Selfie sticks are the latest objects deemed safety hazards by museums
http://english.astroawani.com/lifestyle/selfie-sticks-are-latest-objects-deemed-safety-hazards-museums-53736

Selfie sticks are the latest objects deemed safety hazards by museums  The Washington Post February 11 , 2015 12:41 MYT  The selfie stick has been added to this ban , although it is not yet included on the museum 's website .  WASHINGTON : They may be ubiquitous in New York , but the selfie stick has n't taken over D.C. quite yet .  Several local museums -- including the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and the National Gallery of Art -- have banned the use of the sticks that help visitors shoot self portraits in the galleries . Others may follow .  " We would like to have a policy that covers all museums . It 's much easier that way , " said Linda St. Thomas , spokeswoman for the Smithsonian Institution . If a ban is adopted , it will be posted on the website , she said .  Several Smithsonian units , including the Hirshhorn and the Air and Space Museum , have already decided the sticks are like monopods and tripods and ca n't be used including the Museum of Modern Art in New York , and the Getty Center in Los Angeles , have already banned them .  The National Gallery of Art does n't allow visitors to wear backpacks or carry monopods , tripods and umbrellas ; the selfie stick is a similar object .  " Anything that might swing around , " said spokeswoman Deborah Ziska . " We ask people to check them at the coat room . It 's about safety of the art , and in a crowded situation , safety of visitors . "  The selfie stick has been added to this ban , although it is not yet included on the museum 's website .  Many museums in New York City have banned the poles , which are beloved by many international tourists . There are fewer tourists in general in Washington at this time of year .  " Students are coming for spring break , " St. Thomas said . " Right now we do n't think it 's a problem . "