Turkey wants 'Istanbul' mosque in Cuba: Erdogan
http://www.aquila-style.com/focus-points/turkey-wants-istanbul-mosque-cuba-erdogan/92919/

turkey wants ' istanbul ' mosque in cuba : erdogan  the hirka-i serif , the holy cloak of prophet mohammed on august 20 , 2010 on display durning ramadan at the ottoman era hirka-i serif mosque in istanbul . the mosque was built in 1851 by sultan abdulmecit for the preservation of the hirka-i serif . the mosque holds an important place in the religious folklore of istanbul due to the importance of the holy cloak . afp photo mustafa ozer  turkish president recep tayyip erdogan unveiled his ambitious plan to build a major ottoman-style mosque in cuba , saying it should be similar to a nineteenth century one on the bosphorus in istanbul , the presidency said thursday .  erdogan acknowledged after holding talks with cuban president raul castro in havana that cuban officials had appeared to have already made an agreement with saudi arabia for the construction of a mosque in havana .  but erdogan , who caused astonishment last year by claiming muslims discovered the americas before columbus , said turkey was pressing for an ottoman-style mosque in another city we could build a similar one to ortakoy mosque in another city , if you have promised to others for havana , " erdogan said in the communist island , the second stop of his latin america tour .  the ortakoy mosque , designed by the balyan family of armenian architects , was built in 1853 during the rule of the ottoman sultan abdulmecid i.  the neo-baroque edifice is a familiar sight on the shore near the bosphorus bridge .  erdogan said turkey was not in search of a partner to build the mosque as " our architecture is different from that of saudi arabia . "  " i have provided the cuban officials with all the necessary information .... so far they have not taken a negative approach to it , " he was quoted as saying by the presidential website .  erdogan , a pious muslim who has been in power for more than a decade , stirred controversy late last year by declaring that the americas were discovered by muslims in the 12th century , nearly three centuries before christopher columbus sailed across claim that " columbus mentioned the existence of a mosque on a hill on the cuban coast " and offered to build a mosque at the site mentioned by the genoese explorer .  the president has repeatedly been ridiculed by critics for harking back to turkey 's past to even before the ottoman empire was established in the fourteenth century .