Decade after Hariri murder, Lebanon flounders in Syria's shadow
http://www.aquila-style.com/focus-points/decade-hariri-murder-lebanon-flounders-syrias-shadow/92818/

Decade after Hariri murder , Lebanon flounders in Syria 's shadow  A decade after former prime minister Rafiq Hariri was assassinated , hopes that the fallout from his death would free Lebanon from Syria 's influence have been dashed by the war raging across the border .  A decade after former prime minister Rafiq Hariri was assassinated , hopes that the fallout from his death would free Lebanon from Syria 's influence have been dashed by the war raging across the border .  " Ten years , 100 years , 1,000 years , we will stay faithful to you " declare the billboards going up around Beirut as the country prepares to mark the February 14 , 2005 murder of Hariri .  In the months that followed , a popular movement that accused Damascus of his killing forced Syrian troops out of Lebanon after a 30-year presence .  Many in the country saw the Syrian withdrawal as a chance for Lebanon to shake off the influence of its larger neighbour and its perpetual status as a pawn in wider regional struggles . cause for hope , with Syria 's civil war deepening divisions that emerged after Hariri 's death .  Lebanon is fractured between Hezbollah-led supporters of President Bashar al-Assad and his regional ally Iran , and a camp that backs the Syrian uprising and is allied with Saudi Arabia and the United States .  Hariri had close links to Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia , which vies with Shiite Iran for influence in the Middle East .  After the assassination " Lebanon entered the orbit of Damascus , Tehran and Hezbollah , and this axis continues to prevail , " said Daoud al-Sayegh , a former advisor to Hariri .  The division is at the root of ongoing instability , including a string of bomb attacks that have targeted both sides .  It has also contributed to a political stalemate that has left the country without a president for eight months , the longest such vacuum since the end of the 1975-1990 civil war .  On the country 's borders , the under-equipped Lebanese army is struggling to keep jihadists from Syria at bay , and in the .  " The country has collapsed since Hariri 's assassination , " said a resident of Beirut 's Ain al-Mreisse district , where Hariri and 22 others were killed by a suicide bomber in a car .  Far from bringing together the country and freeing it of Syrian influence , analysts say the decade since Hariri 's death has served to cement the preeminence of the Shiite movement Hezbollah , a key ally of Damascus .  " This murder has had the effect of a coup d'etat , " said Hilal Khashan , political science professor at the American University in Beirut .  Hariri " represented the Saudi project , and with him gone , it 's the Iranian project that has taken over . "  Syria never forgave him  Khashan said Hariri had sought to " transform the country into a symbol of moderation and a safeguard against extremism . "  " He was assassinated before he could do that , " he said .  Nicknamed " Mr Lebanon , " Hariri was known for his patience and " represented a moderate After his murder , extremist Sunnis began to appear " in Lebanon , he said .  Hariri served as prime minister under Syrian influence from 1992 to 1998 and again from 2000 to 2004 .  He was vehemently opposed to Damascus 's imposed extension of president Emile Lahoud 's term in 2004 , but was coerced into voting for it .  Angered by Hariri 's opposition , Syria 's Assad reportedly threatened to " destroy Lebanon on top of his head . "  With the support of Riyadh and his close friend French former president Jacques Chirac , Hariri backed a UN Security Council resolution calling on foreign troops to leave Lebanon .  " The Syrians never forgave him , " Khashan said .  " Hariri put Lebanon on the international map , and that angered them , " added former advisor Sayegh .  In a first for Lebanon , the frequent scene of political assassinations and intrigue , Hariri 's murder is being prosecuted before the Special Tribunal for Lebanon at the Hague .  The court has indicted five Hezbollah members for them over , accusing the tribunal of being an " Israeli-American tool " .  In the months after Hariri 's assassination , the murder was seen as a sort of " founding event for the unity of the country , " according to Fares Souaid , a member of the movement that emerged against the Syrian regime after the ex-premier 's murder .  But " 10 years later , we are seeing the weakening of the state and communities returning back behind their barricades . "  Several events will be held in Beirut to mark the anniversary including a gathering at the site of the attack , where a flame will be lit in his honour , and a prayer at his tomb .  Hariri was often criticised for marrying politics and business and running up huge debts in his reconstruction projects .  But he also attracted investors , many of whom now shy away from Lebanon because of the violence , instability and spillover from the Syrian war that followed his death .  " The Lebanese are unable to free themselves from a situation " said Sayegh.