Financial industry needs high standards of governance ...
http://www.themalaysianinsider.com/malaysia/article/financial-industry-needs-high-standards-of-governance-professionalism-says

bank negara malaysia governor tan sri zeti akhtar aziz says it is important to maintain the values of integrity and ethical conduct in the financial industry . -- the malaysian insider filepic , november 6 , 2015 . the financial industry needs a high standard of governance , professionalism and ethical conduct given its wide and far-reaching impact on most segments of the economy , says bank negara malaysia ( bnm ) governor , tan sri zeti akhtar aziz .  she said while the industry placed a premium on high performing talent , it was equally important to maintain the values of integrity and ethical conduct as these would contribute to sustaining public trust and confidence .  " bnm has not only continued to invest in the development of a sustainable talent pipeline for the financial industry but also ensure a strong regulatory and supervisory oversight of financial institutions , " she said in address at chartered banker conferment ceremony in kuala lumpur today .  zeti was conferred a " life membership of the asian institute of chartered bankers ( aicb ) " , chartered banker institute in the uk at the inaugural ceremony .  she said financial institutions were expected to observe financial and business practices that were sound , responsible and complied with rules and regulations .  " indeed , the regulatory landscape is becoming more complex and this is to be expected given the evolution and maturity of our financial system and its interconnectedness with the rest of the world . "  zeti said in an industry that was fast evolving , the financial services sector needed to be at the frontier of international best practices .  " it has to be a key factor underpinning our efforts to promote the growth , stability and integrity of the financial system . "  malaysia 's first batch of 45 chartered bankers was recognised with the highest banking qualification at the ceremony .  aicb , previously known as the institute of bankers malaysia ( ibbm ) , is the professional body for the banking and financial services industry .  zeti said the repositioning from ibbm to the aicb as a body for professionals in the banking industry increased demands for high quality talent for the banking industry .  " the council of the aicb has an immense task ahead in driving the agenda of professional education and ethical standards , " she said . -- bernama , november 6 , 2015 .  please refrain from nicknames or comments of a racist , sexist , personal , vulgar or derogatory nature , or you may risk being blocked from commenting in our website . we encourage commenters to use their real names as their username . as comments are moderated , they may not appear immediately or even on the same day you posted them . we also reserve the right to delete off-topic comments