Stop appointment of religious teacher in Sarawak rural school ...
http://www.themalaysianinsider.com/malaysia/article/stop-appointment-of-religious-teacher-in-sarawak-rural-school-dayaks-tell-a

the dayak community wants sarawak chief minister tan sri adenan satem to fulfill his promise for more control for locals in the administration of the state 's education . -- the malaysian insider file pic , november 7 , 2015 . the sarawak dayak association ( pedas ) wants the state leadership to intervene in the issue of an islamic religious school teacher from the peninsula being appointed to a school with a majority dayak student population in rural sarikei .  pedas president capt imran colin told the borneo post in a statement that the federal education department should be more sensitive to local sentiments .  " pedas appeals to chief minister tan sri adenan satem to look into the issue to honour his own earlier promise that priority should be given to sarawakians to fill vacant posts in sarawak .  " we also urge that autonomy on education be given back to the state government , " he was quoted as saying .. the controversy began with the announcement that ustaz ruslin che mood from kelantan will begin his posting as principal of on november 9 . he is taking over the post following the retirement of the former principal in march .  dayak community leaders questioned the need to send a principal , and a religious school teacher at that , from the peninsula when there are enough locals who are qualified for the role .  " it 's an insult to the dayaks in particular and sarawak in general , as if there were no local teachers or principals capable of serving in smk sungai paoh .  " sarawak 's rural area is not a ' dumping ground ' for any tom , dick or harry , " parti bansa dayak sarawak baru ( pbdsb ) supreme council member cobbold john was quoted as saying by the borneo post .  he added that a local , or a sarawakian , would better know the local conditions , traditions and customs and thus avoid potential conflict in the management of the school and its students .  " many dayak teaching graduates who could n't find work in the field are forced to work elsewhere . if a dayak be given ? " he said according to the borneo post .  the appointment of ruslin was also slammed online with many taking to social media to criticise the decision with one comment stating " wrong place , wrong person and wrong school " , as the majority of the students in the school are christians . -- november 7 , 2015 .  please refrain from nicknames or comments of a racist , sexist , personal , vulgar or derogatory nature , or you may risk being blocked from commenting in our website . we encourage commenters to use their real names as their username . as comments are moderated , they may not appear immediately or even on the same day you posted them . we also reserve the right to delete off-topic comments