Double Joy to Indonesia - The Jakarta Post
http://www.themalaysianinsider.com/sideviews/article/double-joy-to-indonesia-the-jakarta-post

Double Joy to Indonesia -- The Jakarta Post  It 's a double celebration in Indonesia this week with the nation marking the birth of Prophet Muhammad on Thursday and Christmas , the birth of Jesus Christ , on Friday .  Both are national holidays to let Muslims and Christians , the two largest religious communities in Indonesia , mark the events with excitement as well as solemnity .  The two religions may have a long history of bloody rivalries -- sometimes inevitable when dealing with claims of truth -- but Christians and Muslims have had their share of peaceful coexistence as well . Look no further than Indonesia for evidence .  Indonesia may be the country with the largest Muslim population in the world , but its religious minorities , particularly Christians though also Hindus , that account for about 14% of its 250 million people , live in pockets of the archipelago where sometimes they are the dominant religion . The concept of majority-minority religions is therefore irrelevant in Indonesia .  What is important is that their presence in the country nation , including during the independence struggle in the 1940s and throughout the nation 's birth and development since then , are well recognised .  With the exception of a few religious conflicts during the 70 years of Indonesia 's independence , we can take pride in Indonesia 's record of interfaith relations -- the different religious communities have by and large lived peacefully side by side .  This is a feat many Indonesians may take for granted , but it is widely admired by other countries where tension , rivalry and conflict between religious communities seem to be the norm .  We have to thank Indonesia 's founders for their foresight in laying down the foundations needed for this large and diverse nation to live in peace .  The 1945 Constitution guarantees freedom of religion , and the first of the five tenets of the state ideology Pancasila is " Belief in One God " .  We may be praying differently and have different approaches to truth , but we all worship the same deity . For better or for worse , Indonesians of all big nation .  So , what better way of celebrating the birth of Prophet Muhammad and Jesus Christ , who Muslims also revere as one of their prophets , in the best of Indonesian traditions : Marking them with joy and mutual respect , tolerance and moderation -- the hallmarks of all peace-loving nations . -- The Jakarta Post , December 25 , 2015 .  * This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malaysian Insider .  Please refrain from nicknames or comments of a racist , sexist , personal , vulgar or derogatory nature , or you may risk being blocked from commenting in our website . We encourage commenters to use their real names as their username . As comments are moderated , they may not appear immediately or even on the same day you posted them . We also reserve the right to delete off-topic comments