2016 should be about fighting corruption - Walter Sandosam
http://www.themalaysianinsider.com/sideviews/article/2016-should-be-about-fighting-corruption-walter-sandosam

2016 should be about fighting corruption -- Walter Sandosam  This year has been a bumpy ride both on the political and economic fronts . As a nation we should reflect and look ahead positively .  Noble intentions are many . These need working on daily and in perpetuity as nothing good evolves from negativity and mutual distrust .  Of late , there has been growing intolerance of our diversity on both racial and religious grounds .  On the economic front , the prices of our main export commodities have fallen , affecting the ringgit and cost of living .  If that is not enough , national security is being threatened by extremism and radicalism from external elements .  Casting aspersions on any single segment of the population based on religious , political , economic or social leanings do not help in fostering unity .  They , in fact , create mistrust and more headaches for the authorities .  Perceived credibility deficits and truth deficits are affecting the psyche of the nation . When trust is low , everyone acts  We as members of civil society have a role to play in building a long-term culture of integrity and good governance .  These are the building blocks of trust . Each member of the community has to take responsibility in the building of trust .  High levels of ethics , governance and integrity are components that need to be emphasised to ensure a corrupt-free country . Corruption is a scourge which has to be overcome or it will consume us . While greed is insatiable , corruption , on the other hand , is a mindset .  Without integrity , corruption thrives . This is the reality , to which some are oblivious .  To build trust , we must strive to address the divisions that exist in society , and which seem to be growing wider over time .  These include not only the familiar ethnic , religious and territorial divisions but also divisions in social class and ideology .  One can not build a high-trust society if we continue to be polarised in so many ways . It can not happen if and groupings .  All institutions of governance have a role to play and they must be seen to be playing it effectively in the in interests of the wider public and not entrenched self-serving pressure groups .  Public perception must not be compromised .  As a nation , we have to stand together and be sure of ourselves and not be swayed by negative emotions , especially those which touch on racial and religious diversity . Religious values have to be inculcated continuously at all levels  Going into 2016 , we should celebrate our differences . Do not play up non-existent threats and be afraid of shadows .  The law is there to protect and the police should act fairly and firmly based on the rule of law .  We should focus our efforts on initiatives to building a more harmonious and mature Malaysia , which is able to take all challenges in its stride .  Good governance and strong positive values related to ethics , morality and integrity are the keys to national development . We have to internalise these values to be It is a monumental task which all should take responsibility for and be accountable . It must be our New Year resolution for 2016. -- December 31 , 2015 .  * Walter Sandosam reads The Malaysian Insider .  * This is the personal opinion of the writer or publication and does not necessarily represent the views of The Malaysian Insider .  Please refrain from nicknames or comments of a racist , sexist , personal , vulgar or derogatory nature , or you may risk being blocked from commenting in our website . We encourage commenters to use their real names as their username . As comments are moderated , they may not appear immediately or even on the same day you posted them . We also reserve the right to delete off-topic comments