Where Mormonism meets Scientology
http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/damianthompson/100169512/where-mormonism-meets-scientology/

Damian Thompson is Editor of Telegraph Blogs and a columnist for the Daily Telegraph . He was once described by The Church Times as a " blood-crazed ferret " . He is on Twitter as HolySmoke . His latest book is The Fix : How addiction is taking over your world . He also writes about classical music for The Spectator .  Where Mormonism meets Scientology  We can take it for granted that Tom Cruise -- whose divorce proceedings are already such a catastrophe for Scientology -- will never talk in public about Xenu . The existence of this intergalactic emperor , who flourished c 75,000,000 BC , was top secret until the Church 's enemies took to the internet . Advice to journalists : if you ask Cruise about Xenu , the doors of Hollywood ( where the Church wields immense influence ) will slam in your face .  On the other hand , it 's safe to ask any Scientologist about Kolob . This is the star , or possibly planet , that is closest to the throne of God . Astronomers as the inspiration for the planet Kobol in Battlestar Galactica .  Why is it safe to ask Cruise about Kolob ? Because it 's Mormon , not Scientologist : it appears in The Book of Abraham , " translated " from Egyptian papyri by Joseph Smith , the founder of Mormonism . I use inverted commas because Smith could n't read Egyptian . The papyri were funerary texts .  The person you must n't ask about Kolob is Mitt Romney . The teaching is n't a secret , but Latter-day Saints are n't keen to discuss it . These days they stress their similarity with Christianity , and there 's no Kolob in the Gospels .  Admittedly , from a secular point of view , eating bread in the belief that it 's the body of a **25;184;TOOLONG who rose from the dead is as bizarre as hooking yourself up to an E-meter , like Scientologists , or baptising the dead , like Mormons . Yet there are striking similarities between the sects founded by Joseph Smith and L Ron Hubbard . These brilliant mavericks used popular culture some esoteric details for senior initiates .  Smith invented a journey by ancient Hebrews to America -- a typical fantasy of the time -- and dabbled in the occult . Hubbard mined the seam of mid-20th-century American science fiction , and also devised a brain-cleansing technique called Dianetics that was supposed to produce perfect recall . It failed hilariously .  Critics accused Smith and Hubbard of telling porkies . The former 's interpretation of the Egyptian papyri , which he encountered in a travelling mummy exhibition , is plain embarrassing . As for Hubbard , his war service was a work of the imagination to rival the science fiction he wrote before he discovered religion and its tax-exempt status . Both organisations are extremely interested in money , and very good at acquiring it .  The two prophets were heartily interested in the opposite sex : Smith acquired some 33 wives , while Hubbard encouraged teenage girl " officers " to wear hot pants .  Also , both religions went down the paramilitary route . We 've read this week about the " Sea Org " that to join ( a claim denied by the Church ) . But that 's nothing compared with the Mormon militia which fought in the Mexican-American war . Later , Mormon " avenging angels " were implicated in blood-curdling murders after they moved to Utah .  The Latter-day Saints cleaned up their act . But they were the Scientologists of their day -- and they 're still evasive enough for the public to make the subliminal connection .  That 's why Mitt Romney , who dresses like a Mormon but flashes a Scientologist 's smile , must be worried by the Cruise-Holmes divorce . This year of all years , he does n't want the word " cult " splashed all over the front pages .  Why are we paying for agitprop ?  The BBC 's new director-general , George Entwistle , is a former editor of Newsnight . I wonder if he knows how much damage is being done to its reputation by Paul Mason , its economics editor ? Mason was in the Guardian on Monday , sucking up to student protesters . In the words sort of Lefty who rants about the ' end of the neoliberal experiment ' between interviews with dreadlocked , dope-smoking hippies squatting in some Arab oil trader 's Chelsea townhouse " . George , if you think this man is impartial , why not go the whole hog and give Polly Toynbee her old job back as the Beeb 's social affairs editor ?  Hattie : do n't mention her size  Eric Sykes , who died this week , was one of the gentlemen of comedy . His kindness was on display in an interview he gave about Hattie Jacques , who played his sister on television . " Hat was n't a small woman , " he said , " but we never mentioned her size . "  She was indeed a large lass -- married , improbably , to John Le Mesurier . Fat ladies were one of the comic obsessions of the seaside-postcard era , perhaps because they were rare . That 's less true today , when coffee shops encourage women to eat " muffins " ( ie , high-density lumps of cake ) a Starbucks , no one would notice her girth .  Not that I 'm preaching , you understand . In these troubled times , why should n't the fairer sex seek solace in sponge ?  A whiff of Vichy in the Synod  At the time of writing , I do not know whether the Church of England 's General Synod has voted to ordain women bishops outright , to adopt some risible compromise , or to prolong the agony for a few more years . Agony of boredom , that is . Let me save you the trouble of following the proceedings with a cut-out-'n ' -keep guide to this tedious debate . You need to know just two things .  First , there 's overwhelming support in the pews for women bishops . Second , the Anglo-Catholic " traditionalists " who want to stay in the Church of England behind some sort of firewall are deluded . Having turned down the Pope 's offer of reunion with Rome , the most they can hope for is a playpen inside a wider liberal Protestant denomination . As believe that they can stay untainted by the changes . Not to be rude , but perhaps they should think of organising a pilgrimage to Marshal P ? tain 's grave .  Another windbag sounds off  I 've just made a splendid addition to my collection of Great Left-wing Bores of Today . Step forward " economist " Umair Haque , a self-regarding young windbag who writes for the Harvard Business Review . Here 's a sample of his witterings : " If this so-called debate over globalisation often feels a little tedious , trivial , and about as in touch with reality as Kim Kardashian is with Kibare , it 's because it 's a status quo-preserving debate . " And here 's one of his Tweets : " It 's kinda LOL how our national discussion is like competing determinisms sock-puppeting civilization to death . Or not so LOL . " Apparently he does n't like being teased online , so I hope you 'll all respect that . He is @umairh on Twitter .