Why the creation of a 'European' identity necessitates anti-semitism ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2169606/Why-creation-European-identity-necessitates-anti-semitism-Brussels.html

why the creation of a ' european ' identity necessitates unashamed antisemitism from brussels  day by day , minute by minute , speech by speech and word by word , the united kingdom independence party looks and sounds increasingly like the conservative party in exile .  their policies cover the economy , law and order , education , defence , patriotism , christianity , immigration , over-regulation , tax reduction , and their support for private enterprise , traditional marriage and the family , and ( of course ) the thorny question of the european union . there is no longer any credible assertion that ukip is a ' single-issue ' protest party or pressure group .  and now , just as we have our long-held suspicions confirmed that the foreign office is essentially arabist and ever so subtly anti-israel , with government officials outrageously asserting that benjamin netanyahu uses ' the incitement issue as a delaying tactic in peace talks ' , we hear that nigel farage is confronting the ' strong bias ' against israel that exists within the european union . that ?  ' there is within the european institutions a very strong anti-israel bias ' , mr farage said . ' i would almost say -- and i am bit nervous of saying this -- there 's almost a new trendy form of anti-semitism creeping in ...  ' i could show you , within the last three months , transcripts of several dozen speeches in the european parliament . there is a fundamental dislike of israel . but it 's more than that . and we find that objectionable and worrying . '  and , as ever , he and his party are united in putting their votes where their convictions lie : they are opposing calls to suspend the eu 's trade agreements with israel , and they remain highly critical of eu aid to the palestinian authority , some of which is routinely filtered to schools to teach the next generation about islam , jihad , martyrdom , and how to purify their land of the evil zionist jews .  payment : the eu gives hundreds of millions of pounds a year to the palestinian about in the european parliament ' , farage said , ' is that we object to 300 million euros a year being given to the pa -- the sum is lower this year , it was up to 500 million a couple of years ago -- with , from what i can see , absolutely no check or proper audit of how that money is disbursed or where it is being spent .  ' i do n't think you should give money to anybody until you can absolutely guarantee that it is not falling into the wrong hands . the wrong hands could be fraud or , in the case we are discussing here , some of the groups who behaved in a very unpeaceful manner . '  i like ' unpeaceful ' . it is n't a word , but it 's rather more evocative than belligerent , militant , violent or war-like . it reminds us that there are very many peaceable palestinians who are victims in this struggle , made passively to suffer at the hands of their own government . yet the eu turns a to perpetuate its love-in with hamas and the palestinian national authority .  share this article  share  farage adds : ' i almost feel that the reason the eu gives this money is because it wants to appear to do the very opposite of everything america wants . '  the ukip leader is not the first person to observe that the eu manifests anti-american proclivities . in a westminster hall debate on 29th march 2000 , michael fabricant mp said : " according to president chirac : ' the object of the european defence identity is to contain the united states . ' that is some quote -- quite extraordinary . speaking in paris in december , chancellor schr ? der echoed president chirac 's comment , stating : ' whining about us dominance is not good enough . we have to act . ' such anti-american rhetoric may go down well with continental audiences but it certainly does not reflect british interests . "  such comments lend serious weight to the observation made almost 20 years ago by bernard connolly in his book ' the rotten jacques delors ' wants to create a new state , " europe " , and to create with it a new " nation " based on some supposed cultural identity that can be defined only in terms of what it is not , what it is antithetical to ' .  and so the eu is pathologically anti-american , anti-anglo-saxon , anti-capitalism , anti-state , anti-individualist and anti-israel ; the logical corollary of which is that it is pro the antithesis or converse of each , hence the rationale for pouring millions of euros of aid into gaza and the west bank .  farage says of this : ' i understand why israel may be prone to deep concern when there are neighbouring states which publicly say they want to obliterate them from the face of the earth . '  he evidently knows his history . he fully understands how sovereignty can be negated and national identity undermined .  for the political dream of palestine to be realised , israel must cease to be . neither can agree to compromised borders , and the ' two-state solution ' status of jerusalem . we all desire peace in the middle east . we all long to see an end to the suffering of the children of abraham -- both arabs and jews . but the eu 's latent or blatant anti-semitism and facile understanding of the theo-political complexities will only make matters worse . thank god there 's one person who dares to speak out .