Chantelle Houghton and Alex Reid FINALLY name their baby Dolly
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2177984/Chantelle-Houghton-Alex-Reid-FINALLY-baby-Dolly.html

but five weeks after their daughter was born , chantelle houghton and alex reid finally revealed her name .  the former glamour model , 28 , said they had thought of dolly early in her pregnancy , but had gone through many other names since .  our little dolly : chantelle houghton has revealed she and alex reid have finally chosen a name for their little girl  she wrote in her new ! magazine column : ' she 's called dolly . it 's actually the original name that alex and i liked in the very beginning and we 've gone back to it . '  chantelle also revealed she had stopped breast-feeding after going on super-strength painkillers due to a dental procedure which has put her jaw out of line .  she explained : ' i had root canal work done years ago and never went back to have it off . ( the dentist ) said he could either rebuild it or take it out ...  ' the pain is unreal . i ca n't shut my jaw and baby bliss : chantelle and alex enjoyed their first post-baby night out on friday  happy together : chantelle denied the couple were sleeping in separate beds , but admitted they had n't had sex in weeks  meanwhile , the star hit out at reports she and alex were sleeping in separate beds .  although she admitted she was ' hurt and humiliated ' by photos of a drag queen trying to grope her fianc ? at his gig earlier this month , she insisted they were still happy .  she said : ' i admit we do have issues , but i 'm definitely not splitting up with him . one said that we sleep in separate beds and i refuse to cuddle him .  read chantelle 's full column in the new issue of new ! magazine , on sale now  ' he actually moans that our bed is uncomfortable and even told me to stop cuddling him the other day . it also said i 'm denying him sex , but i think any woman that jumps into bed with her fella less '  the celebrity big brother star 's ' hurt ' over alex being accosted in a bar comes after a difficult few months for the couple , who have been dating for 15 months .  a few weeks before their daughter was born , chantelle briefly moved out of their essex home after an argument .  in an interview last month , alex claimed a majority of their problems stem from chantelle 's insecurity , after she reacted with fury to him discussing his ex katie price in an interview and exchanging private , but innocent messages with her former prot ? g ? e amy willerton on twitter .  dubbing chantelle 's reaction over the ' willerton situation ... ridiculous ' , he also described her response to his katie interview questions as ' upsetting ' .  agony ! chantelle , pictured at a dentist 's last week , is suffering from dental problems