Gossard launch gravity-defying minimalist bra for bigger-busted ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-2177584/Gossard-launch-gravity-defying-minimalist-bra-bigger-busted-women.html

when it comes to lingerie , women with a more ample bosom have long been forced to choose between support and sex appeal .  however , one manufacturer is hoping to consign those days to history -- with underwear that makes the rather ambitious pledge to ' challenge the laws of gravity ' .  wonderbra makers gossard have invented a bra that claims to combine structure , comfort and glamour for customers with cup sizes dd to g.  gravity-defying : the new gossard glossies bras have been moulded to embrace fuller cup sizes without using heavyweight material and are priced at ? 26  unique : the glossard moulded bra has a hidden wire for extra support and a double layered wing  according to research , the average bust size has increased from 34b in 1996 to 36d today , yet the range of bigger bras has lagged behind .  in response , gossard have created plus-sized glossies -- a lightweight range which they claim uses ' unique moulding technology to embrace fuller cup sizes ' .  head designer stacey lindsay the smaller sizes , but have sacrificed style to deliver the much-needed support .  ' our team has worked relentlessly to find a way to make it possible to offer our most minimalist and sheer bra for our bigger-breasted customers . '  the bras , part of the brand 's autumn-winter line , will cost ? 26 and be available in black , white , mocha and nude .  the product has seamless inner ' secret sling ' which gives extra lift and projection without using heavyweight material.it also has a hidden wire for extra support , a double layered wing to provide an anchored position and balanced support system .  gossard will launch their new range with sizes ranging from d to gg as part of their autumn winter collection , along with their standard a-d cup sizes .  the bras were trialled by plus-size women who each wore the bra for 50 hours each . the average bra size for women in the uk has expanded from 34b to 36d in recent years , however the selection of bras to fit these cup sizes bra designers have stumbled when faced with the larger cup sizes , and this has meant less attractive lingerie for ladies with a fuller figure , ' says gossard head designer stacey lindsay .  ' historically bigger sizes have been based on the smaller sizes , but have sacrificed style to deliver the much-needed support .  extra lift : the glossies moulded bra , in cup size dd-g will be available in black , white , mocha and nude  ' our team has worked relentlessly to find a way to make it possible to offer our most minimalist and sheer bra for our bigger-breasted customers .  ' it was a huge challenge , and we were pioneering never-tried before techniques . but we 're now 100 per cent satisfied we 've developed a design that stays true to the core cup sized bra , without compromising on style , comfort or fit . '  the bra manufacturer is famous for it 's sexy campaigns , which includes a controversial advert featuring model sophie anderton which was launched in 1996 with the strapline ' who said a  high profile campaign : sophie anderton was nicknamed the ' girl in the grass ' thanks to this gossard billboard