Dark Knight Colorado: Batman massacre claims its 13th victim ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2180505/Dark-Knight-Colorado-Batman-massacre-claims-13th-victim-Heartbreak-pregnant-survivor-year-old-killed-shooting-suffers-tragic-miscarriage.html

the dark knight massacre gunman james holmes has claimed his 13th victim after it was announced that pregnant survivor ashley moser suffered a tragic miscarriage .  ashley moser was eight weeks pregnant when holmes burst into an aurora , colorado cinema theater on july 20th and opened fire killing 12 people and injuring 58 others .  losing her baby while undergoing surgery for her wounds , the sad news comes eight days after her six-year-old daughter veronica moser was killed by 24-year-old holmes at the century 16 theater .  scroll down for video  ashley moser , 25 , ( left ) has suffered a miscarriage while undergoing surgery at aurora medical center in colorado . she is pictured here with the father of the child jamison toews  the family of 25-year-old ashley revealed their latest loss in a statement on saturday evening from aurora medical center , where ashley is receiving treatment for injuries to her neck and abdomen .  ' ashley moser is recovering from an additional surgery she had this morning , ' said the statement .  ' miscarriage .  ' we want to send a special thank you to the courageous heroes of law enforcement , other first responders , paramedics , and doctors and nurses who have all gone beyond the call-of-duty in caring for our daughter , granddaughter and all of the other victims of this tragic event .  ' our sincere appreciation goes out to all of those who have been sending well-wishes , prayers and good thoughts to ashley . her lifetime of care will be a long road .  ' for those who wish to donate , please go to any wells fargo bank and request the ' donation account for ashley and veronica moser ' .  tragic : veronica moser-sullivan was the youngest victim of james holmes , who attacked a colorado cinema . her mother ashley moser has suffered a miscarriage eight days after her daughters death  share this article  share  the owner of the church said the company told him it would provide financial backing to all victims ' families by paying any funeral expenses not covered by the crime victims ' compensation shirley wygal , turned down the offer and said the victims advocate fund covered all expenses .  tears : relatives and friends of victim matt mcquinn mourn at the cemetery after his funeral on saturday  respects : mcquinn died protecting his girlfriend , who escaped with a shot wound to her knee  holmes is due back in court on monday where he will be formally charged with 12 counts of first-degree murder . it is not known if he will face further charges for the death of ashley 's unborn child .  tragically , just days ago , ashley 's boyfriend of two years jamison toews shared with cbs news in denver the ultrasound of their unborn child , who had survived the shootings .  he told them that the scan , which was taken on the day of the shooting showed everything to be fine .  toews spoke of the night that holmes burst into the theater and opened fire ont he unwitting audience members , there to witness the third part of the batman series of films starring christian bale .  ' , right in front of me and she just feel right back down , ' said toews .  he also described the harrowing moment he saw veronica had been shot too .  tribute : the crosses erected near the site of the massacre in memory of james holmes 's 12 victims  victims : a dozen crosses were put up in aurora , colorado as makeshift memorials to the victims of the shooting in the movie theatre  ' i saw what you never want to see and it was veronica 's lifeless body lying there , ' said toews .  ashley moser , 25 , was hit in the abdomen and twice in the throat when ' demonic ' james holmes opened fire during a midnight premiere of the film , the dark knight rises , in colorado .  she was sitting next to her six-year-old daughter , veronica moser-sullivan , who was one of 12 people killed by holmes .  ms moser 's brother , robert sierra , told the mail before today 's tragic news : ' i do n't know how , told she had lost it and today it 's ok . it 's a miracle as she was shot in the stomach . '  ' killer ' : james holmes is accused of shooting 12 people dead and injuring 58 more during a movie screening  arrested : holmes , pictured in a photograph from his time as a camp counselor , will appear in court again on monday  it has been claimed that the breakup of a relationship could have sent holmes over the edge -- the first sign yet of a possible motive .  mr sierra , 32 , described veronica as an ' angel who was ripped away from us for no reason ' . he said : ' veronica wanted to be a princess , everybody loved her . her laughter was infectious , when she laughed everybody laughed .  ' she was only young but she had ambitions and goals , she wanted to go to college .  ' she would have so much fun playing , all you would hear through the house was her laughing and giggling . ' , according to relatives , she burst into tears and screamed : ' i want to die . '  ' all she 's asking about , of course , is her daughter , ' said annie dalton , who is ashley moser 's aunt .  veronica moser , 6 , was killed and her mother ashley was shot three times  innocent : veronica 's mother ashley , 25 , was critically injured and is undergoing surgery for her wounds . she will likely suffer some degree of paralysis and she was recently accepted into law school  ' she took it very badly , ' jean moser , ashley moser 's grandmother , told the boston herald . ' i know she was shocked .  ' ( veronica ) was a very delightful , lively little girl . she was very engaging . it 's a terrible , terrible tragedy . '  veronica was to start learning swimming lessons on tuesday , said dalton . ' she was excited about life as she should be . she 's a six-year-old girl . this is just a 's surreal . it 's just surreal . '  salute : airman 1st class andrew zayatz salutes a cross with the name of air force member jesse childress at the memorial site for the people killed by the gunman  mr sierra added : ' we called her pumpkin since she was young , because she wore a pumpkin outfit to her first halloween party and it just stuck .  ' veronica loved to dance , she loved to swim . she loved fairies and unicorns and she used to love dressing up and messing around in her mum 's high heels . '  aurora police chief dan oates indicated one motive for holmes to carry out what colorado governor john hickenlooper called a ' diabolical , demonic ' act . mr oates said : ' i 've heard one morsel of information about a relationship that may or may not be true . '  holmes , 24 , is being held in the arapahoe county jail on a charge of first-degree murder , where he reportedly has shown no remorse and ' thinks he is in to have spent months planning his attack with ' calculation and deliberation ' .  police say he ordered 6,000 rounds of ammunition and bought four guns before donning riot gear and a gas mask and opening fire at the century 16 cinema in aurora shortly after midnight on friday morning .  massacre : 12 people were left dead and 58 injured in the colorado shooting  crime scene : bystanders gathered at the site of the shooting in the aftermath  the massacre could have been even worse . his a-15 assault rifle jammed , meaning he had to switch to a less powerful weapon .  asked about holmes , mr sierra was barely able to contain his anger . he said : ' even if he got the death sentence it would not bring veronica back . we will miss her so much .  ' i have nothing good to say about him . they should have shot him on sight . who would want to keep somebody alive who does something like that ? '  investigators are continuing to examine holmes 's apartment , police .  he had hoped to lure officers to his flat by setting a timer to play loud music as he was carrying out his rampage .  a makeshift memorial is shown behind the century 16 movie theatre where a gunman attacked movie goers during a screening of the dark knight rises