'It made me feel incredibly proud of him'
http://www.portsmouth.co.uk/news/it-made-me-feel-incredibly-proud-of-him-1-4107193

' It made me feel incredibly proud of him '  DISCOVERY David Neale , who has found out about his fathers life as a motorbike racer . Picture : Steve Reid ( 122494-900 )  Chris Owen  All it took was a click of the mouse for David Neale to find the father he never knew .  He was aware his dad had been an amateur international road racing motorcyclist , but that was about it .  MEAN MACHINE John Bacon in action  What he never knew was the high level at which he raced , the esteem in which he was held by the biking community and the man behind the leathers and helmet .  It was a frustration which meant the life of the 47-year-old was never really complete .  But that ended earlier this year when an aunt and cousin Googled his dad 's name and up popped a picture and information about him .  ' It was the first time I 'd ever had any concrete details about him . I 'd searched the internet never had any luck , ' says David .  And that random search has now led to David and his sister Linda being invited as guests of honour to a moving ceremony at the spot where their father died .  John Bacon was just 31 when he died in a crash during a road race at Tubbergen in the Netherlands in 1965 . His sister Linda was two and their mother , Jean , was six months pregnant with David .  That post on the vintagebike.co.uk website was compiled by Arthur West , an old racing friend and it enabled David to start piecing together details of his father 's life .  His discovered that , riding a Norton , he finished 12th out of 41 in the lightweight bike class of the 1960 Isle of Man TT . He even beat the legendary Mike Hailwood who went on to become one of the few men to compete at Grand Prix level on motorcycles and in cars .  ' It was his first and only Isle of Man TT and the record shows that over the the course , his average speed was 76.19mph , ' says David , who took the name of his mother 's second husband when she remarried after his father 's death .  ' As a result of that website posting , Linda asked for anyone who knew our father to contact us . We were anxious to find out at much as we could about him because my sister was only two and I was three months off being born when he died .  ' And out of the blue a chap called Richard Morley replied . He was my dad 's best friend . They 'd grown up together in Woking . They both started on cycle speedway for the Old Woking Jets before eventually taking up club , national and international motorcycle racing . ' Richard went on to become the managing director of Lotus Europe .  That contact with Richard led to an invitation from Holland . It came from the Tubbergen Motorcycle Racing Club which wanted David , his sister and Richard to be their guests in May at the unveiling of a memorial the annual Tubbergen road race .  And one of the names on that memorial belongs to their father .  David , who lives with his wife Emma and their two children at Zeus Lane , Crookhorn , and is a long-distance lorry driver , adds : ' We 'd never met them before but they made us feel so welcome . We were treated like royalty .  ' The new track is only about 1.5km long and racing now takes place around what is really an industrial estate .  ' But when my father raced in 1965 the circuit was 10km long . The race went through three towns and in its heyday 60,000 spectators would watch the race .  ' It was the second most-watched motorcycling event behind Assen where the Dutch TT is held . The road racing stopped in the 1980s because of the traffic gridlock caused in surrounding town . '  All the family and friends of those killed at the circuit between 1954 and 1972 were taken on a coach tour of the circuit and shown the exact spot where , ' says David . ' About 100 vintage motorcycles and their riders became guards of honour for the coach which stopped for a minute 's silence as we passed the spot where each of the five died .  ' When it stopped where my dad died , my sister and I got off the coach and looked at the two roses we had planted there earlier -- one orange , one white -- that had been intertwined to represent our mother and father being at one again .  ' At that point the guard of honour bikes went past with some riders nodding , some saluting . It was an extremely poignant moment for both of us . '  But the links with his dashing father did not end there .  At the end of the day one of the Dutch organisers of the event asked David if there was anything else he would like to do .  David adds with a gleam in his eye : ' I told him what it was and he said he would get it arranged . ' The ' He came back , passed me a helmet and leather jacket and I was taken as a pillion passenger on a Suzuki 1000cc bike around the old Tubbergen road race circuit .  ' We got up to some incredible speeds and I felt the thrill my father would have experienced .  ' I had walked in my father 's footsteps and it made me feel incredibly proud of him . '  ' It was going to be his last race '  John Bacon had retired from competitive riding when he died on the Tubbergen road circuit in Holland .  David says : ' He wanted to ride one last time . It was going to be his last race . He had a two-year-old daughter and I was on the way . It turned out to be his very last ride , but not in the way he wanted . '  John , who did his national service in the RAF , was a dental technician who moved to work in Switzerland to fund his motorcycling exploits .  David says boyhood friend Richard  ' Apparently he even came up with the forerunner of Steradent to clean dentures . '  This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the Editor by clicking here .  If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the IPSO by clicking here .  Portsmouth News provides news , events and sport features from the Portsmouth area . For the best up to date information relating to Portsmouth and the surrounding areas visit us at Portsmouth News regularly or bookmark this page .  For you to enjoy all the features of this website Portsmouth News requires permission to use cookies .  Find Out More ?  What is a Cookie ?  What is a Flash Cookie ?  Can I opt out of receiving Cookies ?  About our Cookies  Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( Internet Explorer , Firefox , Chrome etc ) your electronic device .  This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player ( it is also called a Local Shared Object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  Yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  However , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  The types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  Revenue Science ?  A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . To opt out of this type of website by clicking here .  Google Ads ?  Our sites contain advertising from Google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Digital Analytics ?  This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . This data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  Dart for Publishers ?  This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  ComScore ?  ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . Any data collected is anonymous statistical .  Local Targeting ?  Our Classified websites ( Photos , Motors , Jobs and Property Today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . These cookies store no personally identifiable information .  Grapeshot ?  We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  Subscriptions Online ?  Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  Add This ?  Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .