Ray Mears helicopter crash: Survival expert reveals why everyone ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2180270/Ray-Mears-helicopter-crash-Survival-expert-reveals-learn-lifesavers.html

i needed all my first aid skills when our helicopter crashed in the middle of nowhere : ray mears on why everyone should learn to be lifesavers  ray mears is on his back , on the floor , pretending to be unconscious . a young woman stands over the 6ft bbc presenter and starts to manipulate his arms and then his legs .  ' please sir , slap my face , ' she says , gently moving his left arm so it is stretched out in front of him , and folding his right over his body so the back of his hand rests on his cheek . ' bend my leg , and roll me over , ' she continues . in a fluid movement she rolls his body on to his left side .  it is a surreal scene -- and everyone giggles . but the purpose of the activity is utterly serious . the woman , stephanie , 23 , is a volunteer for st john ambulance and the bizarre -- but undoubtedly memorable -- sentences are her unique way of safely .  life-saver : survival specialist ray mears found himself calling on his first-aid skills after the helicopter he was travelling in crashed  of course , first aid never involves actually slapping faces but ' having a handy phrase that sticks in your mind helps you work under pressure , ' says stephanie . ' and it 's far more likely to come to you if it 's funny or just a bit weird . '  this basic manoeuvre forms a cornerstone of first-aid training : it keeps an unconscious casualty in a stable position , prevents their tongue from blocking their airway and can prevent fluids from choking them .  survival expert ray , who has practised first aid since he was a teenager , is having a refresher lesson , courtesy of three st john ambulance youth workers .  the aim of the rise project -- the name stands for respect , inspire , support and empower -- is to teach teenagers first-aid skills so they can go on to train other young people . ray , 48 , is here today in his awards 2012 .  the lives of others : ray mears practises with teenagers from st john ambulance in eastbourne  mail on sunday readers still have a week left to nominate their first-aid heroes and the winners will be honoured at the lancaster london hotel in november . the awards , launched last year in association with the mail on sunday , seek to highlight those instances where first aid meant the difference between life and death .  evidence suggests that up to 150,000 people die each year in circumstances where first aid could have helped . almost 900 people a year choke to death , while 29,000 die from heart attacks . it is a subject ray is passionate about . he says : ' just knowing the basics can save a life . '  he recalls the dramatic moment seven years ago when he was involved in a helicopter crash . if it had not been for his first-aid skills , the outcome could have been far more serious . he was filming ray mears bushcraft for the bbc , exploring the dramatic landscape of wyoming cameraman and the pilot were flying over a ridge to capture a shot of man riding a horse . but , heading downwind , the pilot had insufficient power to maintain height .  in safe hands : ray mears may be skilled in the wild but after enduring a helicopter accident , he is happy to receive refresher first-aid training from young st john ambulance volunteers  the helicopter hit the ground . ' i went into the brace position and just hoped for the best , ' recalls ray . ' i remember hearing the deafening sound of metal crunching , then everything went eerily silent .  ' i clambered out of a small opening thinking i was the only survivor , but i soon heard the cameraman shout , " i 'm alive but my legs are broken " from inside the helicopter . '  amazingly , ray had suffered only severe bruising so ran to his colleague 's aid . ' he was in a bad way . his leg was so broken it formed a right-angle out to the side , ' says ray harness that was keeping the cameraman in the helicopter and , thanks to the adrenaline pumping around his body , he lifted the 6ft 2in man to safety .  ' first aid can just be about being there for someone , which can prevent them going into shock , ' he says . ' i slowly moved the leg into a straighter position and made a makeshift splint out of gaffer tape and a camping mat . '  it soon became apparent that every passenger had survived . once everyone was away from the helicopter , ray and the director noted down a list of the injuries .  ' i wanted to make sure that when i rang the emergency services , i would n't forget anything in a panic , ' says ray . ' i wanted paramedics to be prepared because we came down in the middle of nowhere . i know most people are n't going to be in a helicopter crash but the same rules apply in everyday situations . '  indeed , the winners of the special sja guy evans award at the mail on sunday -- were teenagers michael purvis and james mavin , who came to the rescue of a man who had collapsed on the street . realising he was not breathing , the pair gave him cardiopulmonary resuscitation . paramedics said the boys ' actions ultimately saved the man 's life .  ray says : ' to those who do not know basic first aid , think of your friends and family -- you never know when you are going to be that difference , that reason why a person does n't die . it just makes sense . '