Researchers consider planting cypress trees to help halt spread of ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/spain/9475780/Researchers-consider-planting-cypress-trees-to-help-halt-spread-of-Spanish-wildfires.html

they are investigating why a copse of cypress trees was the only vegetation to have survived a wildfire that destroyed acres of forest on hills around the valencian town of andilla last month .  aerial images show the devastation of about 50,000 acres except for a vibrant patch of green where a group of around 1,000 cypress trees stand tall .  despite the fact that the trees were planted close together , their branches intertwined , the flames did not advance through them , and only 12 trees out of 958 showed signs of fire damage , while all around the native tree species such as pine , holm oak , juniper and gorse , were destroyed .  the mystery and what it might mean has sparked a debate over forest regeneration with some experts advising that cypresses should be planted in areas prone to wildfires to act as a natural firebreak .  " the trees acted like a screen against the fire , " bernabe moya , the director of forestry for the valencia region told spanish daily el pais . " lines of cypresses to reinforce the firebreaks in hard to-reach areas . "  other supporters suggested the trees could be planted to form a screen around inhabited areas .  morocco has sent two water-bombing planes to help spain battle a stubborn 10-day-old wildfire that has blazed its way through the canary island of la gomera .  this year 's summer forest fire season is one of the worst in recent memory prompting the search for innovative solutions .  other experts , however , remain sceptical about the powers of cypress trees .  raul de la calle , of the official association of technical forest engineers , said : " we will have to find out what really happened . the cypress is not a very combustible species , but to the point that it does n't burn at all ? there is no such thing as a fireproof tree . "  and environmentalists warn of other dangers of introducing non-native species on a widespread scale .  " introducing a species that is n't native is a mistake , " said nicolas lopez , an and endangers the rest of the flora . "  a symposium to discuss the phenomenon of " the fireproof trees " has been organised for september .