Why a castle is for keeps
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/property/9474869/Why-a-castle-is-for-keeps.html

who would have thought you could buy a castle for ? 550,000 ? but you can . inverquharity castle has everything you could possibly want in the way of castle living : fascinating history dating from the 1440s ; walls 8ft thick ; a vaulted dining room and great hall ; a crenellated parapet ; an iron yett ( or gate ) to keep marauders out ; and staggering views from the battlements .  sandy and alisoun grant bought inverquharity in 1970 , after conducting an exhaustive search of all the tower houses of scotland while on leave from west africa , where sandy worked as a lawyer .  " it was built for the ogilvy family who had it for 14 generations , " says alisoun . in 1444 , james ii of scotland granted permission to install a yett -- something given only to his most trusted subjects .  " they moved out , and by the 1800s old maps show it was part of a flourishing farm . " she explains all this as she removes a dripping hat after being pokes out of the landscape at the entrance to the angus glens . it is miles from anywhere : 20 from dundee , 33 from perth . it took three years to restore , with the help of an architectural specialist in historic buildings .  related articles  " people say , oh you are terribly brave , but it is n't brave if you are doing something you want to do , " says alisoun . " we did n't want a bijou little home . we could have gone uncompromisingly contemporary , which would have been spectacular , or concentrated on heavy oak . but we like late 17th-century furniture , which has a kind of subdued flamboyance . "  they are selling as they find the turnpike stairs too hazardous as they grow older , and viewings have been frenetic . alisoun has already shown around 19 interested buyers and has more to come . everyone loves the idea of living in a castle , especially one like this , which is n't too large and has four bedrooms .  " the building blossoms and party , " she says . " we used to have one every twelfth night . we had an enormous christmas tree in the great hall and fires roaring in the fireplaces . " knight frank ( knightfrank.co.uk ; 0131 222 9600 ) is handling the sale .  owning a castle carries responsibilities to restore , maintain and entertain like no other kind of property . they always have protected status as listed buildings or ancient monuments . louise burness , a daughter of the late lord charles forte and a sister to the hotel magnate sir rocco forte , had no idea what lay in store when she first fell in love with the ruins of oxney court at st margaret's-at-cliffe in kent . the gaunt stump of the old castle , surrounded by ancient woodland close to the sea , worked its charms .  " it had burnt down in 1914 , " she says . " but there was land and a cottage which was habitable . it was a romantic thing . we lived in london and visited at weekends while the work was done book , had the turrets added later and was occupied by cistercian monks who farmed there .  " planning permission was difficult to get , " says louise . " the council would n't let us have more than six bedrooms , with two in the cottage . " no doubt there was a worry she would turn it into a hotel , as they tend to run in the family .  " we had fantastic parties , masses of lovely celebrations , people staying every weekend . we tucked another two bedrooms into some outbuildings . entertaining was easy because the kitchen is conveniently placed , and there are no narrow corridors leading to funny little rooms . " the place is akin to a swish country house , with 35 acres , pool and tennis court . strutt and parker ( struttandparker.com ; 01227 451123 ) has it for sale for ? 4.5 million .  most castles require a budget of at least ? 1 million to ? 2 million . this might not get you a star castle in a filmset moat , but there than for defence .  " the joy is that everyone who buys a castle is someone who puts romance before practicality , " says jamie mcnab of savills . they are loved by the scottish diaspora and by americans . the ultimate trophy house , then ? " absolutely . perfect for people who love entertaining . "  he is selling castle gogar , on the edge of the edinburgh green belt , a creamy , crenellated scots baronial-style castle dating back to 1625 , restored to 21st-century millionaire standards . savills ( savills.co.uk ; 0131 247 3711 ) has listed it at ? 2.9 million . it has five bedrooms , five bathrooms , a two-bedroom wing , outbuildings with a gym and games room , floodlit man ? ge and four paddocks . yet it still has castle features : a vaulted crypt ; tower room ; battlements ; and turrets with arrow slots .  more cosy is the dowery house , which sits near the village of ford , 12 miles out of edinburgh . it dates to the 1660s but became a dower house and seven acres , it feels like a family home but throws up a dramatic cookie-cutter outline against the sky . all the glories of scotland are within reach : golf courses ; shooting in the lammermuir hills ; fishing on the river tweed ; and edinburgh itself . it can be yours for ? 2.2 million ( savills.co.uk ; 0131 247 3711 ) . for the price of inverquharity you could n't get more than a two-bedroom flat in london 's battersea , or a two-bedroom cottage in essex . but what would inverquharity castle cost if you moved it south of the border ?  the stone tower at claverdon in warwickshire was built at almost the same time and in the same style as a scottish tower house . it has three bedrooms in a downstairs wing , and the tower has a kitchen , dining room , drawing room and r oof terrace from which to survey the countryside . a two-bedroom cottage is attached . knight frank ( knightfrank.co.uk ; 01789 297735 ) has listed it at ? 1.75 million .  mike and sheila mills 's silver jubilee , and restored it to suit their modern living .  they have kept the castle aesthetic , with oak floors and doors , stone staircases and four-poster beds , but have added carpets , rugs and a modern kitchen . again , the parties have been wonderful .