Profile: Libyan leader Mohamed Magariaf
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-19901128

his friendly manner and off-the-record chats have made him popular with journalists - and many say he is " really cool ... and quite liberal " .  outside media circles , those who know the chairman of the general national congress describe him as a man of unwavering principles .  but for many libyans , their interim leader is a mystery ; he went into exile in 1980 and only returned after the fall of colonel muammar gaddafi 's regime in 2011 .  published author  mr magariaf is a prolific reader and writer - and over the years he has published several books on libyan politics , history and economics .  he also enjoys watching films .  president magariaf at a glance  1940 : born in benghazi  1958 : graduated from secondary school - reportedly with top marks in the country  1972-1977 : president of the government accounting office  1978-1980 : ambassador to india  1980 : resigned from col gaddafi 's government and went into exile  1981 : co-founded the opposition national front for the august 2012 : elected as chairman of the national general congress  perhaps unusually for a libyan man , he never learned to drive - but he also never let that stop him from commenting on other people 's driving , according to asma , one of his six daughters .  " my mum would drive him around - and it was funny to see them together with him commenting on how fast or slow she 's driving , " she recounts .  old family friends remember an industrious young magariaf , dedicated to his family .  while at secondary school in benghazi - where he was born in 1940 - he worked part-time at an accounting firm to help support 11 siblings .  he finished school in 1958 , reportedly scoring the highest marks in the whole of what was then the kingdom of libya .  he went to the uk on a government scholarship before returning to libya to work as an economics professor at the university in benghazi .  between 1972 and 1977 , he was in charge of the government accounting and meant he had oversight of the coffers under col gaddafi .  failed assassinations  in 1978 , he was posted to india as the ambassador - because , his family says , he had become becoming increasingly outspoken about the government corruption he had witnessed .  two years into the job , mr magariaf defected to first morocco then egypt before settling in georgia , us .  he co-founded and served for two decades as the secretary-general for the national front for the salvation of libya ( nfsl ) , the opposition group made famous by its failed assassination attempt on col gaddafi in 1984 .  mr magariaf himself has survived several assassination attempts .  image caption mr magariaf has " unwavering principles " say his friends  mr magariaf resigned as head of the nfsl when he was named leader of the general national congress .  over the years , mr magariaf 's family have paid a heavy price for his anti-gaddafi stance ; one of his sisters was imprisoned for three years and his brothers for eight .  his political activities lives of his seven children .  asma says she has asked him several times whether he regretted joining the opposition .  " he is always emphatic about it being the most difficult decision he made in his life , to risk his life and that of his family , " she says .  he is deeply committed to the idea that one 's relationship with god is very personalasma , daughter  " but after that he made peace with it and then he felt there was no fear , no hesitation and no going back . "  religious controversy  in august , a month after libya 's first elections since the overthrow of col gaddafi , mr magariaf was voted as the leader of libya 's 200-member general national assembly .  he was labelled a " moderate islamist " - no doubt because of his ties to the nfsl , which in the 1980s was known as a militant islamist group .  but he is " far from that " , says asma , explaining " he is deeply spiritual but also deeply is very personal " .  " his preference - and , of course , this is something that will be up to debate within the constitutional committee - is that he supports secularism . "  " he always feels that if you do n't have that separation , there is room for abuse and we ca n't take that chance again . "  but that preference , which mr magariaf spoke about in an arab newspaper , has sparked controversy - and prompted a walkout by some assembly members , including those who felt his words meant he had already decided libya 's future form of governance .  his response was an immediate public apology - and a partial retraction .  " it is obvious that our reality has no room for secularism or theocracy , " he said , but added , " and it has no room for men of religion with absolute powers . "  mr magariaf will serve as libya 's interim head of state until fresh elections are held in 2013 , following the drafting of a new constitution .