Royston Tan's 69 wins Busan award at close of Asian Film Market
http://www.screendaily.com/territories/asia-pacific/royston-tans-69-wins-busan-award-at-close-of-asian-film-market/5047716.article

A total of 1,098 market badge holders from 690 companies attended , up from last year 's 1,080 badge holders from 583 companies . Organisers reported about 70 deals including titles such as Masquerade , The Thieves and Paganini : The Devil 's Violinist and " a significant increase " in market screening from 64 to 80 year-on-year , and 281 online screenings .  Although attendees echoed opinions of previous years that it is a good place to meet people but often deals are closed later at TIFFCOM or AFM , several deals were also struck at the Asian Film Market this year , and certain expectations turned on their heads .  " This is my first time here and I was pre-warned that it is great if you have an Asian film , but I had a Canadian film . We were imagining we 'd make contact here and close later , but managed to close a deal to Korea here in addition to meeting buyers from Japan , Taiwan and Hong Kong , " says Filmoption International vice president of Distribution and Sales Shawn Linden , which world premiered in the World Cinema selection , to Priya for Korea .  " The screenings here are brilliant , the audiences amazing , and the venues fantastic . It 's all very well organised . The buyer was in the festival screening audience and the audience adored it . All three screenings were packed . It makes a huge difference to have a distributor see the film that way . We had no such expectations -- we had hoped but mostly were just counting on this to lead up to AFM . But now we will proceed with a little confidence in the back pocket , " he said .  The European Film Promotion ( EFP ) also announced a slew of deals from their umbrella stand ( see separate story ) .  " We talked to our sales agents and they are all very satisfied with this year 's Asian Film Market , " said EFP Film Sales Support staff Cornelia Klimkeit . " It was good to follow up meeting from Toronto here . A lot of deals were struck or initiating negotiations here but many were completed or almost completed here . "  " What 's very interesting is that Memories Corner from last year , closed a deal to Japan after the market and this year will be released there by Medalien Media . But it is n't just films in the festival that can sell here and so it 's worthwhile for our sellers to return , " she said .  Other deals reported to organisers include Korean sales company CJ Entertainment selling Deranged , Spellbound , Perfect Number and Masquerade to Twin for Japan . The last film also sold to Joy N Contents for Thailand . Amongst other Korean companies , Indiestory sold Dancing Cat and Mother to Agaligo for Thailand , and Mirovision sold Japanese Oscar entry and BIFF selection Our Homeland to Edko for Hong Kong . The company also sold fest title Melo to Sundream for Hong Kong .  US sales company CMG ( Cinema Management Group ) sold Creature and No Tell Motel to JNCG for Korea and Still to SYcomad for Korea . Zambezia , Khumba and The Collection Celluloid Dreams/Nightmares sold Outrage Beyond to Maywin Media for Russia as well as 10 films ' VOD rights to China .  The market closed with a raft awards including the new Technicolor Asia Award and the Arte Award . See below for full list .  Most popular  Advertise with us  Screen International provides a range of effective advertising opportunities both in print and online . Our commercial team will work with you to build the most effective package for your marketing requirement .  Subscribe to Screen  Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . A subscription now offers much greater value with full access to ScreenDaily.com , ScreenBase and Screen International magazine . Rely on us for expert news analysis , insight and data .  Screen International  Screen International is the leading film industry resource covering the international film markets . We provide a whole-industry perspective from some of the most knowledgeable writers and data analysts in the business . Across print and online mediums , Screen International delivers analysis , opinion and commentary on the issues , people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @