CERN sees surge in job applicants after turning to social media
http://www.computerweekly.com/news/2240165200/CERN-sees-surge-in-job-applicants-after-turning-to-social-media

cern , home of the large hadron collider ( lhc ) , has seen a tenfold surge in candidates applying for hard-to-fill vacancies , after turning to social media .  cern , based in geneva , says it has seen the number of applicants for typical jobs grow from 30 to 50 to over 500 during the last 12 months .  the nuclear research establishment has transformed its recruitment processes by replacing one-off ads in specialist publications and on job sites with recruitment on twitter , facebook and investing in cloud-based recruitment platforms .  over the past six months , it has attracted over 500 referrals from facebook alone , said james purvis , head of talent acquisition at cern .  " facebook is a massive referral network . a lot of people are finding out about jobs from friends of friends , " purvis told computer weekly .  the organisation , which recruits between 200 permanent staff each year , has traditionally relied on its high-profile brand to attract suitable candidates .  the large hiring challenge  but cern has problem known internally as the large hiring challenge .  " people think you have to be a particle physicist to work at cern , but we employ very few physicists . we need technicians , engineers , accountants , lawyers , and firefighters , " said purvis , speaking ahead of a conference on hr technology .  got the job -- now read the t shirt  sometimes the low tech , or even the no-tech solution to recruitment is the best approach , says james purvis , head of talent acquisition at cern .  the research organisation recently had to come up with an innovative solution to overcome a major shortage of java engineers .  " we tried all the different job boards , job postings and social media . we tried videos on youtube , we put posts on facebook and on java job boards , " said purvis .  in the end , the answer proved much simpler .  " we realised that our java engineers are presenting at numerous conferences in europe and the us , " he said .  journals and specialist job sites , which took up a huge amount of hr staff time , with a high-speed cloud-based service .  the service , known as broadbean can post a job vacancy to 40 or 50 job sites across europe with a single click .  " we used to do sporadic advertising . we went to one job board , and it cost us ? 600-900 to post one job . now we can get a factor of ten cost savings by buying in bulk . the administration cost is a lot lower , " he said .  video interviews  cern has made further savings by screening shortlisted candidates remotely , through cloud-based video service , sonru , rather than interviewing each candidate face to face .  james purvis , cern  " we have carried out 1,500 interviews using sonru . we can reduce the number of candidates we need to interview in geneva and have seen at least a 20% saving in recruitment costs , " said purvis .  the system has allowed cern to weed out candidates who look good an early stage .  it gives recruitment managers the freedom to review the videos when it suits them . " ' to sonru ' has now become a verb at cern , " said purvis .  social media  cern 's hr team is producing a large range of videos for facebook and youtube to attract potential recruits .  they raise cern 's profile as an employer and give candidates advice on applying for jobs at the organisation , said purvis .  and the hr team is using twitter to post job vacancies . this helps to push cern 's recruitment pages up the rankings in google , says purvis . " we want to make sure we are up at the top , " he said .  tracking applicants  the programme has left cern with another problem -- how to track the growing number of candidates that are applying for vacancies .  " because of the success of our advertising and sonru , we have moved from dealing with 30 or 50 applicants per post to several hundred per post , " said system since 2002 , but purvis is looking at improvements that could made applicant tracking easier .  " our applicant tracking system is very robust , but our process runs on the assumption that the recruiter needs to review each cv , " he said . " we are looking to give rankings to candidates based on their skills and experience , rather than read every cv " he said .  purvis plans to upgrade the applicant tracking system next year . the main technical challenge will be integrating it with cern 's oracle-based hr system .  because cern is a government organisation , it needs a sophisticated hr system that can deal with issues such as helping staff relocate , and finding schools for workers ' children .  " technology has allowed us to deliver more with the same resources . it has allowed us to better meet the needs of the organisation , particularly in areas we were not managing to do a few years ago , " said purvis .  james purvis is speaking at the hr tech europe conference in amsterdam on password  password  by submitting you agree to receive email from techtarget and its partners . if you reside outside of the united states , you consent to having your personal data transferred to and processed in the united states . privacy