Hereford and Folkestone closures are bad news for horse racing
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/horse-racing/20747679

when considering the closures - for the time being , at least - of hereford and folkestone racecourses , i need to declare an immediate interest .  i actually have no recollection of going to hereford for the first time , simply because i was so young at the time . but like many families that lived close by , the lysaghts attended loyally , with a march saturday and the whitsun bank holiday fixture especially popular . this was in the days before a short-lived boxing day meeting .  it is important for the future of jumping that the smaller tracks , other herefords and folkestones , survive  what i do recall , however , is going with some friends when aged three and a half . the racecard ( which i still possess ) contained the names of such 1960s riding legends as terry biddlecombe and eddie harty .  and , pun entirely intended , i knew the form : the location of the weighing room , the bookies ( though even the most amiable refused us ) and knowing how fence .  forty-five-plus years later , the party that has been going on at hereford since 1771 ( and since 1898 at folkestone ) is over , after arena racing company ( arc ) , the owner or leaseholder of 17 tracks in all , made the closure decision .  at hereford , the fixtures have been moved elsewhere , and although the track is technically licensed for 2013 , officials do not anticipate any racing taking place .  you will understand , therefore , the deep sense of sadness being felt by this son of herefordshire ; something similar no doubt applies to regulars at its doomed sister course in kent .  arc 's bosses insist that neither is viable in its current form , and that they make no money . however , they say that if an extension on the current 17-year lease at hereford can be sorted - and planning issues at folkestone likewise resolved - the closures , the first of any longstanding track since stockton , teesside , in 1981 , could be reversed .  there is , of course  bath  brighton  chepstow  doncaster  ffos las  folkestone  fontwell park  great yarmouth  hereford  lingfield park  newcastle  royal windsor  sedgefield  southwell  uttoxeter  wolverhampton  worcester  in large racecourse groups like arc , just one aspect of the reuben brothers ' business empire , the shareholders are king .  a large portion of the lucrative revenue from media rights and the income from the bookmakers ' levy does not remain at the tracks where it is generated but is soon off to the holding company 's coffers .  there is a suspicion among some that the sport is of secondary importance .  in contrast , some of the people running independent courses - taunton in somerset is a good example - are less concerned about shareholders and able to plough their cash back into facilities and prize money .  it may be naive to think everyone can operate like this , but it is important for the future of jumping that the smaller tracks - other herefords and folkestones - survive .  of a vast pyramid , at the top of which stand the bigger fixtures , like cheltenham and aintree , that operate as the sport 's shop window .  horses that are to climb to the top need somewhere to start : early sorties in the successful careers of good hurdlers mrs muck and mighty man took place at hereford . the demise of racing in herefordshire and in kent is not just sad for local racegoers ; it is bad news for the sport as a whole .  at the final hereford meeting , arc 's jim allen said : " we will keep it as a racecourse , maintaining the fences , hurdles and running rails , cutting and fertilising the racetrack .  " we are happy to talk to anyone because we will do what we can to keep racing . i could see it in action in 2014 . "  many of us hope he is correct but there is one especially worrying statistic : no course that has been closed down , other than in war time , has ever reopened .