A Letter From... Northern Ireland #7
http://www.clashmusic.com/feature/a-letter-from-northern-ireland-7

popular festivals  this has been yet another exciting month in northern ireland ... let 's kick things off with some brand spanking new emerging talent . first off the bat is the offering from former front woman of no mean city , jilly st john .  jilly returns to her rawking roots with her new venture the aptly named wyldling . hot off the press wyldling is much in its early stages but st john and " friends " which the act consist of have already offered the online world a taste of some pretty promising tunes . the initial stand out track for me is ' waiting on water ' which holds one hell of a catchy chorus . the track which holds an unmistakable guitar solo slotted in between the echoing raw vocals of st john , shows just how far the front woman has come from her no mean city days .  it is hard to define which genre exactly wyldling fits into , but one thing 's for certain ni will be hearing a lot about them for the rest with one ep , barbara from the very talented best boy grip . the hype surrounding best boy grip is not unjustified , as the first thing that springs to mind when listening to this ep is to put it simply , that it is pure listening pleasure for the ears . barbara is just pure melodic genius and personally it 's been a long time since i have heard such an inviting ep , from any artist . the ep is filled with beautiful lyrics " my heart stops beating when i hear you speak " , which can be somewhat comical at times " you 're the one that feeds me honey from the hive " are just infectious from start to finish . stand out track for myself on this ep has to be the title track barbara , with its beautiful upbeat and pure fun vibe . this is one artist that i see going from strength to strength .  next up on the scene we have a plastic rose who will be releasing their much anticipated new single on march 19th , under the di one hell of a start by supporting the legendary ni act , snow patrol in london 's o2 arena and belfast 's odyssey arena , both of which were sold out shows . gary lightbody who sought out the band himself in a local venue , in belfast was impressed enough to add them to the snow patrol tour support . the first single from the album which is rumoured to being released in september 2012 , is none other than ' build from the ground up ' . the track starts with an orchestral feel before going fast into a plastic roses own take on alternative rock , which takes me vastly back to the nineties . a band hotly tipped not to be missed , i would recommend keeping an eye out for the rest of these guys singles in the run up to their already much talked about new album .  one band that i can not fail to mention that has been buzzing all over northern ireland recently is the crazily upbeat , wonder villains . the band who hail from derry-londonderry are in one word indie , the wonder villains could be described as none other than a refreshing change . popular track is the highly cheerful ' zola ' with its zesty and infectious catchy fun filled pop feel . a band who are as bubbly in their music as they are on stage , if you like that sort of thing and fancy a change they would get my vote as a band to go check out .  that is it in the way of bands and ep 's for now but when it comes to ni , it is most definitely a scene that never sleeps . if your around in the next month are so these are my tips for gigs to go check out .  new noise events will be bringing all of northern irelands hottest acts to two venues in derry-londonderry , masons bar and the nerve centre . next up is more than conquers , dutch shultz and droids on the 30th march , a club night where all the cool kids will be for sure . one gig i am truly excited about though is radar belfast , with in case of fire , before machines and firm favourites , like statues .  if like me you ca n't wait until next time for your guide to what to listen to in northern ireland , local belfast radio station blast 106 promote what 's new in local music every wednesday on through the wall 7pm to 9pm.