Ghost Recon: Future Soldier preview - the science of war
http://metro.co.uk/2012/01/26/ghost-recon-future-soldier-preview-the-science-of-war-298114/

ghost recon : future soldier preview -- the science of war  the future of warfare is closer than you think , as gamecentral goes hands-on with the new ghost recon and its high tech military gadgetry .  ghost recon : future soldier -- war never changes ?  have you ever noticed how modern sci-fi games and movies never seem to feature ray guns or other more advanced technologies anymore ? rapid space flight is still commonplace but in an attempt to create a kind of grounded realism even games like halo and mass effect are filled with machineguns and other almost contemporary technology .  the peculiar upshot of this is that the ghost recon series , which has always tried to accurately simulate the near future of infantry combat , now seems more sci-fi than actual sci-fi games . but everything in the new future soldier game is based on technologies that are either just about to be deployed or are at least under development .  we got to play short sections of five different levels , all featuring your four-man squad be russian soldiers ( we 've no idea yet what the story is behind the game , except that it references shadow wars on the 3ds -- which presumably means robot drones at some point ) . squad controls have fallen out of fashion in recent years , so even though future soldier doesn ? ? ? t necessarily do anything new with them it 's good simply to see them back .  the third person controls are standard for the genre and although you can direct team-mates to move to specific spots , or take out specific enemies , they 'll conduct themselves perfectly well on their own . they will always follow your lead though and wo n't start a firefight without you . this leads to many moments where you set up a ' synchshot ' attack , where each team member is locked onto an enemy , their blue laser sighting only waiting for your order to send a bullet whizzing along its trajectory .  one of the main new technological gimmicks for future soldier is optical camo . these are n't quite invisibility cloaks unseen even when right next to an enemy -- as long as you are n't moving . the faster you go the less useful they are , but those who always favour a stealth approach will love them .  the obvious concern with this sort of high tech equipment , especially when most of your enemies are just ak-47 wielding terrorists , is that it makes the game too easy . that 's certainly not the case from what we 've seen though , not least because you 're almost always outnumbered . but there 's also an interesting suppression mechanic where the camera wobbles wildly when you 're under heavy weapons fire , to mimic the confusion and panic you 'd feel if it was really happening .  it 's not a concept we 've seen since the brothers in arms games and struggling to call in your team to take out your attacker really does induce a genuine sense of panic . although if you do get hit there 's a relatively generous bleed out time limit that allows your team to came and find and revive you 've got what amounts to x-ray vision through your heads-up display ' cross-com ' eye piece . you 've a little flying drone that you can deploy whenever you want to scout the area , which will even target enemies for the rest of the team . or if enemies are closer by you can throw a ' sensor grenade ' which will instantly add anyone with a gun to your list of targets .  it 's all made to look very plausible and as you can see from our interview with one of the team most of the tech is either already in action or relatively imminent . we even happened across this story on the bbc today , which illustrates the current real world progress with optical camo .  as interesting and novel as all this is though it does n't automatically make for a great game , although there are some other interesting ideas beyond the gadgets . civilians are much more prominent and numerous than in other similar games and they can easily tip off enemies as to your presence .  creeping through have been simply because we did n't know when a civilian might call out to the guards if they saw us , or when they might stampede in panic when the fighting started .  one level set on a busy street in pakistan almost seemed like a riff on heat , with abandoned cars everywhere as you methodically work your way up towards your target . this was the most exciting and distinctive level , although a more stealth-based one in a russian forest was also interesting . especially in terms of the amount of freedom it gave you in the route you took through it and how stealthy you were about it .  we enjoyed the demo but there were definitely concerns . the four soldiers making up your team had no discernable personality , or even distinguishing features , and we 're not convinced from our interview that this will necessarily change in the final game . this might not be a serious flaw , but it does seem a missed opportunity give the focus on how they all work together .  a more obvious issue , which genuinely did look playstation 2 quality in places . this we were assured would change in the final game , and given that the rest of the visuals look fine we 're willing to believe that for now .  we certainly hope the game turns out well because we need more realistic science fiction games , and although that was probably never the role ghost recon was trying to fill it does so very well anyway.formats : xbox 360 , playstation 3 , pc and nintendo dspublisher : ubisoftdeveloper : ubisoft paris and ubisoft red stormrelease date : 25th may 2012 ( pc tba )