Bigg Boss: The rise of female bullies Dolly Bindra and Pooja Misrra
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-2091940/Bigg-Boss-The-rise-female-bullies-Dolly-Bindra-Pooja-Misrra.html

when the big boss takes over : the rise of female bullies dolly bindra and pooja misrra  her loud and intimidating presence is her main claim to fame . it was dolly bindra 's bossiness and instant name-calling that made her the most popular contestant of bigg boss season 4 .  bindra did n't hesitate to shout or abuse others and even resorted to emotional blackmail when it suited her .  pooja misrra was quick to follow bindra 's suit in the recently concluded season , and became the new female bully , the woman who intimidates people to get her way with them .  dolly bindra did n't hesitate to shout or abuse others and even resorted to emotional blackmail when it suited her on the show  her eyes flash , her voice is loud and haranguing , she stands arms akimbo , in your face , full body thrust , challenging . her game is intimidation to get what she wants , to be heard and to block out others .  the universal pattern of female bullies is visible and aggressively grabbing what it wants .  the whole gamut : the ' kali ' -eyed women of the saas bahu serials who stride around to thundering music ; the subtly overpowering desperate housewives ; tanu who weds manu ; the raging rough queens of politics ; the haranguing feminist groups ' fighting ' for women 's rights .  women who clamour for attention through their own victimhood are equally bullying . for example , the miserable , sacrificing , widowed , sewing-machine wielding , tb stricken mother of old hindi movies who controlled outcomes of when her sons and daughters would eat and who they could go out with .  deeply ingrained in our psyche  numerous examples come to mind when i think ' female bullies ' and the diverse ways in which women misuse this force . it makes me wonder if women have swung from inhabiting one stereotype to another . has the doormat woman , in her search for the self , transformed into the vicious bully ?  or is it that she always existed , as an exaggerated expression of self to do what it takes to achieve what she wants ?  pooja misrra was quick to follow bindra 's suit in the recently concluded season , and became the new female bully , the woman who intimidates people to get her way with them  deeply implanted in the psyche of indian society are the timeless energies of mahabharata and ramayana which also include kaikayi as a key player in the form of the machiavellian wife who used all she had , including boons of gratitude to twist things in her favour . is there a female bully in your home ?  is there one in you ? when i asked people this question , they had no stories to tell about themselves or bosses , wives , sisters , making me wonder if this was a secret that no one wanted to talk about ?  is it because the men do n't want to admit that the women boss them around ? as for the women , is it that they do n't want to accept that the one they call a ' bitch ' laughingly or away to ?  a legacy of bullying  as an older sister of three brothers i grew up bossing them . when i could not win with words , i beat them physically until they outgrew me physically .  yes , i am an erstwhile bully . as a little girl i had figured out what made my whole world tick . being witty got me what i needed from dad , even if it meant going against my mother 's wishes . jealous of my younger , angelic-looking brother , i made it my life 's agenda to make him pay for being born .  the easiest way to do that was to become the focus of everyone 's attention and throw into the mix hitting , pinching , tale telling . as i got older , i learned to use ignoring and viciousness as my tools .  i was a bullying girl without realising it . i schemed , calculated and manipulated to get what i wanted , no matter what . today i look back on my life journey -- a marriage , motherhood of most of my relationships have been skewed . two thirds of my life has been about aggression -- either dishing it out or receiving it .  i would either bully or be bullied . i was helpless in the clutches of this need within me for extreme expressions of anger .  working it out  psychologists say that at the core of every bully is a fearful child . bullying can only stop when we are ready to acknowledge our power , ignore the ' fearful child ' and confront the bully in ourselves , and her dynamicshow she creeps up on her when we insist on our way -- directly or insidiously ?  also , what do we as women or as victims of female bullying toward us and toward men , want to do about it ? what are our options when we come face to face with the bullying woman ?  do we quietly go along with whatever she wants or ignore her and do what is ok by us ? the answers are different for each of us .  every individual age 50 , i am pleased to say that i have worked that bully out of my system .  i have grown up . i no longer have any need to abuse my power or give it away to anyone else . these healing years have , however , been tinged with remorse at my past behaviour . when my brother jokes with me and says ' we are scared for life , ' i am reminded that as his bullying older sister , i must have something to do with his childhood perceptions of how harsh the world is .  would this perception not have impacted his life and his relationships ? has he been in other relationships where the dynamics have been the same -- where he has felt helpless in the face of overt or subtle domineering ? only he knows the answer .  your little princess may be a bully after all  she may not shout , throw tantrums or come home with torn clothes like her brother . but this does n't mean that your little princess ca n't knock someone down especially common among girls at all female institutions .  ' bullying is generally considered a manly trait and girls bully each other less in co-ed schools as they are keen to show their feminine qualities .  school counsellors and educators say that bullying is especially common among girls at all female institutions  female bullying is mostly verbal- mocking at their classmates ' clothes , height , complexion and weight , for instance .  girls who do n't get their eyebrows plucked , hands and legs waxed or who prefer knee length socks over ankle length ones are the ' easy targets ' .  cyber bullying needs tackling  described as the use of the internet , cell phones , or other devices to transmit text or images to hurt or embarrass another person , cyberbullying is on the rise among kids in india , according to a poll conducted by global research firm ipsos : three out of ten indian parents report that their children have been victims , and the problem is bigger in india than in the west . social networking sites like facebook most popular devices .  like in the u.s. , the number of suicides due to cyberbullying is also on the rise and the union home ministry has asked state governments and police forces tobe vigilant about cyber offenders .  apart from verbal ridicule , snatching money and lunch boxes from others or getting them to do their schoolwork are the other forms that bullying can take .  this trait of dominating and threatening others through mockery or hitting starts at a young age but is dismissed by people , who justify this behaviour by calling it ' smart ' and ' bold . '  ' unlike the west , the attitude in india is quite different . indian parents hate admitting that their child could be a bully , ' points out dr merchant . but this can become a serious problem .  ' parents and teachers often shrug off such behaviour as a teenage problem that will subside naturally . counsellors are approached only when the situation spirals out of hand , ' says khosla .  bullying is a reflection of deep rooted problems bullying others is a way of covering up her own insecurities and jealousy , ' says khosla .  getting to the cause of the problem is essential . ' a missing sense of empathy from parents makes some girls laugh at others ' shortcomings .  ' kids need to learn to accept others better instead of putting them down , ' says dr merchant . parents need to develop an open relationship with their daughters , be aware of what 's happening at school and what her friendships mean to her .  ' communicate freely with your child . if she says she is being bullied , listen to her . do n't dismiss complaints about your daughter from school or other kids ' parents casually either , ' says dr merchant .