Big Switch: 75000 consumers join forces to get cheaper utility bills
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/household-bills/9078379/Big-Switch-75000-consumers-join-forces-to-get-cheaper-utility-bills.html

Within the space of just a few days , more than 75,000 consumers signed up to a pioneering campaign to secure cheaper gas and electricity tariffs .  Which ? has launched the first " collective purchasing " trial for energy in Britain , although such schemes have been used successfully in other European countries , such as the Netherlands .  Already the " Big Switch " scheme has cross-party support : the new Energy Secretary , Ed Davey , has said he wants to see other similar schemes launched , in a bid to drive down energy costs for consumers , while the shadow minister , Caroline Flint ( below right ) , described it as a " trailblazing way to help bring down soaring bills " .  But how does the scheme work , and what can you save ? The following questions and answers provide more information .  This is another name for group buying . Which ? is coordinating the initiative and is looking for as many people to sign-up as possible . The more names it gets , the able to persuade the energy companies to offer a more competitive deal .  What rates are being offered ?  This is n't known as yet . Once the registration period ends , and Which ? knows how many consumers have signed up , it will invite the major energy suppliers to bid for their business . It will conduct a " reverse auction " , offering the deal to the company with the lowest tariff . It will then contact individual home owners , detailing the potential savings and inviting them to switch .  How many people are likely to sign up ?  People have until the end of March to join the campaign . Given that 40,000 have signed up so far , the numbers are likely to run into the hundreds of thousands .  Richard Lloyd , executive director of Which ? , added : " The bigger the group , the stronger our bargaining power will be . We are urging anyone who is angry about the state of the energy market to sign up . The Big Switch is the first chance will the energy suppliers offer cheaper tariffs ? I thought they had just lowered their prices ?  The company that secures this deal can expect to win thousands of new customers , so it is hoped suppliers will tender some competitive rates . And as this is the first of these schemes there will no doubt be considerable publicity for whichever supplier wins the auction .  If I sign up will I be obliged to switch ?  No . Once the deal has been secured , Which ? will contact all those who have signed up , giving them a personalised estimate of the likely savings . You are n't obliged to switch , so if the savings are n't significant enough , or you do n't like the terms of the deal , you simply stick with your current provider .  According to Ofgem , the energy regulator , about 60pc of consumers have never switched energy providers . But it 's hoped initiatives like this may encourage more to switch if it produces bigger savings and is spearheaded by a trusted consumer brand , such live ?  No . This is a nationwide scheme . Usually suppliers will quote different rates for different regions . But here Which ? is asking for a rate that will be applicable for all regions . This may mean that some people stand to make more substantial savings than others . After the auction , consumers will be asked to provide details , such as postcode and current energy consumption , so Which ? can provide a more accurate estimate of potential savings .  Who will save the most ?  Those who have never switched before , pay their bills quarterly by cheque and still get their gas and electricity from different suppliers stand to make the biggest savings . But it 's hoped that the rate offered will beat the current best buys , potentially benefiting a far wider group of consumers .  What if I am on a fixed-rate tariff ?  There is usually a penalty to pay from moving away from a fixed-rate tariff during the period ( most are one or two-year contracts ) . This does n't stop you signing to factor in this penalty when calculating potential savings . It may means it 's not cost effective to switch .  Will I have to move to online billing and paying by direct debit ?  It 's not yet known what type of deal will be secured . It may be an online tariff or may require customers to pay by direct debit . Mr Lloyd said they were aiming for a relatively simple deal that would appeal to as many people as possible . There are likely to be options though for those who only want to switch one fuel .  How long will the deal last ?  This will depend what deals are offered via the auction . It could be that this is a one-year deal , which will require customers to stick with the supplier for 12 months . It 's unlikely to tie them in for any longer period . If this proves successful then Which ? may run a similar scheme next year , which would be open both to new customers and to those who have taken advantage of this  While 5m people switch energy suppliers a year , the majority of people have never moved . Which ? has previously estimated that energy companies are making some ? 4bn a year from this consumer apathy , which is the difference between the standard tariffs , which are paid by the majority of consumers , and the most competitive deals offered new customers . One of the reasons cited for people not switching is there is little perceived difference between the major suppliers .  It is hoped that this approach , whereby a third party negotiates on behalf of a large group of consumers , may prove a more effective way of driving down energy costs .  Who else could offer such a scheme ?  Mr Lloyd said if the Big Switch proved successful it was an idea they were keen to apply to other markets .  There has been talk of local authorities , trade and credit unions and housing associations offering their own collective purchasing deals .  Although on a smaller scale , similar arrangements are deployed to buy heating oil . Comparison pass on the bulk discount to consumers .  And village schemes are becoming increasingly popular , such as the one set up in West Challow , Oxfordshire . Up to 95pc of the village has signed up , cutting fuel costs by up to 1p per litre . The website Incahoot.com , which already offers " group discount deals " on utility bills , is now also offering a shopping discount scheme .