Business leader found guilty of nine sex crimes
http://www.romseyadvertiser.co.uk/news/9524548.Business_leader_found_guilty_of_nine_sex_crimes/

business leader found guilty of nine sex crimes  a leading test valley businessman faces a prison sentence after being convicted of a string of sex offences committed three dec-ades ago .  alan chatfield , from king 's somborne , is facing a lengthy stretch behind bars after being found guilty of nine charges , including gross indecency with a child , rape and sexual assaults .  chatfield , 56 , who was the head of southampton 's federation of small businesses until last year , was convicted after a crown court trial lasting seven days .  the historic offences date back to a sustained period of abuse during the 1960s and 70s , with the earliest committed when he was just 11 himself .  jurors rejected his denials , and found him guilty of three counts of rape , three of gross indecency with a child , two of indecent assault on a female , and one of a serious sexual assault .  the judge directed them to acquit chatfield of a further charge of indecent assault on a female . month , but has already been made to sign the sex offenders ' register .  the investigation into chatfield was led by police in kent , where he grew up in grantham , and his trial was held at canterbury crown court .  the co-founder of cf electronics , based near romsey , his career has mostly been in electronics , including roles with former itv company tvs , military communications firm plessey , in christchurch , wessex electronics and blake electronics in southampton .  when blake went into voluntary liquidation , he founded cf electronics with another former employee , building parts for other manufacturers from its base in lockerley .  chatfield was re-elected as chairman of the southampton branch of the fsb three years ago and was a key player in the wessex-wide organisation as spokesman on transport and environmental issues .  share article  promoted stories  he has also represented the southampton federation on several partnership bodies , including graduate job south , hampshire strategic partnership , and hampshire west young enterprise , which works with children as young as four to also served on task groups of several local authorities , including eastleigh , test valley and southampton , and the board of young enterprise in southampton .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here  it looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? click here to learn more .  so we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . how do i turn off my ad-blocker ?