Goodbye soggy chips: the rise and rise of Hackney street food
http://hackneycitizen.co.uk/2012/02/13/the-rise-of-hackney-street-food/

check , courtesy of lucky chip , who are following in the meatwagon 's footsteps , selling their delicious beef concoctions out of a van . clean-off-the-bone ribs translated into a portable lunch ?  mark ' the ribman ' gevaux will happily be your saviour if you venture to nearby brick lane on a sunday .  authentic wood-fired pizzas ? local wunderkinds homeslice have it covered , or at least they did until their doughy end-of-year success led them to pursue pop-up opportunities further afield , including an exciting , in-the-works project on portobello road .  for gevaux , in particular , 2011 was a fantastic year , with the long table night market in dalston , the success of his ' holy fuck ' hot sauce , and joining up with eat.st being particular highlights .  he puts the success of street food in hackney down to the borough 's adventurous culture and relative affordability : " one of the reasons street food has thrived in hackney and not kensington is that i ca n't see the people of kensington sitting in drum , " he says .  " they are missing out . also , i should think the rents would price many of us out . i work on such a tight profit margin my prices would have to go up so much i would be embarrassed . "  the rise of quality street food in london is going a long way to countering popular misconceptions about american-style dining . as anyone who has ever sampled proper yankee fare will tell you , it 's a far cry from what 's peddled at mcdonald 's and tgi friday 's .  even the humble hot dog -- usually linked to dodgy vendors in leicester square and even dodgier tummies -- has experienced a renaissance on old street in the hands of the permanently cheerful abiye and his gleaming big apple hot dog cart .  according to pizza man george whiting of homeslice , hackney 's creative spirit as an important factor in the rise of its street food scene : " hackney has a young , creative culture at the moment and i think the street food culture does it give talented people an opportunity to do their own thing without breaking the bank , but it helps rejuvenate otherwise disused areas . "  driven by the passion of people like whiting and gevaux , the future of street food looks bright indeed . a weekend stroll down another of 2011 's big success stories , chatsworth road market , showcases the full spectrum of local street eats : everything from the gourmet ethical offerings at vegan peasant to the warming pho and inspired fusion baguettes at longstanding hackney favourites bahnmi11 .  the taste for street food is also spreading to the upper echelons of the culinary world . upmarket city and west end steakhouse hawksmoor not only serve big apple hot dogs in their restaurants , they recently traded suits for skinny jeans and set up shop at the long table in dalston . and abiye 's hot dogs now feature at man-of-the-moment russell norman 's new joint , mishkins .  only a few years ago , this street food revolution seemed like the pipedream of a few madmen ( and women ) willing to a taste of the real deal . but happen it did . and perhaps , given that sherry has morphed from nan 's afternoon pick-me-up into a hip tipple in the space of just twelve months , that 's not so surprising after all .