Drought: first desalination opens in mainland Britain as water ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/earthnews/9141282/Drought-first-desalination-opens-in-mainland-Britain-as-water-bosses-warn-of-price-rises.html

More than one million people will be supplied with water from Britain 's first large-scale desalination plant this summer to help cope with what is expected to be a widespread drought .  Within weeks , the new ? 270million plant in east London will begin supplying homes with seawater that has been turned into drinking water .  More than 20million people are facing hosepipe bans after seven water companies announced restrictions earlier this week . Householders could be fined up to ? 1,000 for filling a paddling pool or washing their car .  Water companies yesterday faced calls to invest in reducing leaks instead of imposing water restrictions on home owners . According to official figures , the companies are losing 3.4billion litres of water a year to leaks , equivalent to 25 per cent of all water used . Thames Water admitted that its last hosepipe ban , imposed in 2006 , resulted in just a 5 per cent drop in water use .  Ann Robinson , the director of consumer policy at USwitch , said : " I accept we have is the incredible amount of leakage . " Families face an average price rise for water of 6 per cent to ? 376 per year from April , just before the hosepipe ban comes in . Southern Water , which missed its leak targets last year , is raising prices by more than 8 per cent .  Martin Baggs , the chief executive of Thames Water , warned that prices would have to rise even further to build reservoirs and new technology .  He said : " People must use less water during extreme conditions or we have got to have extra resources so people do n't have to have those restrictions . " His company built the desalination plant in Beckton , which will produce 150 million litres every day .  The plant works by taking water from the river at low tide , filtering it and then pumping it through a membrane perforated by millions of minute holes . The water produced is so clean that beneficial minerals have to be put back into it . But the process is extremely costly and energy intensive .