Leveson Inquiry: fallout from hacking scandal 'could increase culture ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/leveson-inquiry/9143288/Leveson-Inquiry-fallout-from-hacking-scandal-could-increase-culture-of-secrecy-at-Scotland-Yard.html

the fallout of the phone-hacking scandal could increase the culture of secrecy at scotland yard because of potential whistleblowers being prevented from speaking to the press , the leveson inquiry has been told .  scotland yard was described as a " secretive " organisation which has clamped down on junior officers talking to the media.photo : christopher pledger  sandra laville , crime correspondent for the guardian newspaper , said an " over-reaction " to the crisis had led to a clampdown on all but the most senior officers talking to journalists .  in a statement to the inquiry , miss laville said that as a result : " any officer meeting a journalist to make them aware of a pressing issue within the police ... to highlight racism , corruption or incompetence , is at risk of a criminal investigation and a disciplinary hearing . "  the metropolitan police has come in for repeated criticism over its close relationship with news international , and in january a report by elizabeth filkin , the former parliamentary commissioner for standards , suggested that reporters and the report also called for " more open and impartial " provision of information to the public , but miss laville said its recommendations were likely to have " the opposite effect " .  she said one recommendation in the report , that all leaks to journalists should automatically be the subject of a criminal investigation , " could be seen as criminalising informal contacts between the police and journalists " which are vital for holding the police to account .  " it is not enough that the flow of information from a police force is controlled by senior officers and their management board , who are driven by the need to protect the corporate image of the police force , " she added .  miss laville cited the case of kirk reid , a serial rapist who was finally jailed for life in 2009 following years of incompetence by the met , which had failed to bring him to justice earlier despite dozens of women being attacked by him for almost a decade .  the met had chosen not to highlight the case -- which eventually commission -- and it was only because an individual police officer tipped off the media that it came to be reported .  miss laville said that in the current climate , the officer who tipped her off about the reid case would be liable to criminal prosecution even though he was acting " in the public interest " by ensuring the met 's failures were brought to light .  junior officers " are already refusing to talk to journalists " , she said : " because there is now a growing culture of fear within scotland yard that if they do so they will be subjected to a criminal investigation , and/or sacked . "  she pointed out that it was senior officers and managers , not middle and lower-ranking officers , who were criticised for their " cosy " relationships with newspaper executives , yet the met 's response has been to give the senior officers and managers even more power .  she cited the example of sir robert mark , who faced a corruption scandal in the 1970s and responded by telling rank and file full support , to ensure corruption would be quickly exposed in future , and suggested he had struck " the right balance " .