Riot victim's father Tariq Jahan guilty of attack charge
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-birmingham-17608557

riot victim 's father tariq jahan guilty of attack charge  a man who called for calm after his son died in the birmingham riots has been found guilty of inflicting grievous bodily harm in an earlier attack .  tariq jahan broke a man 's jaw when he punched him last july in handsworth .  jahan , 46 , told birmingham crown court he acted in self defence and was cleared of causing gbh with intent .  the judge said jahan deserved to be sent to jail but gave him a suspended sentence owing to his public appeal for calm during the august riots .  ' extraordinary position '  jahan 's son haroon was one of three men who died in winson green during the riots in birmingham .  sentencing judge william davis qc said : " people who break people 's jaws in this kind of mindless violence normally go to prison but i take a view that because of his extraordinary position it is right to suspend sentence . "  jahan was given a 12-month sentence suspended for hours unpaid service and to pay ? 1,000 compensation to sajjad ali , the man he punched .  the court heard how jahan had been driving along factory road in july and had beeped his horn at a van blocking his route .  headbutting claim  mr ali , 34 , had been standing by the roadside speaking to the van driver and mouthed something aggressively to jahan , who was accompanied by his wife .  jahan told the jury he got out of the car to speak to mr ali to try to resolve the situation .  he then admitted hitting mr ali who he claimed had headbutted him first .  mr ali disputed that version of events .  he claimed jahan became aggressive because he accused mr ali of staring at his wife .  mr ali told the court jahan said : " oi , why you staring at me ? " before he climbed out of his car and accused him of " staring at my missus " .  mr ali 's jaw was fractured in two places and he said jahan must have used " moderate to severe " force to inflict those injuries .  jurors on thursday accepted that jahan 's did not intend to seriously harm mr ali on 6 july , 2011 .  ' genuine public service '  a month later jahan 's 21-year-old son haroon and two friends , brothers shazad ali , 30 , and abdul musavir , 31 , were struck by a car during disorder in winson green as riots spread across england .  all three were declared dead in hospital and hailed as heroes who died protecting homes and shops from looters .  within hours of haroon 's death jahan addressed a group of youths outside his home and appealed for them to " calm down " , end the disorder and " go home " .  addressing jahan directly on thursday the judge said his actions in august were a " genuine public service " .  he said in the aftermath of his son 's death jahan 's actions " probably prevented really serious disorder continuing in birmingham . "  he told jahan of events . for that reason and that reason alone i can suspend the sentence . "