Double Cross: The True Story of the D-Day Spies, By Ben Macintyre
http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/books/reviews/double-cross-the-true-story-of-the-d-day-spies-by-ben-macintyre-7621918.html

double cross : the true story of the d-day spies , by ben macintyre  after the second world war , a catalan former chicken-farmer named juan pujol retired to venezuela , where he taught spanish to shell staff and ran a bookshop . this literary destiny seems more than apt . between 1942 and 1945 , while living in a nondescript semi in hendon with a disgruntled wife and a dull cover job at the bbc , pujol -- " agent garbo " to his real controllers at mi5 -- contributed several decisive chapters to perhaps the most spectacularly effective work of fiction in modern history .  together with his double-agent colleagues , some of whose stories ben macintyre weaves into the latest of his enjoyable and engrossing books about wartime subterfuge and deception , garbo fashioned a " limitless , multi-character , ever-expanding novel " . it was designed to deceive the germans about every aspect of the preparations for d-day . from 1942 , every " german " source in britain worked for the allies , with the bizarre multi-national band of double its dry , cricket-fanatic chief john masterman .  by june 1944 , when the double-crossers achieved what macintyre calls their " world-changing triumph " , operation fortitude had managed to persuade the german high command that the normandy landings were merely " a starter before the main course " . that , the wehrmacht believed with " unshakeable " conviction , would take the form of a massive invasion of the pas de calais across the narrowest point of the channel by an ( entirely fictional ) first us army group under general patton , with side-order attacks aimed at norway and the atlantic coast around bordeaux .  did this intricate tissue of fibs help to win the war ? the military evidence looks compelling . a month after d-day , 22 german divisions were still held back from the normandy front . an order to move the formidable 1st panzer division there was rescinded specifically because garbo , in his florid " rococo " despatches , warned that normandy would be a diversion .  some historians remain sceptical about the value of second world war deception . eastern front crumbling and the german officer elite in near-open revolt against hitler , the d-day forces would have prevailed without the rich diet of disinformation fed to berlin by the agents . writers about espionage ( macintyre included ) feel a natural affinity for keyboard warriors who spin colourful yarns that command assent , and tend to overegg their tasty pudding .  in spite of these caveats , garbo and his deeply eccentric colleagues undoubtedly saved countless lives . in his history of d-day , the level-headed antony beevor writes that fortitude " proved more effective than the alllies had ever dared imagine " . macintyre 's gripping yarns may bring no major revisions to our map of the secret war : joshua levine 's book on fortitude appeared only last year . but they do show with captivating panache the debt that allied victory owed to these oddball storytellers , who wove around the actual army that liberated europe a " bodyguard of lies " .  in addition to garbo , macintyre traces the flights of fantasy foisted on their german handlers by dusko popov ( " ; by elvira de la fuente chaudoir ( " bronx " ) , the bisexual peruvian socialite and gambler ; by lily sergeyev ( " treasure " ) , the volatile french-russian agent who almost scuppered fortitude because the british terminated her beloved dog babs ; and by the polish undercover specialist roman czerniawski ( " brutus " ) , a tough pro among this cast of high-maintenance amateur primadonnas .  but did the abwehr ( german military intelligence ) really swallow all the fabrications that mi5 's shadow warriors fed them , prudently mixed with non-essential truth ? as macintyre 's tale unfolds , we come to ask how much this notoriously " disloyal " weak link in the nazi chain tacitly connived in strategic blunders that would hasten the downfall of the reich . messages intercepted at bletchley park by the enigma code-breakers prove that garbo and friends apparently retained their kudos and credibility until d-day and beyond . however , a suspicion remains that anti-nazi officers -- right up to alexis von roenne , who digested and presented intelligence for hitler - had rumbled the double cross its splendidly weird ploys and feints ( spy-pigeons figure frequently ) , macintyre 's book culminates in a stirring account of old-fashioned courage . " worldly , cynical , dissolute " , the german case-officer johnny jebsen - popov 's handler - was a louche playboy , high-society fraudster and pg wodehouse fan . always covertly anti-nazi , he had been " turned " by mi5 in 1943 . in april 1944 , jebsen was kidnapped in lisbon and spirited to berlin . it seems that anti-hitler officers feared he might unwittingly derail their plans to kill the f ? hrer .  once in the capital , though , pro-regime interrogators took charge . he was taken to the gestapo prison . on the eve of d-day , jebsen -- whom everyone assumed would instantly crack and squeal -- could have wrecked fortitude . yet , reduced by weeks of torture and maltreatment to a just-living skeleton , he said not a single word . macintyre salutes the astonishing bravery of a hedonist-turned-hero . and this ramifying network of improbable , often comic , fraud and fiction reaches its fitting -- broken in body , but not in spirit - who clung at death 's door to the code of the woosters : " never let a pal down " .