A cloud of fear: Greenpeace releases infra-red image of giant ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2125471/Total-gas-leak-Greenpeace-release-infra-red-image-explosive-gas-spewing-Elgin-rig.html

RELATED ARTICLES  Share this article  Christian Bussau , chief scientist and ocean expert at Greenpeace , insist they found evidence of pollution and that there was ' oil on the water surface ' and a ' chemical ' smell in the air .  Air and water samples are being sent for analysis at a German laboratory to find out what is creating the sheen on the surface .  Mr Bussau added : ' Although we are five kilometres away , we can feel here that this is contaminating and polluting the environment and this is dangerous for the environment and for the climate . '  But a spokesman from the platform operator , Total , said : ' The only confirmation that we have had of anything resembling an oil slick is a sheen of gas condensate . '  He added that this condensate was a light hydrocarbon - similar to petrol - and was expected to dissipate naturally , either evaporating due to warmer weather or through wave action .  Danger : The leak from the Elgin rig , from that and surrounding oil and gas platforms  Meanwhile , the French oil giant has further delayed plans to fly engineers to stem the 11-day leak of explosive gas .  This is due to continuing adverse weather conditions in the area , a company spokesman said yesterday .  Strong winds are reportedly blowing the gas cloud towards the spot where a helicopter carrying the team of crisis engineers would land - pushing relief efforts back to today or Friday .  The wind direction was initially forecast by the UK 's Met Office to change by yesterday evening and through this morning .  It would have blown gas away from the landing point and allowed a team of eight experts to assess the steps needed to stop the large and potentially explosive leak .  The company - which has calculated that the leak is costing it ? 1.6million a day - said on Tuesday that the team of engineers would assess conditions on the platform and find out whether a so-called ' well kill ' was feasible .  This would involve finding out whether any necessary .  Another , more expensive option also being pursued is to dig two relief wells to the source of the gas at 4,000 metres depth , far below the sea bed .  Experts have said that can take up to six months to complete . Total says it will push up daily costs to more than ? 2million .  Total 's share prices have dropped by 6.5 per cent since the leak was reported last week , knocking billions of pounds off its value .  The company said the team of engineers would consist of staff from Total and U.S. specialist company Wild Well Control .  Fire-fighters and engineers working for the Houston-based company are experts at disasters such as oil rig explosions and have been dubbed ' Hellfighters ' by Hollywood .  Yesterday , an offshore worker told of being one of the last men left on board the North Sea platform after the gas leak was first detected on March 25 .  William Cardno was one of the 19 men who stayed on board the Elgin platform to monitor the situation flights .  He said : ' When the first alarm was sounded , we had the helicopter on-scene within one hour .  ' And within an hour after that we had 107 people evacuated . An hour after that , we had the full 220 people evacuated .  ' We deliberately kept 19 people on board the platform to evaluate the situation and to see if there was anything we could do and really to maintain the systems . '  Close-up : Greenpeace say that the Total rig has a large gas cloud surrounding it and has left a condensed gas slick on the water  Mr Cardino added : ' If we had any escalation at all on the platform we were absolutely confident we could have been off the platform in five minutes by lifeboat .  ' We all practised our lifeboat drill and we checked the lifeboat and strapped ourselves into it . I think this demonstrated that our procedures are good and our process is good .  ' Although we never want these things to happen , when it does happen our paramount priority . '  The gas leak is spewing an estimated 200,000 cubic metres of natural gas from beneath the evacuated platform into the air per day , forming a highly explosive gas cloud .