Police in crisis after flood of racism complaints
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/crime/police-in-crisis-after-flood-of-racism-complaints-7622348.html

Police in crisis after flood of racism complaints  The Metropolitan police are now facing allegations of racism , abuse and violence involving at least fifteen officers Getty Images  The Metropolitan Police has revealed new allegations of racist abuse , bullying and violence involving at least 15 of its officers , threatening a return to the crisis that saw the force branded " institutionally racist " more than a decade ago .  The Met referred eight new cases to the police watchdog as part of a hasty review , which was ordered after a recording emerged of an officer calling a 21-year-old black man a " nigger " as he was being arrested after last summer 's riots . Senior officers are scrambling to stamp out the crisis and prevent a repeat of the years of soul-searching that followed the Macpherson inquiry 's damning report on the investigation of the murder of Stephen Lawrence in Eltham , south-east London , in 1993 .  The revelations also raise questions about the role of the Independent Police Complaints Commission ( IPCC ) , which is being . New allegations against police that came to light yesterday included :  * A racist attack against several youths in Hyde Park in 2011 which involved five police officers , all of whom remain on full duties ;  * Mishandling of calls with a " racial element " by a PC in the force 's central communication command in 2010 ;  * Claims that a group of officers in Newham , east London , used racist language . Three have been suspended .  * Racist bullying by police and civilian staff against community support officers over an 18-month period . Two police officers have been suspended ;  " We 're just glad that what we have seen for a long time has come out , " Estelle du Boulay , the director of the Newham Monitoring Project , told The Independent last night . " It 's a typical picture for us . "  The 10 cases which have come to light in the past week include an alleged attack on a 15-year-old boy in the custody suite at an east London police station . commissioner Craig Mackey , who led the review , said there could be more referrals to the IPCC in the future .  Six of the new cases involved officers blowing the whistle on colleagues , which Mr Mackey said showed the prevailing attitude in the force .  Details of the new allegations , which apparently date back to 2010 , emerged two days after the head of the Metropolitan Police , Bernard Hogan-Howe , made an appeal to staff to report any racist colleagues .  " The commissioner made it clear after the first alleged incident came to light last weekend that we take the issue of racism extremely seriously , " Mr Mackey said . " I want to reiterate -- there is no room for racism in the Met . "  Mr Mackey , who said the force had been working closely with the IPCC during the review , said the watchdog had agreed to look again at four cases , but was not able to say why .  In a statement , the IPCC contradicted the claims made by the Met . " Police and we will assess each case on its merits and make a decision regarding the level of IPCC involvement needed . At this stage , the IPCC has not agreed to investigate any of these latest referrals , " it said .  The Macpherson Inquiry led to a huge change in British policing after its damning report into the failure of police to convict anyone for the murder of Stephen Lawrence in 1993 . Two members of the racist white gang which stabbed the teenager to death were finally convicted earlier this year following a breakthrough in forensic science .  However , one of the panel members on the Macpherson Inquiry team , Dr Richard Stone , told The Independent that he still considered the force to be institutionally racist .