Model Safety
http://www.vogue.co.uk/news/2012/04/17/carole-white-jo-swinson---underage-models-debate

your vogue history  model safety  17 april 2012  lauren milligan  carole white , founder of premier model management  after premier founder and legendary model agent carole white met mp jo swinson to discuss the treatment of models under the age of 18 on bbc radio 4 's women 's hour , they decided to continue the discussion afterwards - with swinson paying a visit to premier 's offices . a productive visit ( " we can both talk ! " laughed white ) , they discussed model chaperoning ; the regulation of unscrupulous agents ; how models are scouted ; how agencies support models ; how the casting and booking process works ; and whether agencies should bear any responsibility for the shape of catwalk models , and the effect of the media 's promotion of thin as ideal on women generally .  " modelling agencies clearly take the view that they are catering for the market as it is , without passing judgement on whether our visual culture is healthy or to be welcomed , " swinson said . " , is that fashion designers , magazines and modelling agencies all claim they ca n't change the way things work , as the other parts of the system require them to design for , book or scout a particular type of girl . "  " i understand her point of view , " white said . " paris and ny want girls to be really too skinny and the designers should make their sample sizes more realistic , but i feel it will never change that much because the designers are selling a dream which is taken down and changed by the high street . on the catwalk , girls will always be tall and skinny . it is not as extreme as she believes but it 's always easy to pick on a young , pretty , tall , skinny girl is n't it ! ? "  so what needs to change ?  " child models should receive the same protection as child actors and be chaperoned to shoots and catwalk shows until they are 16 and arguably beyond , " swinson argued . " given the to 18 by 2015 , the industry should consider what impact this will have on the age of models they should employ . "  " obviously young models are chaperoned to a degree and often when they travel they have a parent with them , " white explained . " however if a model is used to london , and feels confident that they can get around , very often after a while they do n't want or need a chaperone . as agents we know all of our clients and are able to discuss with them if a girl needs someone with them or not . we always talk to the parents as well . "  " to my mind there should be more done about obese teenagers and education in nutrition and exercise which we do with all our models , " white added . " we want fit , healthy girls ; that is always our goal . "