SoftLayer tailors HPC clouds with GPU lining
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2012/04/17/softlayer_hpc_cloud/

recent articles  hosting and cloud computing service provider softlayer is getting into the modern hybrid supercomputer racket with the launch of gpu-enhanced server instances .  softlayer , which is based in dallas , was founded in 2005 and merged with hosting rival the planet before being bought up by gi partners , in 2010 . gi partners is a private equity company co-headquartered in menlo park and london that has $6bn in assets , including data center and telecom operators and real estate . softlayer is the resulting entity , and it has all the goodness of all the different firms wrapped up into a single package .  the company is privately held , but said back in december that it had over 100,000 servers under management in its various data centers and that it had over 25,000 customers worldwide using its infrastructure cloud , which it characterizes as the largest in the world . about half of those customers are located outside of the united states , and thus the company said last october that it was investing $75m over the next two network points of presence ( pops ) in london , frankfurt , and amsterdam to reach that demand .  softlayer had $85m in revenues in the quarter , and these metrics put it at a portion of the size of cross-state and openstack-obsessed rival rackspace hosting , which is based in san antonio and which had $264.6m in revenues , 78,717 servers , and 161,422 customers in the third quarter of 2011 .  both softlayer and rackspace developed their own infrastructure control software , but rackspace has thrown in with nasa to create the openstack project , hoping to forge an open source community that can go up against and beat the cloudy infrastructure stack from amazon 's web services behemoth . softlayer 's homegrown infrastructure management system tool can provision bare metal and virtual servers , and can be accessed either through the customer portal or through an api stack programmatically . and softlayer has no interest in moving to openstack or anything else at this time , mainly because the ims tool speaks bare metal as well as virty .  perhaps equally important for softlayer is hosted or virty servers so customers get the right iron for their specific jobs .  " whatever you want , we 'll crack open the box and drop it in , " simon west , chief marketing officer at softlayer , tells el reg . softlayer has about a dozen different default configurations of server nodes in its data centers , and keeps enough parts on hand in its chop shop so it can spin up any non-standard requests for 20 servers in about two hours . it might take six to eight hours to spin up 100 custom nodes . softlayer gets its servers and parts from super micro .  inside softlayer 's dallas data center ( click to enlarge )  the new gpu-goosed service from softlayer is available on the hosted servers , not cloud infrastructure , because for the most part customers who are running supercomputing code do n't want another layer of software abstraction burning up processor cycles , memory capacity , and i/o bandwidth . the hpc nodes are based on 3u supermicro bare-bones machines that are equipped with the two of the moment , softlayer is supporting intel 's xeon 2520 , 2650 , and 2690 processors in the hpc nodes , and you can add one or two of nvidia 's tesla m2090 gpu coprocessors to the box . these are the top-end tesla coprocessors ( at least until future coprocessors based on the " kepler " gpu ship later this year ) and deliver 665 gigaflops of double-precision floating point number crunching each .  a dedicated server node with a single xeon e5-2620 processor with 16gb of memory runs $500 a month , and adding a single gpu and a 500gb sata disk only boosts the price to $879 per month . considering that those gpus cost several thousand dollars a pop , clearly renting them from softlayer -- or any other service provider that can spin up a hybrid ceepie-geepie cloud -- is a good idea unless you know you can keep the infrastructure busy .  softlayer has two private ethernet networks that it uses internally within and across its data centers , which run at gigabit or 10 gigabit speeds . customers wanting to deploy hpc instances costs more to do so on the portions of the softlayer data centers that have 10ge switches reaching out to the server nodes . like amazon 's cluster compute instances , infiniband is not supported on the softlayer backbone , but if enough customers asked for it , then it would be easy enough to carve out a chunk of capacity to support infiniband .  a base operating system license , which includes a standard edition of windows server 2008 , or centos , red hat enterprise , or debian linux , is included in the price . suse linux enterprise server is not supported at the time , but you can , if you really want to , run the xenserver hypervisor from citrix systems on the hpc instances if you really want to . you can , of course , also load your own software stack onto the images , says west , provided you have paid for them . you have to install the job scheduling and cluster management software of your choice on the nodes .  softlayer operates 13 data centers around the world , six ) , houston , washington dc , singapore , and amsterdam . the hpc instances are available in san jose , seattle , dallas , singapore , and amsterdam , starting today . ?