Get started with Pinterest
http://www.pcadvisor.co.uk/how-to/internet/get-started-with-pinterest-3351544/

pinterest is a digital corkboard that shows other people what like from around the internet . here 's how to create an account and use the website .  step-by-step guide to the new online pinboard  facebook and twitter are obvious ways of sharing things on the web that you like , as of course is a personal blog or website . but there 's now a new way of sharing your favourite web items . pinterest is a digital corkboard that shows other people what you rate , what looks cute or appeals from a design or engineering point of view .  if you 're an avid user of all things google , gmail , picasa , blogger and youtube , sharing items via google+ may seem a more obvious option , while newshounds may prefer digg . pinterest offers a different slant , in which peer ratings are important . you indicate your admiration of other pinners ' taste in items on the web by having them on your pinterest boards and following them , if you wish . unlike twitter , which drop off the radar , pinned items stay on your page , ready for other people to delve into .  as with most social media websites , tags are at the heart of pinterest . having a decent photo or two also helps pique other peoples ' interest . the site is based around interest boards that you contribute to , create and share , and pinterest provides a selection of popular topic boards to get you started . the more ' pins ' a site or a pinterest user acquires , the higher their pinterest ranking . to see what 's popular , check out the ' popular ' link on the pinterest home page . it could n't be simpler .  you can follow or unfollow any pinterest member you wish , just as you can with twittter . if you 've linked your pinterest account with facebook rather than twitter , it 's ' likes ' that you 're after .  pinterest is nominally still an invite-only beta website . yet , it has more than 12 million members and - in the us - pinterest in march noted that uk usage is currently weighted the other way ; male users have embraced it .  pinterest originally invited craft and fashion bloggers to try out the service when it was in closed beta and there 's still a big focus on homespun choices such as family , home , diy &amp; crafts , fashion and cooking and the boards pinterest suggests reflect this . more ' male ' interests such as technology , cars and science are listed at the bottom of the initial home page , out of sight until you scroll down . you can add your own pinterest category ; the default list is rather safe .  as the site develops and new members with different interests join , these listings will change . as with all things social on the web , from digg to youtube to twitter , pinterest is user-driven and is shaped by members ' likes . what makes it more than of fleeting interest in that , unlike twitter , it 's not ephemeral . what you pin is a public , permanently accessible log of we just hope google does n't find a way of monetising such a concept and tracking what we view and pin for the benefit of ad traffickers everywhere .  how to get started with pinterest  1 . request a login at pinterest.com or accept an invitation from a friend . your email address and a password are all you need . click on any of the preset interest boards you wish and follow any that look particularly interesting . the find friends option under your account photo is a good starting point for finding and sharing pins with like-minded facebook and email friends .  2 . to start interacting on pinterest it 's easiest to add a bookmark for each of your boards in your web browser . these are actually bookmarklets - tiny applications that allow you to add items to your pinterest stash just by clicking on them when you stumble across something interesting on the web . in safari and chrome , for example , you just drag the pin it bookmark to the bookmark bar .  3 . another useful tool native to to browsing pinterest boards due to their visual appeal and the way they seamlessly lead on to each other . if you want to find something specific -- attractive business card ideas , for example -- head straight for search . bear this in mind when tagging and naming your own pins .  4 . if you find something you like on someone else 's board , click to ' repin ' it and add it to yours . this also has the effect of raising the item 's profile and that of its original ' pinner ' . you can also share likes and links via twitter and facebook by optionally sharing your repin .  5 . click pinners you follow at the top of the screen to see the latest updates from them . you can curate your own pinterest boards too . click on something you like . if it does n't fit neatly into one of the boards you 're following , scroll down to the bottom of the repin menuand click in the field to create one of your own .  6 . share items you like and have stumbled across -- you need to pin original items . pinterest etiquette dictates that the original pinner gets credit for repins . click the add button next to your profile , choose add a pin and then copy the pertinent page link . you can also upload images . a good photo and description will help ensure your pin is found .  7 . videos as well as photos can be shared on pinterest . channels for each are listed at the top of the page . you can also use pinterest to market your products ( be wary of overpromotion so you are n't deemed a spammer ) and to showcase your own talents to potential employees . items for sale are listed under gifts by rough price range . note that when you type in a figure and it will appear in us dollars .  8 . cute works well on pinterest , but it also works well for spammers . as with any website , you should be wary of the links you click on . we clicked on one dodgy photos and phishing are rare , but pinterest provides a reporting tool for these and spam to the right of each entry .  9 . once you 're following a few pinners and have several boards , it can be hard to keep up with the additions to pinterest . for desktop use , pinterest is easy enough to control via your web page . on the road , a smartphone app is ideal for uploading and sharing pins . there 's a free pinterest app for ios plus a handful of third-party ones , while android and windows phone users can use pinsensation.