Met police race row: Scotland Yard PC to be charged with racially ...
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/pc-alex-macfarlane-to-be-charged-with-racially-797466

the cps have concluded there is now " sufficient evidence " to prosecute pc alex macfarlane , who was allegedly recorded by the suspect on his mobile phone  shares  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  getty  a police officer is to be charged with racially abusing a suspect during the london riots last summer .  pc alex macfarlane of the metropolitan police was allegedly recorded by the suspect on his mobile phone as he was taken into custody .  the footage appears to show the scotland yard officer tell the 21-year-old black man : " the problem with you is you will always be a n***** , yeah ? that 's your problem , yeah . "  the case was investigated by the independent police complaints commission who passed the file to the crown prosecution service .  it was initially decided not to prosecute mr macfarlane , but the case was reviewed after the man 's lawyers complained .  the cps has now concluded that there conviction " .  the announcement came as the police watchdog announced a review of a string of complaints about racism at the metropolitan police , warning of the risks of " much wider disaffection and dissatisfaction " with the force .  there are now 11 separate allegations under investigation , involving 10 police officers .  alison saunders , chief prosecutor for london , said she had advised the independent police complaints commission to charge pc macfarlane despite the cps 's decision not to charge him in january .  " in march , the complainant 's lawyers challenged that decision and , in accordance with standard cps practice , grace ononiwu , deputy chief crown prosecutor for cps london , directed that the case be reviewed by a more senior lawyer who was not previously involved .  " that review is now complete and the conclusion , based on all the evidence now available , is that there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction to charge pc macfarlane with a racially aggravated public order offence contrary to section 4a of the public order act 1998 .  " when a review shows a previous decision not to prosecute is wrong , it is open to the cps to rectify that error by bringing new proceedings . "  ms saunders said the original cps decision was " regrettable " , adding that a prosecution was necessary to maintain public confidence .  pc macfarlane was stripped of his duties in relation to the mobile phone footage .  the arrested man , named as mauro demetrio , 21 , from beckton , east london , was held on suspicion of drug-driving in august last year but no action was later taken .  the charging announcement came as met commissioner bernard-hogan howe appeared before mps over the force 's review of racist allegations .  ms saunders said : " as chief crown prosecutor for london , i have taken the decision in this case that , as well as there being sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction , and a prosecution being in the public interest , a prosecution is necessary in order to maintain confidence in the criminal justice system . the code for crown prosecutors when reinstituting a prosecution .  " accordingly , i have advised the independent police complaints commission to charge pc macfarlane .  " it is regrettable that the original decision was wrong , but i hope the action taken and my decision today demonstrates the willingness of the cps to review its decisions independently and swiftly and to take appropriate action where necessary . "  an additional charge of assault relating to an allegation of " strangulation " will not be pursued , the cps said .  ms saunders added : " however , having now had opportunity to consider all available evidence , including the statements of others in the van alongside the recording , the lawyer reviewing the case concluded that the inconsistencies in the various accounts of what happened were such that no additional charge could properly be added .  " the inconsistencies included a dispute over the identity of the officer who took hold of the complainant - the complainant said that this was one officer but all other witnesses dispute this .  " there is also he took hold of the complaint , did so . he and other witnesses say it was in response to the complainant 's apparent aggression and in self-defence .  " i agree with the conclusion that , in the circumstances , there is insufficient evidence to meet the code test for bringing charges . "  another allegation of abuse by a police officer against a youth at forest gate police station remains under consideration , the cps said .