Quinton PCSO at the centre of saucy snaps storm
http://www.halesowennews.co.uk/news/9724769.Quinton_PCSO_at_the_centre_of_saucy_snaps_storm/

One officer said : " Everyone knows Rebecca is a good looking girl but it 's not very professional to post half-naked pictures of yourself on Facebook when you are patrolling the beat and preventing crimes .  Promoted stories  " I do n't think the bosses are aware of her sideline - I 'm sure they 'd insist she took the pictures off Facebook . "  Rebecca , who worked on the beat in Stourbridge before becoming a member of the neighbourhood policing team for Brockmoor and Pensnett , is believed to be on sick leave .  West Midlands Police refused to confirm or deny the PCSO 's involvement in the modelling shots -- citing data protection and privacy laws .  But speaking from her home in Quinton , her dad said she had posed for the images -- adding : " All girls do that kind of thing . "  Chief Inspector Julian Harper , from the force 's Professional Standards Department , said : " All officers and staff in West Midlands Police are advised that when they contribute consideration the fact they will be placing personal details into the public domain which may impact on their own privacy .  Share article  " They are accountable for whatever they put into the public domain and may be subject to misconduct procedures should there be any inappropriate use of social media .  " We have looked into the matter and found no cause for further action or comment . "  Ipsoregulated  This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here  It looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . Did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? Click here to learn more .  So we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @