Rihanna's had dreadlocks - and unsurprisingly, she's revealed them ...
http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/us-gossip/rihanna-with-dreadlocks-at-american-idol-final-845768

rihanna 's had dreadlocks - and unsurprisingly , she 's revealed them on twitter  she does n't really eat or breathe or do anything without putting it on twitter , so the method of reveal is n't a huge choice  shares  get celebs news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  twitter / rihanna  to be fair , she could basically carry off wearing a tesco bag on her head  when you reveal your whole life on twitter - your holiday snaps , your night out with some chelsea players , your nearly naked snaps ( a lot of nearly naked snaps ) - then it 's very unlikely you 'll get a new hairdo without telling the whole world about it .  step forward rihanna , who debuted her new dreadlocked ' do at the american idol final last night , where she performed where have you been .  twitter / rihanna  life probably is pretty funny when you 're rihanna to be honest  posting the picture on dreads ' which , er , we do n't really understand but then we 're not a youth like rihanna .  she performed with lots of topless men wearing , er , not many clothes and with a big piece of material hanging between her legs . style editor gilly , help us .  " it 's technically a maxi skirt , but there 's not a lot of max going on , " says gilly . " techncially it 's called a tiered maxi . "  ' technically ! ' we love gilly .  rex  ok , go on what would you call it ?  rex  ... and a different angle for your viewing pleasure  rex  if this was us , that material would move slightly to the left and it would be awful  rex  ... but that kind of thing does n't happen to rihanna  she also says it 's a bit like kylie and karen gillan 's skirt as sported at cannes this year .  she shouted " i love you , idol ! " up backstage at idol finale @jennnrosales dressed me #goraiders ' when she posed in a baseball cap .  so what do you think of rihanna 's new hair ? prefer it blonde/ huge/ in any of the other billions styles she 's rocked over the years ? let us know below .  recently published  using 140 characters or less , can somebody please tell this lot to put some clothes on ? scan down for the most naked gallery your eyes have ever seen ( unless you 're into rude stuff ) ( and that 's your own business )