'Avengers' expands universe with 'Ultron' as Marvel goes dark
http://bdnews24.com/entertainment/2015/04/27/avengers-expands-universe-with-ultron-as-marvel-goes-dark

' avengers ' expands universe with ' ultron ' as marvel goes dark  the caped crusaders are back in force in " avengers : age of ultron , " but this time , the evil they battle is bringing them face to face with the darker consequences of being a super hero .  " age of ultron , " the sequel to walt disney co 's 2012 marvel blockbuster " avengers " and out in us theaters on friday , will see its star-studded super hero ensemble - iron man , thor , black widow , captain america , the hulk and hawkeye - tackle their own fears .  writer-director joss whedon said he wanted to " perform a little open heart surgery " on the avengers , and " let the audience experience them on a more personal level than they ever have before . "  in " age of ultron , " marvel 's super hero worlds come crashing together as the super heroes tackle a complex villain in ultron ( james spader ) , spawned out of artificial intelligence and pietro ( aaron taylor-johnson ) , known as quicksilver for his super speed , and wanda ( elizabeth olsen ) , the scarlet witch with thought-altering magic powers , ultron makes the avengers at times turn on themselves .  robert downey jr , marvel 's iron man and patriarch of the franchise , said given the present day " world stage , " now is the time for the avengers to get real .  " this is where you have to actually start dealing with the ramifications of saving the world , " he said .  business of going dark  the trend toward somber super heroes has already proved to be a winner at the box office for other studios . the 2013 superman film " man of steel , " from time warner inc 's warner bros , made more than $660 million worldwide . the studio 's " dark knight " batman trilogy grossed more than $2 billion globally between 2005 and 2012 .  olsen said " age of ultron " allows audiences to see the " most human versions " of the seemingly emotional and more based on the characters as people , as opposed to super heroes , " she said .  " avengers " became the third-highest grossing film of all-time , and " age of ultron , " made for $250 million , is expected to match , and possibly surpass , its predecessor 's $1.5 billion take at the global box office .  the strategy to tackle more serious themes may aid the film 's box office , said entertainment industry analyst hal vogel , " because it seems to reflect a change in the social mood . "  ahead of its us debut on friday , " age of ultron " amassed $201.2 million across 44 countries , outpacing its predecessor 's opening weekend take .  unlike the first film in which the avengers ' battle wreaked destruction without consequences on manhattan , " age of ultron " shows the super heroes very conscious of the human cost of their war against evil .  in one scene where iron man and the hulk obliterate a skyscraper , the aftermath drew comparisons to the very " it 's a very fine line , and that may be a place we crossed it - we were all worried about that , " whedon said . " at the same time we felt it would be disingenuous to say these guys trashed a city and there 's no consequences . "