Flying doctor drops in at corrections facility
http://www.odt.co.nz/regions/otago/139621/flying-doctor-drops-corrections-facility

flying doctor drops in at corrections facility  bulls gp dr dave baldwin ( right ) with son marc at dunedin international airport beside the bulls flying doctor service 's cessna . marc is the operations manager at the service . photo by craig baxter  irrepressible bulls gp dr dave baldwin likes being behind bars , and not just because it gives him a captive audience .  he visited the otago corrections facility in milburn on sunday to deliver to about 40 inmates one of his " very non-pc " talks on how to be a " healthy bastard " .  dr baldwin , who has lost count of how many addresses he has given since his down-to-earth book spelling out men 's health issues , healthy bastards , was published last year , said he appreciated being able to speak inside prisons because it gave him a chance to get his message to the " real oil " .  " do n't get me wrong , but when i talk to a lot of groups , i am talking to a lot grateful for the department of corrections " getting in behind me " , support which had not yet been forthcoming from the ministry of health , acc or a corporate backer .  although sometimes those who asked him to speak paid some expenses , he really needed financial backing to push his campaign to get the unhealthy to change their " evil ways " .  dr baldwin believed his approach , using some basic humour to help get across a serious message , was more effective than " fancy pamphlets or glossy brochures " for many men , particularly those who might not be competent readers .  sunday 's talk was scheduled to fit in with one of dr baldwin 's regular visits with the bulls flying doctor service , which involves him flying from bulls , near palmerston north , to the south in his cessna to undertake medical checks for pilots in rural areas .  however , this time , unusually , he had an entourage , his own film crew , which is working on a film encompassing the beauty of the south island healthiest bastard in the bush " , and his mission to get men to pay the same attention to their bodies as they would a favourite car or motorbike .  he decided on the film , which will be completed early next year , after plans for a television series , based on his book , fell through .  at milburn , he drew some applause when he showed some of the high country footage filmed from the air which is to be included in the film .  the talk was well-received , with several people asking questions , and many taking the opportunity to speak briefly to dr baldwin afterwards .