Hopes 3-D DVD will help save cyclists' lives
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/dunedin/139568/hopes-3-d-dvd-will-help-save-cyclists-lives

Hopes 3-D DVD will help save cyclists ' lives  New Zealand Police road policing national manager Superintendent Paula Rose and Dunedin and Clutha area commander Inspector Dave Campbell watch a 3-D clip on cycle safety developed by Dunedin company Taylormade Media . Photo by Craig Baxter .  A bright idea by a Dunedin police sergeant will help prevent cyclists dying on New Zealand roads , the New Zealand Police roading manager predicts .  A five-minute 3-D clip , which gives viewers a chance to see the potential hazards facing cyclists and motorists alike , was yesterday launched in Dunedin .  Given the recent spate of cycling deaths , the release of the DVD was " timely " , road policing national manager Superintendent Paula Rose said .  " If it prevents one crash , it will be worth it . "  The idea for the DVD came from Sergeant Jan Craig , after she read about funding available for road safety initiatives .  Her idea of creating a 3-D cycle-safety DVD was made possible with a $75,000 grant .   Supt Rose , an avid cyclist , said she regularly saw bad behaviour from cyclists and motorists .  It was apparent people needed to learn how to better share the road .  " Initiatives like this will certainly help improve road safety , prevent crashes and save lives . "  The DVD , filmed around Dunedin and which features sobering crash statistics , is likely to be distributed nationally and made available for driver training , to cycling organisations and for school educational programmes .  Sgt Craig , a family violence intervention co-ordinator , recognised the importance of road safety after witnessing first-hand lives being ruined as a result of a momentary lack of judgement on the country 's roads .  " It just takes a second to change someone 's life forever . "  The DVD was to have featured one of her friends , but a replacement had to be found after she was injured in an accident with a motorist in Forbury Rd , Dunedin .  The DVD features potential hazards such as motorists tail-gating , opening car doors and said cyclists were protected only by lycra and a helmet and the launch of the DVD was welcome .  While New Zealand motorists had a reputation as being " impatient " , cyclists should also obey traffic rules .  The recent cycling fatalities made her " feel sick to the stomach " and education was the key to prevent future incidents , she said .