Kiwi killed serving with British in Afghanistan
http://www.stuff.co.nz/national/4429248/Kiwi-killed-serving-with-British-in-Afghanistan

Relevant offers  The Kiwi killed in action while serving with British troops in Afghanistan was a proud New Zealander and passionate soldier , his family says .  Former Wellington College student Private John " Jack " Howard , 23 , was killed on Sunday while fighting for the British army in Nad ' Ali .  Britain 's Defence Ministry is investigating whether Howard , a paratrooper , was killed by friendly fire during a US air strike called in to support his unit .  Howard travelled to England to enlist in the force in March 2007 . He was on his second tour of Afghanistan .  Howard 's two sisters , Isabella and Charlotte , and his parents Ann and Roger fronted media at Wellington college , his old school , this afternoon .  Howard 's father , reading a prepared statement , said the family was " absolutely devastated to lose our son , brother , grandson , nephew and cousin " .  He said Howard was immensely proud to be both a paratrooper and a New Zealander . and was never prepared to accept less than the best . "  " It was down to luck , and on Saturday his luck ran out , " Roger Howard said .  Howard 's mother , Anne Scott , said her son : " was his own man ... If he wanted something , he did it . "  Jack 's younger sisters said he was a protective older brother .  Asked what they would miss most , they said the fun banter the family shared .  " The day before he died we were posting stuff on his Facebook wall and having a laugh ... "  ' STRAFING RUN '  The Guardian newspaper reported Howard was killed by cannon fire from a low-flying US jet .  The plane - believed to be an F18 - was on a strafing run , flying low while firing at targets on the ground , after it was called in by British troops engaged in a gunfight with insurgents , the newspaper reported .  Weather conditions when Howard was killed were bad after a sand had been grounded for 36 hours due to the poor flying conditions , the Telegraph reported .  The ministry said : " Further to the announcement of the death of a soldier from 3rd Battalion The Parachute Regiment in Nad ' Ali yesterday , initial reports suggest that the death was caused as a result of a friendly fire incident .  " The incident will be the subject of a full investigation ; however first reports indicate that an attack on an insurgent position by a US aircraft , requested by and agreed with British forces on the ground , may have been the cause .  " The investigation is ongoing and as such it would be inappropriate to comment further at this stage , " the ministry said in a statement .  Two other British soldiers were injured in the incident , the BBC reported .  The soldier was fighting with the Parachute Regiment 's 3rd Battalion as part of an operation to increase security in the Nad ' Ali district of Helmand province .  ' UNIQUE , ARTISTIC ' GUY  High school unique " guy .  " At school he was very artistic . He was the year above me but we took drama together and acted in a couple of plays together , " Templeton said .  " He was really , really happy to speak his mind and confident in his opinion . He was really straight up and people liked that . "  He said Howard was also a lot of fun . His friends had been shocked to hear of the news .  " We 're a small Wellington community - there 's been a lot of texts and messages going around , " Templeton said .  " It 's just so strange to think of people dying in wars , in Afghanistan . "  Howard had left university after his first year to join the paratroopers . He was posted in the United States , Kenya , Norway and France and had only been back to New Zealand on holidays .  He told student news site Newswire , while on a visit to New Zealand in September , that he had interested in the military so I decided to give it a go after I saw an ad for the paratroopers on the internet . "  Howard had been member of the Air Training Corps while at high school .  His former squadron leader , unit commander Nigel Robinson , said he was an " extremely keen " cadet who had always shown an interest in the forces .  " He was very active . We are very much involved in the outdoors , and he was very good at bush craft , camping and tramping and that sort of thing , " Robinson said .  It was a shock to hear he had been killed , he said .  " There 's always a risk if you 're going into a conflict zone but it 's much different when it 's one of your own . "  A friend , who last saw Howard in Spain in 2007 , said he was a " nice guy " who was " so excited when he got into the paratrooping unit " .  WORDS OF SUPPORT " a very sad event " .  " We want to pass our condolences to the family . "  He was a " fine young New Zealander and we are sad to lose him in Afghanistan " .  He had n't been " formally advised " of the soldier 's name , but would be talking to the British High Commissioner Vicki Treadell this afternoon .  Key said any probe into Howard 's death would be handled by the British army .  Labour leader Phil Goff , whose nephew was killed in Afghanistan in 2007 while serving in the US military , offered his condolences .  " Having been through that experience myself my heart goes out to the family of the young man who was killed . "  Major General Richard Rhys Jones , announced yesterday as the next head of the New Zealand 's Defence Force ( NZDF ) , said the family had asked for privacy .  " I 'd like to say to the family our condolences to them , " he told Radio New Zealand .  " very difficult environment and tragically was killed trying to protect what he considered important in his life . "  The British High Commissioner said the death was " very sad and deeply regrettable " .  " In this particular instance it is one that affects both our countries and we will work together at an official level . "  ' HE MADE THE ULTIMATE SACRIFICE '  A spokesman for Task Force Helmand , Lieutenant Colonel David Eastman , said it was with regret that he announced the death .  " He has made the ultimate sacrifice protecting the people of Nad-e Ali from insurgent intimidation and defending his country from the threat of terrorism ; no more could be asked of any soldier . He will be greatly missed by all who knew him . "  Family members are understood to have met a representative of the New Zealand Defence Force yesterday .  Defence Minister Wayne Mapp said the Defence Force was supporting the family and he had been briefed on the incident .  " I know the British government is undertaking a could have happened . Since he was serving in the British army it 's the British government that undertakes the investigation ( but ) clearly we are interested in the outcome . "  NEW ZEALANDERS IN AFGHANISTAN  Earlier this year , another New Zealander serving with the British Army saved his comrades from a hand grenade in Afghanistan .  Rifleman James McKie lobbed the grenade back at the enemy after it landed at his feet during a firefight .  The Wellington-born soldier was awarded the Conspicuous Gallantry Cross , which is expected to be presented by senior royal family members this month .  Lieutenant Tim O'Donnell is the only New Zealand Defence Force soldier to be killed in Afghanistan .  The 28-year-old died in August after his patrol was attacked in Bamiyan province .  His name was added to the war memorial in his home town of Feilding last month .