Hobbled Hurley exceeds targets
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/sport/4425511/Hobbled-Hurley-exceeds-targets

hobbled hurley exceeds targets  dust and dirt : it 's rush-hour traffic at turn one during the taranaki motocross championships on saturday with two local men , bevan adlam ( bike no 11 ) and aaron jane ( no 16 ) , snatching the early lead . daryl hurley ( 912 ) , john phillips ( 210 ) and brad groombridge ( 701 ) are close behind .  relevant offers  it was triple celebration time for hawera 's daryl hurley at the taranaki motocross championships near new plymouth on saturday afternoon .  making a comeback from injury that had kept him off a motorcycle for almost a year , hurley had been hoping merely to survive the fierce day 's action at the popular barrett road motorcycle park . the kiwi international was still very concerned that if he put a foot wrong , he would aggravate his heel injury and further prolong his recovery .  but , not only did the suzuki star survive , the 34-year-old also won the day in his mx2 ( 250cc ) class and even came -- that honour instead going to waitakere rider shaun fogarty , on a 350cc ktm .  to put the icing on the cake , the event was also being used as a fundraiser for hurley 's club and that was also a huge success .  " i still need further surgery in may and i had a bit of pain today but , i guess , adrenaline takes some of that pain away .  " i 'd like to ride the nationals but we 'll still have to see how everything feels by then .  " if i 'm struggling when the nationals kick off near timaru in february , then it will be pointless me trying to race , but i passed the first test today .  " my fitness is better than i thought it would be . "  fogarty was also pleased with his day .  " this is all part of my buildup to the nationals and could n't have gone much better , " said the 28-year-old .  " it was hard work in this heat and difficult "  in addition to hurley and fogarty , a flood of top talent from near and far had arrived in taranaki at the weekend to assist the taranaki motorcycle club in its bid to raise funds for the purchase of land adjacent to the motocross park facility , and club president dave furze was all smiles .  " we 're on the way . the turnout of top riders was awesome and we 're grateful to have that support for the club , " he said .  " we are already one of the very few clubs in the country to own their own facility and , if and when we can purchase the additional land , we will also become one of the very few clubs in the country able to offer a permanent supercross facility as well as motocross and trail riding areas . "  among the stars who came out to play on saturday was recently retired former world champion shayne king and his elder brother darryll king , a two-time 500cc world championship runner-up .  other kiwi internationals in the mix included the mx2 class from his employer , hurley , if he had not instead crashed spectacularly in the day 's final race .  others to impress included rotorua 's john phillips , who will leave shortly to take up a position with a race team in the united kingdom , otago 's campbell king , waitakere 's broc martens , new plymouth 's dougy herbert , taupo 's alex dillon , taranaki quartet kade adlam , bevan adlam , aaron jane and mark burling , matamata brother and sister jacob and kelly kneebone , levin 's james anderson , auckland 's kurtis lilly and the chase brothers from taupo , cohen and wyatt .