Courting local wood furniture makers
http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20101114/business/business3.html

Courting local wood furniture makers  In any home , elegant wood furniture is functional and makes it inviting .  Jamaicans , known for their hospitality the world over , as well as their creativity , have expressed these two traits through their craftsanship for the home . For centuries , Jamaican artisans have excelled at providing items that are creative , distinctive , unique , and durable .  To this day , these artisans are described by manufacturers and retailers alike as naturally gifted craftsmen .  Courts Jamaica Limited Managing Director Hayden Singh recalls that decades ago , Jamaican mahogany furniture - the Heritage range - could be found in leading retailers in the United Kingdom such as John Lewis and Debenhams .  Today , signature distinctive Jamaican pieces are found in local homes , antique stores , from individual furniture makers , and from Courts , the largest retailer of locally made furniture nationwide .  Catering to the typical Jamaican consumer , Courts provides a full range of furniture options for the home . Wherever they operate , it is economic activity .  In Jamaica , the dynamics of the local furniture industry have made Courts far more than just a retailer .  The company starts very early in the value chain supporting training and apprenticeship programmes and providing scholarships for artisans to get the best training .  These are , for example , the Manufacturers Apprentice Devel-opment Programme and Junior Management Programme .  bulk buying  To assist with procurement of materials , Courts undertakes bulk buying and sells to manufacturers at cost .  Working closely with manufacturers , Courts has brought Canadian Executive Services Overseas to Jamaica for knowledge sharing on finishing techniques , effective use of materials , and operational efficiency .  Courts ' buyers visit factories and work with the 30-plus individual manufacturers to ensure they meet quality standards with respect to raw materials used and the method of construction . Quality-control measures are undertaken upon receipt as Courts may randomly strip down furniture as well .  When it comes time for payment , Courts pays within days of being invoiced , rather than the customary 30- 60- or 90-day 29 locations nationwide , Courts provides direct employment for 1,000 persons and another 2,500 contracted persons .  Throughout the recession , Courts has had no redundancies , and in fact , Courts has hired additional staff beyond filling positions left vacant through attrition .  improved experience  The stores have been recently redesigned to improve the retailing experience for customers , and expansion is under way for the Bogue store in Montego Bay , as well as the Savanna-la-Mar and Falmouth locations .  Overseas , the company has successfully opened the first location in New York for Jamaicans to buy furniture for family and friends here . Expansion will be determined by diaspora demand .  But with all this support to manufacturing and retail expansion , Singh notes that sales of locally made items have declined from 80 per cent of total sales to about 60-65 per cent .  Why ? Because with globalisation , it is challenging for local products to compete effectively on price , and moreover , globalisation has brought a change in consumer taste preferences .  Which leads us to the the challenges of globalisation ? Singh will tell you yes .  Having made a US$200-million investment , the El Salvadorean parent , known for buying local whenever invested , is here for long term .  The manufacturers will also tell  you yes . In fact , Singh believes export potential is possible , and he should know , with Courts ' reach with 400 stores in Central America and the Caribbean .  How can Jamaica capitalise on opportunities to truly develop a viable furniture industry to continuously supply a global retailer like Courts ? Industry experts suggest a public-private partnership could be created to enable the private sector to invest in the sector , with necessary equipment to enable economies of scale .  Sharing of equipment maximises utilisation and allows for recouping the investment for that equipment .  eliminate problems  Currently unutilised empty government-owned factories could be converted to incubators providing the infrastructure to house various manufacturers who could share the equipment required to make commercial quantities and items that can be flat-packed for export .  With a public-private partnership , demand could to the market could better identify what the consumer wants and would pay for .  With greater assurance of markets and pooled resources , there can be better scheduling to eliminate the problem of missed deadlines - a perennial problem in a fragmented industry long on talent but short on resources .  As for changing consumer preferences , there are a few Jamaican contract manufacturers who do produce to meet these tastes . Different wood types - teak , cedar , wild tamarind , jatoba , and more modern designs can be found in leading hotels in Jamaica and exported to the Caribbean .  Customised and unique . For indoor and outdoor . And all could easily stand tall in the finest international periodicals of home design and decor .  Jamaica 's competitive advantage in creativity is evident in the work of our gifted craftsmen . With a partnership , this advantage could result in steady employment and increased growth potential for Jamaica .  Deika Morrison is managing director of Mdk Advisory &amp; Consulting Limited . She is compiling a catalogue of Jamaican-made products and support @ @ @