LIME to offload field operations - HY losses mount to J$1b
http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20101110/business/business1.html

lime to offload field operations - hy losses mount to j$1b  lime jamaica is selling off a piece of the company to a global telecoms company , the company disclosed this week , further clarifying the exploratory talks under way with a global telecoms provider .  " the company is in the process of exploratory talks with a global service provider to examine the feasibility of the sale or disposition of that part of the business comprised of its field service operations , " said lime in a precise statement to shareholders .  " the talks are geared at examining opportunities to achieve cost savings and improved customer service . "  lime is saying little about the talks , citing stock market rules in jamaica and the home market of its unnamed partner . but the field operations would likely include the mobile network , installation and repair infrastructure and some , if not all of its fixed line or pstn operations .  in the midst of the discussions , the company also announced the resignation of its vice-president of finance grace  it appears , said one telecoms source , that british parent cable and wireless is selling off the assets of the jamaican operation , whose debts have now accumulated to j$7 billion , potentially leaving lime in control of the marketing and selling functions . the majority of the company 's value would be in the mobile network , into which lime continues to pump fresh capital to upgrade and expand its 3g network , sources said .  big business  the talks with the buyer are being steered from london , wednesday business was told . it is understood that the acquisition partner , a global services company , has done big business in the recent past with lime jamaica during the reconstruction and reconfiguration of its mobile and broadband services .  meantime , lime jamaica continues to bleed at the bottom line - losing half a billion on falling sales in the second quarter ending september and j$1.14 billion in the half-year period . revenues were down by one billion to j$9.4 billion in the six-month period .  the net losses , though steep , company lost 10.93 cents per share , compared to 6.81 cents this cycle .  in the past year , lime has booked charges of j$1.2 billion linked to the write-off of its old mobile network . but the company continues to depreciate its assets at about a rate of j$1 billion per quarter . its remaining fixed assets at balance sheet date was valued at just under j$24 billion .