IS group confirms 'Jihadi John' death
http://www.dhakatribune.com/world/2016/jan/20/group-confirms-jihadi-john-death

the islamic state group 's propaganda magazine has confirmed the british militant known as jihadi john died in a drone strike in november .  the group published an obituary for the jihadist , whose real name was mohammed emwazi , in its online magazine dabiq .  in november the us military said it was " reasonably certain " it had killed him in the is-stronghold of raqqa .  emwazi appeared in beheading videos of victims including uk aid worker david haines and taxi driver alan henning .  in the eulogy , kuwaiti-born emwazi is referred to as abu muharib al-muhajir , his nickname in the group and the details of his death confirm the us version of events .  the jihadist group said emwazi was killed on 12 november " as the car he was in was targeted in a strike by an unmanned drone in the city of raqqa , destroying the car and killing him instantly " .  a smiling picture of the militant , who appears unmasked looking towards the ground , accompanies the text , which is an " honourable brother " .  emwazi first emerged in august 2014 when he appeared masked in a video in which us journalist james foley was apparently murdered .  dubbed " jihadi john " by the media , he was identified as emwazi , a computer programming graduate who grew up in london , in february 2015 .  he also appeared in videos of the beheadings of us journalist steven sotloff , mr haines , mr henning , as well as american aid worker abdul-rahman kassig , also known as peter , and japanese journalist kenji goto .  he became a top target for us and british intelligence agencies , even though he is thought to have played no military role within is .  at the time of his reported death in november , prime minister david cameron said targeting emwazi had been " the right thing to do " .  he said the uk had been working with its us allies " literally around the clock " to track emwazi down .  three drones - one british and two american - were involved the car , and it is believed there was one other person in the vehicle .  mohammed emwazi  1988 : born in kuwait , moves to uk in 1994 aged six  educated at the quintin kynaston community academy in st john 's wood , north london  fluent in arabic and english and a british citizen  2009 : completes computing degree at university of westminster , travels to tanzania , amsterdam and kuwait  2013 : tries to travel to kuwait but is stopped . disappears . parents report him missing . police tell family four months later he has entered syria  civil war erupted in syria in 2011 , and now president bashar al-assad 's government , is , an array of syrian rebels and kurdish fighters all hold territory . millions have been displaced and more than 250,000 people killed as a result of the fighting .  more than 750 people from the uk are thought to have travelled to support or fight for jihadist organisations in syria and iraq , and approximately half of those have returned , home secretary theresa may @ @ @ @