BPL 4 to re-start on Nov 8
http://www.dhakatribune.com/sport/cricket/2016/11/05/28971/

bpl 4 to restart on nov 8  according to the bpl 's schedule , barisal will face dhaka this tuesday in the early game . in the evening game , comilla are slated to take on chittagong  in accordance with the existing schedule , the fourth edition of the bangladesh premier league twenty20 will start this tuesday . this was announced by the bpl governing council in a press conference in mirpur 's sher-e-bangla national cricket stadium on saturday .  " we sat for a meeting in the afternoon . representatives from all franchises were present in the meeting . bangladesh cricket board president nazmul hasan was also present . all the decisions have been taken with everyone 's consent , " bpl gc member secretary ismail haider mallick told the media .  " it has been raining since friday . according to weather forecasts , it will continue to rain in the next couple of days as well . so the bpl gc has decided to start the tournament on november 8 , " he said .  the decisions were taken of bengal . the depression has caused gloomy weather and inclement conditions in the capital , along with several parts of the country .  among other developments , saturday and sunday 's matches will be shifted to the gap days of the existing fixture , mallick said , referring to november 10 and 14 respectively .  he added , " we might arrange a third match in a single day . in that case , the game will start at 10am . if we play two matches per day then we can use the spare date in the chittagong fixture ( november 20 ) as well . "  as far as friday 's matches are concerned , khulna titans and rangpur riders have both agreed for a rematch but it was learned that holders comilla victorians and rajshahi kings are still undecided over a rematch or share of the points .  meanwhile , the victorians ' owner nafisa kamal expressed disappointment regarding the ongoing issue and demanded one point each from their first two matches . besides their match against the kings , the victorians were scheduled we were informed at 1:30pm via sms saturday about a meeting at 4pm . no official announcement regarding the rescheduling of the tournament has arrived yet ( since 8pm while this report was being filed ) . when a match has been called abandoned by the match referee , then it can not be rescheduled . it is out of the rule . we want one point from each of the two matches , " said nafisa .  according to the existing schedule , barisal bulls will face the dynamites this tuesday in the early game . in the evening game , the victorians are slated to lock horns with chittagong vikings .  highlights from saturday 's meeting  * bpl 4 to restart on november 8 , tuesday  * barisal bulls will take on dhaka dynamites in tuesday 's first game while comilla victorians will face chittagong vikings in the evening tie  * saturday and sunday 's matches set to be played on november 10 or 14 or 20 .  * the fate of friday 's matches still undecided . all the four teams involved -- either a share of the points or a rematch