A dad for all seasons
http://www.dhakatribune.com/op-ed/2016/jun/19/dad-all-seasons

Being a father means being there for your child  Royena and Mamun had a small family of two . One day , there arrived a little angel who they named Tia . The parents were nervous .  How would they take care of a baby ? They did n't have anyone to teach them parenting , and they did n't have an extra pair of hands to help them out with housework .  After thinking for a while , Royena and Mamun decided to do all the work by themselves . They started to sort out their tasks one by one .  Mamun took a month 's leave from his work for his beloved Tia , and to make some scope for Royena to have few days of proper sleep , and a bit of leisure .  He always intended to wrap Tia with the warm love of a father . Royena also constantly made herself busy with all the necessary and unnecessary things related to Tia . Cooking and other household chores were usually divided equally among themselves .  Mamun They could n't care less .  Mamun might sound like a fictional character , but every family would do well to have a dad like him . It 's been tradition to bring pregnant mothers to their paternal houses right before childbirth . The reasoning being that it is important to take an experienced person 's advice when it comes to parenting .  However , in our society , parents often forget another equally important issue : Creating a bond between father and child .  Staying away from the dad for an extended period of time makes children dependent only on their moms , and in the future , they may face difficulties to get rid of that dependency .  Think a bit . When these new moms go back to their own nuclear families and think of joining work , they have to face huge problems , because their child has simply not spent enough time with his or her father .  This may cause moms to devote themselves to 24/7 child-rearing on top of their office work .  This is a mental breakdown difficult job , a lot of moms leave their careers for that . That often makes them depressed . The dad 's role is very significant , because only a mature and mentally capable partner can relieve the mother from her anxiety .  There are no gender roles when it comes to parenting . It is well past time for society to understand that child-rearing is not just a mother 's job .  By nature , children are dependent on moms for certain things . However , most things can be provided by the father .  Fathers can bathe the children , feed them , make them sleep , and look after them when mommy is tired .  Dads often do n't face the challenges of child-rearing because of social norms . But dads need to ask themselves : When the mom suffers from overwork and lack of sleep and fails to take proper care of the children , who will be the ultimate sufferer ? The children , and the father himself .  Dads -- whatever your mothers , aunts , or in-laws may say beside the new moms . It 's your responsibility to do so . Nowadays , many offices grant paternity leave .  In that time , you can spend some precious time with your newborn , and your partner . If your wife is staying with your parents , visit them often . Do n't just be a visitor . Be a dad .  Many partners have a tendency to take the paternal leave and spend it on themselves . This brings dissatisfaction to their partners .  The elders of the family have an important role to play . Dads should n't be away , but close to their babies .  In nuclear families , when moms get busy with other household chores , if dads are there to take care of the children for a while , moms would get a chance to catch their breath .  Remember : Children will not be scared of dads anymore , but run towards them with a smile . Giving children money or only providing food is not the only role dads need to live up to .  walk them through the ups and downs of life .  Dads -- if you do n't involve yourselves in the lives of your children , one day your child might ask their mother who the strange man in the house is.