Towns shut down as Cyclone Rusty rolls in
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/australia/8357056/Towns-shut-down-as-Cyclone-Rusty-rolls-in

People in Western Australia sheltering from a category four cyclone in the Pilbara are likely to be stuck inside for some time as the intense weather system , bringing destructive winds and dangerous flooding with it , makes its way across the region very slowly .  It 's one of two duelling weather systems wreaking havoc on the east and west coasts of Australia .  People in the Pilbara from Pardoo to Whim Creek including Port Hedland and South Hedland , are on " red alert " as cyclone Rusty moves towards the area .  It is likely the alert will not be downgraded for some time and they may have to stay sheltered for up to 36 hours .  The Department of Fire and Emergency Services has urged people to be patient , saying the weather poses a threat to lives and homes .  The cyclone has brought strong winds to the area , despite still being off the coast , and will slowly move over the area , meaning highly dangerous winds and rain are expected to continue into Thursday and one in South Hedland - are reportedly close to capacity .  More than a dozen schools in the area are closed and hundreds of houses in the area were without power .  People in low lying areas of Port Hedland , were urged to relocate because of fears of a storm surge in the area .  This morning , Rusty was estimated to be 130 kilometres north-north-east of Port Hedland and 290 kilometres east-north-east of Karratha and near stationary .  Wind gusts to 120kmh have already been experienced in Port Hedland and winds exceeding 230kmh were likely to develop .  EAST COAST SWAMPED  On Australia 's east coast , a number of central Queensland towns and hamlets have been isolated by floodwaters for the second time in two months after torrential rains .  Rusty 's influence was being widely felt as it brought clouds and rain across the continent , reaching Victoria . " It 's moisture streaming from Rusty , " said Brett Dutschke , senior meteorologist at Weatherzone .  Combined with moisture coming off the Pacific , " it 's the country , forecasters said .  Rivers have broken their banks in the Banana , Gladstone and Fraser Coast regions of Queensland .  Banana Shire Mayor Ron Carrige said all roads leading to the town of Biloela were swamped by floodwaters .  ' ' We 're pretty well stranded at the moment , ' ' he told AAP . ' ' We 're cut off north , south , east and west . ' '  Some farmers had just started replanting after floods last month .  ' ' I do n't know how much more you can wreck things that are already wrecked , ' ' Carrige said .  And the council was n't sure when the floodwaters would recede .  ' ' I want to get home myself . All we can do is watch it and see , ' ' Carrige said .  Southeast of Bileola , Maryborough was preparing for the Mary River to peak at seven metres about 8am ( 10am NZT ) on Thursday .