Tackling the 'sum insured' challenge
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/money/8796798/Tackling-the-sum-insured-challenge

opinion : until recently in new zealand it 's been usual to insure your home on the basis of total replacement cover . this meant that you would provide information to your insurance company about the size of your home and , if it was destroyed , then your insurer would arrange to demolish the damaged structure and rebuild you a new dwelling to the same size and specification as it was before .  there was no limit on the amount your insurer was required to spend in order to replace your home .  since the christchurch earthquakes , many new zealand insurers have changed the basis of their home insurance policies ; they now require you to specify a " sum insured " for your home . this means that if your home is damaged or destroyed then the sum insured is the maximum amount the insurer will be prepared to spend to remedy the damage .  the onus is now on you to tell your insurer the cost to rebuild your house . if you under-estimate the cost and your house is your home to the same size and specification as it was before .  it 's also worth noting that the rateable value of your home does n't have a direct bearing on the cost to rebuild , therefore it is not a good idea to rely on the rv for insurance purposes . instead you should investigate the actual cost of rebuilding your home to set your sum insured .  there are two methods to help you set the sum insured :  1 . online calculators : some insurance companies provide online calculators to help you work out the likely cost of rebuilding your home . if you choose this option , you may want to ensure you cover any recent house additions or renovations . if you 're contemplating any major renovations within the next 12 months , make sure these are covered as they 're likely to increase the cost to rebuild your home to its current standard .  2 . property valuer : an alternative to using an online calculator , particularly if your home is an older house with period features or perhaps a specialist property valuer . a valuer can provide you with a more accurate valuation of rebuild costs than an online calculator so you can use that information to establish the sum insured .  when renewing your home insurance policy you should also remember that you have a duty to disclose all material facts to the insurer which may affect the risk being insured .  for example if you are planning substantial renovations at your property , or perhaps anticipate leaving the property vacant for a period while you are overseas on holiday , then you should disclose that information to your insurer .  if you forget to provide that information it may mean you could jeopardise your insurance cover if you make a claim on your policy .  the need for you to set a sum insured when you renew your home insurance policy is a good reminder to review all the information you have provided to your insurer about your home , such as your excess , and also a review of your household contents insurance .  it 's important to get your sum goes wrong . using an online calculator or a professional valuer will help you get the most from your policy .  elspeth horner is a partner in wellington law firm , morrison kent . information in this column should not be a substitute for legal advice .