Kiwi conman in Queensland
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/8797630/Kiwi-conman-in-Queensland

kiwi conman in queensland  relevant offers  a recidivist new zealand-born conman is active in queensland , claiming vast wealth in an attempt to buy businesses and real estate .  shaun gregory morgan , deported to new zealand in january after serving a five-year prison term for bank fraud in utah , had previously claimed to the sunday star-times to have turned over a new leaf and to being based in the united kingdom .  morgan was also jailed in switzerland for similar offending .  a concerned queensland businessman said morgan was actually living in palm beach and presenting himself as a wealthy international businessman .  " shaun was telling me he had restaurant chains in the uk . he said he 's got this company , corporate partners , in the uk and holiday homes in the bahamas , " the businessman said of in-person meetings he recently had with morgan .  morgan is said to have boasted of having millions of dollars available for investment , but required potential business partners to agree to complex deals involving vendor financing out of prison 18 month ago , despite his sentence ending only months before he set up shop in queensland .  " he 's lying through his teeth . "  morgan did not respond to businessday emails this past week , and a phone number used to contact him in the past has been disconnected .  morgan 's company , corporate partners , and notorious international conman marc duchesne had attempted to take over a united states-listed penny dreadful .  morgan and duchesne were listed as proposed directors after the takeover of dormant energy company insight management corporation .  duchesne was in a uk jail at the time the offer documents were filed , awaiting competing extradition bids from authorities in washington dc and texas wanting to try him for separate frauds .  in earlier interviews morgan distanced himself from corporate partners and claimed to be only a consultant .  but correspondence from the new zealand-born fraudster shows he is currently presenting himself as the chief executive of corporate partners in business proposals .  following his release from prison , morgan has also earlier offending as legitimate - including greater china acquisition corp and luminary acquisition corporation .