Rachel House, story teller
http://www.stuff.co.nz/entertainment/film/8782075/Rachel-House-story-teller

You ca n't always name the good ones . The ones who toil away in the background , who do it all without you really noticing .  While her name might not be a household standard , scene-stealing roles in Whale Rider and Boy , and a regular seat on Maori Television 's panel show Ask Your Aunties , have certainly made Rachel House memorable . The shouty woman riding the red ride-on mower in that Sky Television ad ? That 's her , too .  On the day we were meant to meet , House needs to be in Australia . A couple of " nice Aussie boys " have invited her over to Sydney to audition for a top-secret television pilot . It turns out those lads are the Bondi Hipsters - the duo behind the Beached Az cartoon that gently mocked us Kiwis in front of an online audience of seven million .  They can name her , and they want her , too . It 's not an invitation she gets every day then ? " No . No , voice . " ' Oh hi , do you want to fly to Sydney in the next 24 hours please and be in our thing ? ' No , definitely not . I get really great jobs , just not involving travel . Shit no . "  After more than 20 years in the industry , House still finds it hard to believe she is wanted in front of the camera . She reckons she is " an unusual-looking woman " , and there 's not a lot of room for those these days .  " It still surprises me when I get cast in something . I 'm not your , you know , I 'm ... I remember thinking really early on that you have to look a particular way and I 'm quite aware of my look , so I always thought I would n't get a lot of screen work .  " But , of course , when I 'm directing I never take those things into consideration . It 's just like , who 's good , who 's going to bring it We are hard on ourselves . "  Like many of the characters she 's played , House is n't the flashy type . A Ponsonby local , she picks a " really quiet , unpretentious " cafe for a coffee and a chat a day earlier than planned . It 's tucked away from the Ladies That Lunch and their miniature dogs who could n't be further from the way she goes about things . In the flesh , the 41-year-old is captivating and instantly familiar . Wrapped up in a black puffer jacket , with her mane of dark curls tucked away , she has a face you recognise quickly , despite the pair of sunglasses hugging it tightly . She also uses the word " totes " a lot ; probably jokingly , possibly not .  In her latest film , set for release on the 27th of this month , House is front and centre - there is no background here . White Lies is a confronting production based on Witi Ihimaera 's novella Medicine Woman , written and directed by Mexican filmmaker Dana Rotberg .  House plays Maraea , the servant of Rebecca ( Antonia Prebble ) , a wealthy woman who needs the help of medicine woman Paraiti ( Whirimako Black ) to hide a secret that will destroy her life in European settler society . Originally , House auditioned for the role of Paraiti , but director Rotberg was adamant that part would be played by a fluent te reo speaker from the Tuhoe tribe . House was neither and she turned down the chance to play Maraea when she was first offered it . Rotberg managed to talk her round .  " It 's not like I read the script and went , ' Who 's the lead ? I want that role . ' I never do that because it 's not the kind of actor I am . And I 'm happy with that , happy with little walk-on roles , staunch aunties with hearts of gold , " she says .  Without spoiling the film 's twist ( in House 's words , " it 's like The Sixth Sense " ) , the role of Maraea can get . This was a step into the unknown .  " Actors wrestle with it all the time ; they want to be liked , " she says . " They do . They want to play something that people are going to like . And again , that 's not something that 's ever made my mind up , but in this case Maraea 's pretty bad . She 's extreme . "  The themes of race and identity in White Lies are not completely foreign to House . Adopted by Scottish parents , John and Sheila , she was raised in Kamo , Whangarei . While she always felt Maori , she says it took her a while to really connect with the culture . " I 've never not felt Maori , ever . And because of the era I grew up in , I was never not seen as that . I would walk down the street with Mum and Dad and people would say , " Look , there 's a little Maori girl . "  My parents were quite keen to Maori at university before she adopted me , and Dad 's just a good old socialist , you know . A leftie .  " I 've been trying to make my way towards the culture since high school , but my perceptions of what being Maori meant were quite different to , I think , what they are . "  It was her parents who steered her towards ballet , piano and speech and drama lessons from the age of five to help her gain confidence . As she says , she did n't catch the acting bug - she was shoved into its path . With other kids there were performances on local verandas in front of proud parents , before House moved on to the Northland Youth Theatre . From there Toi Whakaari New Zealand Drama School seemed like an " obvious route " .  " But I did n't really take the craft of it seriously fora while . It took me a while to really get it , " she says . When she got involved in casting Maori theatre , with its strong was always interested in the stories we were telling , it just needed to be bigger ; it needed to be a bigger concept for me to take it seriously , I think . When the outcome actually meant something and it was n't just ' me-me-me ' . " Then you understand what you are doing - you are a storyteller , you can bring people together and you can educate . It allows us to put ourselves in other people 's shoes and have a different outlook on the world . It 's powerful . "  In her own story , there are only a few things she would change . She wishes she had gone to university as well as drama school . Gone and studied " things that are interesting " - political science , religious studies , maybe women 's studies . Things to broaden her horizons . " I think it 's important ; just studying acting is really stupid . You 've got to get a sense of the world , like anything . Be a better human ; read more . " " , House is more comfortable steering the ship from the director 's chair . In the past year alone , she has worked on Hui , an urban Maori play that premiered at the Auckland Arts Festival , and was artistic director of the te reo Maori version of Shakespeare 's Troilus and Cressida , which appeared at London 's Globe Theatre in 2012 .  Last year was topped off when House received an Arts Foundation Laureate Award , an honour that recognised her whole career - from the groundbreaking directorial work to those roles audiences did n't immediately associate with her .  " I could not believe it . You reach a certain age and everybody wants you to be on a panel , and I thought that 's why they were calling . When they told me I was very accusatory . I told them to shut up , and I swore a lot . And cried a lot , too . I blubbered like a baby . "  After appearing in films like Boy and Eagle Vs Shark , House is used to laughing a laugh ) , but this year is set to be a bit different - along with White Lies , House will also appear in Hope and Wire , the mini-series based around the Christchurch earthquakes .  These days she lives and breathes her work a lot more than she used to . " I do n't want to do things by halves . I really love the work that I do , and I feel like you have to go that extra mile to do it because it is a responsibility . Telling stories is a responsibility . There are certainly times I have had to do things half-assed , but in the past few years it has n't been an option . If you are going to do it , do it well . "  The ultimate aim is directing a feature-length film . In 2008 she attended the Prague Film School , where the constant need to churn out stories and scripts meant she could work without second-guessing herself . Back home , those doubting thoughts are harder to ignore .  " When I was work , so there was no room for voices of doubt . Just do it by the end of the week , and you do . That was really liberating , having that pressure . Maybe it was shit , but you just did the best you could with it . Now , when there is n't that pressure , I 'll just sit . Writing I find hard , because it 's so personal and there are so many voices of doubt .  " It 's probably because I 've read so many scripts over the years and now I 'm in a position where I 'm asked to critique , so you 're already critiquing your work before you 've even started . The number of times I 've thought . ' Oh , I 'm going to write this story ... ' ' Why ? No one 's going to want to hear that ; it 's dumb . What a silly story . ' So I just have to harden up . "  She 's equally as self-deprecating when it comes to her chances at the strong sense that , for House , flash and cash will always come second to a good yarn .  " I just do n't think I 'd be very good at it . You have to be very technically brainy , and I 'm not technically brainy , unfortunately . Wow , would n't it be amazing to play with all that money , but I 'd be wasting a lot of people 's time . If it was a Hollywood blockbuster with a really good story , sure . But it has to have a good story . "