No mayoral posts for Didiza, Jordaan, says EFF
http://www.iol.co.za/news/politics/no-mayoral-posts-for-didiza-jordaan-says-eff-2058238

no mayoral posts for didiza , jordaan , says eff  politics / 17 august 2016 , 7:24pm  gertrude makhafola  johannesburg -- in a stern warning to the governing african national congress ( anc ) on wednesday , the economic freedom fighters ( eff ) said there would be no anc mayor in tshwane , ekurhuleni and eastern cape 's nelson mandela bay as municipalities get ready to form councils by saturday .  eff leader julius malema said ' the arrogance ' of the anc showed it was a party in denial .  " imagine voting to give johannesburg to the anc , and then they celebrate and say ' anc leads anc lives ... ' how so when you have lost support and got less than 50 percent ? " malema asked .  there was no mayoral position for mp thoko didiza , the anc 's tshwane mayoral candidate , said malema .  " thoko didiza , we shall meet in parliament . there is no mayoral position for you , no matter what happens , or else be prepared mzwandile masina , we 're working very hard to make sure you do not become a mayor in ekurhuleni because that municipality deserves a better person , and you are not that person . nelson mandela bay is a sad one ... no mayor in danny jordaan , he must face the charges at fifa , " malema said .  regarding anc 's johannesburg mayoral candidate parks tau , malema said he must be prepared to let go of blue light vehicles and walk ' the streets like all of us ' .  the eff would not form part of any coalition at councils . the party said it would support the inkatha freedom party ( ifp ) in kwazulu-natal , the da in gauteng 's hung municipalities and in eastern cape 's nelson mandela bay . in rustenburg , at which the anc needed just two seats to govern , malema said his party would support the forum 4 service delivery ( f4sd ) an umbrella for independents councillors .  malema said talks were underway with the da in johannesburg over ' a small matter ' . until they reached an agreement . he vowed that the governing party would never get ' a single eff vote ' at councils .