Go Find That Star!
http://www.sportingpost.co.za/2016/08/bsa-national-2yo-sale-go-find-that-star/

go find that star !  looking for the next generation bela-bela ?  owners and trainers will be searching for a star performer like bela-bela at the bsa national two-year-old sale to be held at the tba complex in germiston .  the sale takes place from 6pm on thursday with an 11am start on friday .  new zealander steve davis , along with andrew miller and graeme hawkins , will be on the rostrum .  star bela-bela is a graduate of the 2014 national 2yo sale  justin snaith 's gr1 winner bela-bela is a graduate of the 2014 sale and other big names bought at a sale regarded by many as " the best for bargains " include j j the jet plane , river jetez , the apache and new sire jackson .  all of the top stallions are represented with progeny by new champion sire trippi , dynasty , captain al , silvano and var , as well as up-and-coming new name in the ranks , gimmethegreenlight .  one of the big incentives for buyers is the prospect scheduled for august next year . the winner 's purse in each race is r625,000 .  there 's a total of 269 lots due to be offered over the two days and maine chance farms -- third behind summerhill and klawervlei in last season 's breeders championship -- will send six two- year-olds through the ring in the opening session .  hot ticket -- maine chance have a full brother to this good stayer  the sextet includes a silvano colt who is a full-brother to hot ticket , who captured the equus champion stayer award in 2014 .  querari falcon won the gr1 thekwini stakes on the final day of the 2015/16 season and there are four offspring by her sire , querari , in the maine chance draft .  the colt likely to get the catalogues waving on friday is a three-part brother to triple crown winner abashiri .  the youngster 's dam , bavaria , is a full-sister to dubai victor drift ice .  moutonshoek is another stud with the progeny of top stallions on offer and they include two-year-olds by dynasty they have the sole dynasty colt on the sale , named ransom my heart , who is the third produce of the british mare cinna 's ransom .  worldbeater the apache -- bargain buy !  over the years , many scott bros horses bought at this sale have proved bargain buys ( the apache , bought for r80,000 , is the most famous ) and it will be no surprise if the 12 progeny of mogok prove popular .  on the friday , two of mogok 's progeny who are well related include city of stars , a filly out of the five-time winner star watch , and another filly , ascot fever , who is a half- sister to winter fever and jet fever .  the latter ran third behind royal honour at turffontein last saturday .  bringing home gold is a topical name during the rio olympics and a filly called that from highlands should sell well on the first day . the filly is by dynasty and is a half-sister to olympic owen , fly philippa and recent winner speedy suzy .  wood and the first-named has a filly towards the end of the sale who is a full-sister to the four-time winner fah fee .  among the klipdrif stud draft is a well-related dynasty filly and a daughter of captain al who is a full-sister to the java handicap winner fulcrum.