#IOLYMPICS - Murray targets triathlon medal
http://www.iol.co.za/olympics-rio-2016/iolympics---murray-targets-triathlon-medal-2058237

#iolympics - murray targets triathlon medal  olympics / 17 august 2016 , 7:22pm  ockert de villiers  rio de janeiro - with the memories of his horror crash from four months ago now a distant memory south africa 's leading triathlete richard murray was looking for a podium place at his second olympic games in rio de janeiro .  murray broke his collarbone in australia in april which sparked a desperate race against time to get back into contention for a medal .  south africa 's leading triathlete richard murray is looking for a podium place at his second olympic games in rio de janeiro . photo : nic bothma . credit : epa  making his debut in london 2102 , murray finished in a creditable 17th place but has since established himself as one of the world 's best athletes in the swim , bike , run event .  " i 'm in a positive mind-set , i have left no stones unturned , " murray said .  " i believe that my first olympic games was more an both the games in london and the commonwealth games in glasgow .  " my form has come back quickly and i believe i 'm in the best shape of my life . "  murray 's comeback has been nothing short of miraculous after he had to wait months before doing any proper overhead work in the swimming pool .  he made his return to competition winning his maiden itu world duathlon title in june before signalling his return at the world triathlon event in hamburg .  the men 's triathlon raced over the 1.5km swim , a 40km bike ride and a 10km run will be a close affair between some of the world 's racers .  london 2012 silver medalist spain 's javier gomez considered one of the contender was ruled out of the games after a minor bike crash in training .  his injury has narrowed the field slightly with the briton alistair brownlee aiming to become the first triathlete to retain his title while his brother jonny , who won the bronze in london would also be in the mix .  the top triathletes in the world since he finished 19th at the london olympic games .  " the likes of the brownlees ( british brothers alistair and jonny ) , and the french athletes would be to try and get away with the swim , " murray said .  " i think it is going to be one of those cat-and-mouse type of games again at the olympics , i think i 'd be able to pull back on the bike and be in contention for a medal . "  joining murray in the men 's race in rio , schoeman has also made serious advances in world triathlon ranked top-10 in the world .  the country 's two female triathletes mari rabie and gillian sanders will be competing at their second olympics respectively on saturday .  sanders finished 19th place in london 2012 while rabie will turn out at her second games , eight years after her debut in beijing 2008. - independent media