Four Ex-PSL Sides Win As Mthatha Go Top
http://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/categories/south-africa/national-first-division-wrap-52/235973

four ex-psl sides win as mthatha go top  national first division wrap  former psl giants , university of pretoria , santos , thanda royal zulu and amazulu were first off the blocks with victories on the opening weekend of the 2016/17 season however , mthatha bucks lead the standings on goal difference following their 3-1 win over stellenbosch fc .  in addition , witbank spurs overpowered milano united 2-1 in wellington , thanks to patrick mubayiwa and joshua sauls , while fc cape town managed to hold jomo cosmos to a 1-1 drew .  amatuks and the people 's team both recorded 2-1 home successes over cape town all stars and mbombela united respectively , while amabhubhesi did well to produce the same score line on the road against newcomers , magesi fc as mhlengi cele and innocent maela hit the back of the net .  shaun bartlett 's side with strikes from thabo moseki and chemon petersen illustrated who was best on the day at tuks stadium , where bongani fakude netted a consolation goals for igugu lekapa .  the through an early own goal before ex-ajax cape town playmaker , quien paulse , grabbed a late winner on debut .  the match was characterised by some excellent work from santos ' dedicated veteran captain , tyren arendse . he had a hand in both goals and generally showed his natural ability to outplay and outthink the opposition , for whom siyabonga madikane scored .  in the battle of the two zimbabwean coaches , amazulu 's joey antipas got the better of his compatriot , jairos tapera , after a narrow 2-1 win over black leopards in durban .  siyabonga nomvethe and lungelo dlamini were on target for usuthu , while lidoda duvha 's goal came from roggert nyunda .  a brace from andile njokweni coupled with lwazi mncube 's early penalty gave mthatha a good start but sent sammy troughton 's team to the bottom of the log .  rookies , real kings managed to hold big-spending royal eagles to a 1-1 draw during a fiery kzn derby . siphamandla gumede ( kings ) and raymond monama were the scorers .