America's shameful attitude towards Paralympic Games
http://www.iol.co.za/olympics-rio-2016/americas-shameful-attitude-towards-paralympic-games-2065904

america 's shameful attitude towards paralympic games  olympics / 8 september 2016 , 4:30pm  ian herbert  at a press conference in rio de janeiro three weeks ago , the leaders of the united states delegation did n't even seem to have worked out how to mark the winning of their 1,000th olympic gold medal of all time . collecting them was such a breeze that they muttered something about " special plans " being in store and , you imagined , wandered off to make them . the women 's 4x100m medley swimmers did the honours , collecting one of 46 golds secured by a peerless olympian team which captivated the american nation .  it says everything for the different country that the us paralympians occupy that at the games which start on thursday they may have their work cut out simply beating ukraine , a nation still in the throes of bitter military conflict . ukraine finished 30 places behind the us in the rio olympics medal table but one place ahead of them at london 's 2012 paralympics .  the have often gone for a nation which has only once made it beyond fourth place in the medals table on foreign soil . epa/jens buttner . credit : epa  the us 's sixth place in london reflected the way paralympics have often gone for a nation which has only once made it beyond fourth place in the medals table on foreign soil . the poor return is not a coincidence . the fervour felt here in the uk for paralympic athletes is simply not matched on the other side of the atlantic .  the flavour of the us media on wednesday certainly suggested that the paralympians are not of great interest , despite th supreme quality of their sport . it 's a busy time , coast to coast , with the us open at flushing meadows and the nfl season about to unfold . but the paralympics did not feature anywhere in the mix of the new york times , washington post , or usa today digital stories on wednesday . even nbc , which has the tv rights , has published minimal preview material this week on pita taufatofua remained nbc 's main olympic stories on tuesday , though tatyana mcfadden finally made it on the ' olympic ' page on wednesday .  nbc was criticised for its paralympic programming at london 2012 , principally for not screening live sport and putting the output on its cable sports channel nbcsn . it says it is increasing its output this time , though most of the coverage will be relegated to cable channel again .  one thing that us paralympian sport seems to lack is a talisman . the story of extraordinary ukrainian success stems from valeriy sushkevych - the founder and president of the paralympic committee of ukraine and two-time disabled swimming champion in the soviet union . under his passionate leadership , as a member of the ukrainian parliament , ukraine developed a ground-breaking system of physical education and sport for young people with disabilities .  the us team struggle for funding , too . in part , that is because there is no central government funding , but disability rights advocates also say it reflects the lack of support in the us for paralympic medal winner , said this week that the poor us performance " is reflective of the lack of support that disabled people get more generally . it 's always a day too late and dollar too short . " disabled people tend to be largely absent from tv and cinema screens , not to mention the tv sports channels .  the impact of a well televised paralympics can be extraordinary , shattering so many preconceptions . anne wafula-strike , who represented kenya at the 2000 athens games , provided a vivid sense of that when we spoke this week . kenya at the turn of the century was beset by some of the desperate prejudice that the disabled in parts of western africa still encounter . but when she returned to kenya after becoming the first wheelchair racer to represent the country , she was mobbed .  " people walked up and touched me , especially the women , because to them it was n't real . i had gone and done the thing that ' only the white person can do ' , " said wafula-strike , and has regularly visited the organisation 's vital school projects in kenya .  though the liberation many working class kenyans felt seeing wafula-strike compete was on racial lines , it opened minds to what those with disability can do . " the paralympics work like that , " she said . " it creates a international platform . when people get to see the games on tv or listening to the bbc world service maybe in a village in africa , they feel alive to us and the barriers drop . the whole world is watching and listening . "  wafula-strike tells of the disabled child she found living with animals during her efforts to elevate the importance of disability rights in kenya . light years away from the west and the united states , of course , but the way moving images of the paralympics can transform perceptions is relevant to all nations .  some extremely significant countries at the games will have no paralympics broadcast at all . there will be no tv coverage in india , as the paralympics failed to attract any broadcasters there than ever before . pakistan - another country in which attitudes are primitive - has no broadcast either . it is no surprise that the same applies to ghana , where some of the world 's worst disability discrimination has been witnessed .  in the united states , it is thought that a los angeles bid for the 2024 olympics -- in which paralympics would have parity with olympics -- could bring the step-change in outlook . in the meantime , american paralympic athletes hear of london 's plans to stage next summer 's paralympics world championships before the event for the able-bodied and think that ours is a different world .