Boko Haram violence leaves families 'teetering on edge of famine ...
http://ewn.co.za/2016/09/24/Boko-Haram-violence-leaves-families-teetering-on-edge-of-famine-aid-groups

the group 's 7-year insurgency to create an islamic state in northeast nigeria has killed 15,000 people .  nigerian president mohammadu buhari holds the daughter of the kidnapped chibok schoolgirl amina ali as borno state governor kashim shettima ( c ) looks on at her arrival at the presidency in abuja , on 19 may , 2016 . picture : afp .  new york -- more than 6 million people in nigeria , niger , chad and cameroon face severe hunger , including 1 million on the edge of famine , as a result of boko haram violence , aid agencies said on friday as they appealed for more money to tackle the regional crisis .  the islamist group 's seven year insurgency to create an islamic state in northeast nigeria has killed 15,000 people and forced 2.4 million to flee their homes .  more than 65,000 people are living in famine in pockets of northeast nigeria , and over one million others are " one step away " from famine , a coalition of 15 aid groups including oxfam , the international what we are seeing is families teetering on the edge of famine , " yannick pouchalan , country director for nigeria for action against hunger , said in a statement .  " we see families who have not eaten for days , many are begging for food . "  in some areas of nigeria 's borno state , more than half of children under five suffer acute malnutrition , similar to the rates seen in somalia in 2011 , when the scale and severity of hunger led to a declaration of famine , the aid groups said .  they said the conflict and counter-insurgency operations had led to farmlands , rivers and lakes being cut off from communities in and around the lake chad area that rely on agriculture and fishing to feed themselves .  " civilians have paid a high price for policies of cutting off boko haram 's food and supplies , " said oxfam 's lisa bay in a statement .  " we have seen hugely generous communities welcome people who have fled their homes , but now they have nothing to give . "  the coalition appealed for money to respond to the emergency , noting that a un appeal for $740 million to help those displaced by boko haram violence was less than a quarter funded .  it called for $90 million by the end of the year on top of $53 million received this year .  on tuesday , us president barack obama said he and nigerian president mohammadu buhari had discussed ways of countering the militant group .  nigeria is battling boko haram on the ground and with air strikes . a multi-national joint task force - comprising troops from nigeria and neighbouring niger , cameroon , chad and benin - is also fighting the militants .  last weekend , soldiers killed 38 boko haram fighters during operations that followed earlier attacks by the islamist group on two border towns in southeastern niger .  in new york , representatives of the countries affected by boko haram violence said humanitarian priorities included healthcare , food , drinking water and shelter .