How long has your doctor been on duty?
http://www.health24.com/Lifestyle/Healthy-workplace/how-long-has-your-doctor-been-on-duty-20160926

South African doctors are under increasing pressure to work shifts of more than 30 hours -- and it 's a ticking time bomb .  This is the opinion of the South African Medical Association ( SAMA ) , a non-profit company , aiming to create public awareness of the problem . While the industry norm in the USA and in many European countries is 16 hours per shift , our doctors after often pushed to work more than 30 hours .  " Enough is enough . This is a problem that has been going on for decades , " SAMA vice-chairperson Prof Mark Sonderup told Health24 .  " We have done nothing to address the issue . Doctors are making more mistakes than ever and people are dying as a result of it .  I have colleagues who have caused accidents after working long shifts . "  Three months agoIlne Markwat , a Cape Town resident died because of allegedly falling asleep behind the wheel . According to reports she was very tired after a long shift .  Coloured armbands  a particular colour armband indicating to the number of hours they have worked . Thousands of doctors are currently taking part in this initiative . The different colours are :  Green : This bracelet indicates the doctor has worked fewer than 24 consecutive hours .  Orange : The doctor has worked more than 24 hours , but fewer than 30 hours .  Red : This is a potential risk , and indicates that the doctor has been working for more than 30 hours .  " People have a right to know how many hours their doctors have been working , " says Sonderup . " We can not continue with a situation where doctors are required to work such long hours . "  According to him , staff shortages , the high doctor-to-patient ratio , and the number of vacant posts are some of the reasons doctors are being pushed to put in these long hours .  " They are people too and make mistakes . We need a complete overhaul of the system . We know it wo n't happen overnight , but we  Health24 is South Africa 's premier health information website  Get a daily health tip  Stay in touch  The information on Health24 is for educational purposes only , and is not intended as medical advice , diagnosis or treatment . If you are experiencing symptoms or need health advice , please consult a healthcare professional . See additional information .