Dear Hlaudi...
http://www.news24.com/MyNews24/dear-hlaudi-20161006

dear hlaudi ...  06 october 2016 , 09:31  dear hlaudi ,  i write you this open letter , in response to the open letter you wrote over the weekend , addressing all your " detractors " .  much to my bemusement , instead of addressing the fact that the supreme court of appeals ruled that your position as coo of the sabc was to be set aside , you gave a flawless account of your qualifications and *your* rights , both civil and human .  what you clearly fail to understand mr motsoeneng , is that you benefitted illegally from the position of coo at our state run broadcaster . it seems to have escaped your attention , that during your tenure as coo , the sabc has posted annual losses totalling over r1 billion .  however , as we have come to expect from highly connected cadres inserted into positions of power , you have washed your hands of all blame for the dismal state of the sabc .  i 'd like to point out a couple of facts  1 . qualified for the position or not , the sabc has become a burden on the tax paying citizens of south africa . in any other company , you would have been given the boot a long time ago .  2 . your accomplishments do n't amount to much when the quality and content of sabc owned stations are antiquated ( at best ) and censored in the name of " good news " .  3 . you awarded yourself ridiculous pay increases on numerous occasions , despite failing your duties at every level . let 's not even mention the bonuses you received for running the sabc into the ground .  4 . you flouted countless constitutional laws on so many levels , when deciding to censor the violent protests happening around the country .  5 . aside from your brash , patronizing attitude at the sabc , you used mandoza 's funeral as a platform to voice your agenda regarding the sabc and your detractors . this act was vile , not only from a professional but a personal level .  6 the sabc journalists who showed true integrity when protesting against the draconian censorship you put in place .  you mentioned last week that you are a miracle worker . the only miracle you can take credit for , is the fact that you have not been brought up on charges of corruption , negligent spending of state funds and benefitting from a position that you obtained with false qualifications .  despite the many rights of journalists you trampled on during your censorship blitzkrieg , you have the audacity to complain about your rights ! ? !  in light of all of the above , i will no longer be complicate in funding a corrupt , morally bankrupt company . i hereby declare that i will not be paying my tv license anymore . i would also encourage all those reading this letter to do the same . trust me - it 's the right thing to do .  i hope that you , or someone at the top of the food chain comes to their senses and fires you with the almighty disdain you so rightly deserve though , i would n't hold my breath .  disclaimer : all articles and letters published on mynews24 have been independently written by members of news24 's community . the views of users published on news24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of news24 . news24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received .  being a concerned citizen about all aspects with regards to south africa , i have come to realise , government as an organisation strives entirely to seem as if the most amount of work has been done with the least effort possible . read more ...  is it her resilience ? she has bounced back from a devastating loss to a little-known african-american senator in the democratic nomination race in 2008 with a southern texas-like swagger to lift herself close to breaking the proverbial glass ceiling . read more ...  the resounding call for free tertiary education in south africa under the hashtag #feesmustfall , has been a growing movement well supported and motivated by many figures in particular varsity students ...  what i have observed this time is that the current crop of #feesmustfall protesters are not dedicated students . instead , they were disgruntled , lazy students who most probably spent more time trying to be popular and activist wannabes instead of studying . read more ...  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  news24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi news addict ,  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .