Why did Julius Malema just sell the EFF to the ANC?
http://www.news24.com/MyNews24/why-did-julius-malema-just-sell-the-eff-to-the-anc-20161006

why did julius malema just sell the eff to the anc ?  06 october 2016 , 09:31  malema calls for " merger ' between eff and anc  i called this . i was ridiculed about this . yet it was clear after the recent elections .  malema is not stupid . despite what the media had said about the eff 's local government election performance , it was a wake-up call to any serious observer , and most definitely to the little megalomaniac .  the media heaped lavish praise on him for his political brilliance after the elections , when in fact his back was against the wall . he had negotiated with the da for power sharing and lost . the way the eff voted in the mayoral elections was the only option they realistically had left . they had after all campaigned on an anti-anc platform . if he had voted with the anc , his supporters would not have accepted that .  somehow , according to the press , that made him a genius .  he will the eff , and he knows it . the recent election and subsequent horsetrading confirmed it . being the darling of the media , and wielding actual power are two separate matters entirely .  however , with zuma gone , malema would have a clear path to the union buildings , provided he promises the anc the return of his youthful supporters . we all know zuma will not survive 2019 politically , if indeed he lasts that long . that is a big stumbling block gone for juju .  the thinking is probably along the lines of malema returns his supporters , provides a majority in the 2019 general election , becomes secretary general , and then contests the presidency at the next election .  some red berets will go along with him , sure , they would never even consider questioning their cic .  but i think he has miscalculated here . i think malema has made his first big political mistake .  there are enough eff members who despise what the anc has done , who were told to hate ramaphosa by their the mineworkers at marikana . malema 's eff is fermenting the student violence .  yet malema is proposing love to the same anc that has failed our education system so badly .  now malema wants to work with the party of ramaphosa . surely malema , the revolutionary , is not getting into bed with the " capitalist killer of innocent mineworkers " ? ( the fact that there is little or no truth to that statement is of little or no consequence to your average red beret )  the eff 's honeymoon is over . malema is already facing a revolt in kzn . malema has disbanded all eff structures in kzn and the eastern cape . they have faced problems in gauteng due to alleged fraud , which caused another mini revolt .  when you plant your seeds in anarchy , be prepared to have an interesting harvest .  the problem juju faces is that for the first time in recent memory , he blinked .  and with this one blink , his reputation has been diminished . his supporters will rightly feel is in the water , and the sharks will start circling .  his aura of fearlessness , and the carefully curated selfless image might dissolve when people realise how he has been playing everybody . it is this aura that drew crowds of 50 000 to hear him speak . its this aura that make ancyl members secretly admire him .  now that is gone .  there will be no " merger " malema will slink back to the anc and the eff will be absorbed . back to business as usual .  but why now ?  there are few factors at play here .  firstly , i think malema was caught off guard by how little the massive crowds that he pulled pre-election , translated into actual votes cast . if that trend continues , the eff will be in serious trouble of " cope'ing " or going the way of the udm . juju has bigger ambitions than that . ambitions that the eff vehicle may not be able to deliver . malema wants to be president , not a holomisa-like figure .  secondly , i think malema underestimated how fast there would be real change in municipalities under da leadership , and how positively it will be received by the people .  rural areas will see change faster because its easier to solve those problems . in modimolle the da has provided water and boreholes in a few weeks , when communities have been waiting for years for the anc to do nothing.the anc 's last stronghold is the rural poor .  " the people " were told the da is bringing back apartheid , but it turns out all they are bringing is services , water , deeds to homes .  this will not have gone unnoticed by malema .  should this trend continue , the anc and eff will both face a da that has made good on its promises of removing corruption and a solid track record of delivering services to the poor . that is not a challenge that either of those two parties can afford .  especially not if they are engaged in a fight against each other . lets not forget the ordinary voter by the eff voting with them in the various mayoral elections . ( brilliant political move indeed )  lastly , we need to keep in mind that malema has never answered the fraud charges brought against him and his accomplices in limpopo . the case was withdrawn , not dismissed . the charges relating to the r52 million on point engineering case can be brought before a court at any time .  we have seen what a determined person , with little or no scruples , can do to avoid facing such charges . it has been the backbone of zuma 's rise to power .  malema has seen it too .  witnessing this unfolding saga is like watching the preview of a remake of a movie we never wanted to see in the first place .  disclaimer : all articles and letters published on mynews24 have been independently written by members of news24 's community . the views of users published on news24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of news24 . news24 editors also reserve the .  being a concerned citizen about all aspects with regards to south africa , i have come to realise , government as an organisation strives entirely to seem as if the most amount of work has been done with the least effort possible . read more ...  is it her resilience ? she has bounced back from a devastating loss to a little-known african-american senator in the democratic nomination race in 2008 with a southern texas-like swagger to lift herself close to breaking the proverbial glass ceiling . read more ...  the resounding call for free tertiary education in south africa under the hashtag #feesmustfall , has been a growing movement well supported and motivated by many figures in particular varsity students , some celebrities and some major organisations . read more ...  what i have observed this time is that the current crop of #feesmustfall protesters are not dedicated students . instead , they were disgruntled , lazy students who most probably spent more time trying to be popular and activist wannabes instead of studying . read more ...  tell us a bit about yourself you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi news addict ,  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .