Education: Just because it's a right doesn't mean it has to be free
http://www.news24.com/MyNews24/education-just-because-its-a-right-doesnt-mean-it-has-to-be-free-20161006

education : just because it 's a right does n't mean it has to be free  06 october 2016 , 09:31 - news24 user  i feel for the students that do n't have the financial means to pay for their education . i am lily white and when i wanted to study , my parents did not have the money . so i had to find a job to make ends meet . i worked to study and eventually completed an mba . so it can be done .  regarding ? the stories that education is a right , people are correct , it is a basic human right and it is also ensrined as such in the constitution . however , something being a right , does not mean it has to be free . it just means that you have the right to have access to it . one needs to draw a clear distinction . i am not sure how these striking students will be able to explain why they are denying the 77 percent of pro-study , this basic right .  another question that news24 could look into , are the legal implications of pro-study people not getting what they paid for . this right is enshrined in the consumer act , and various other acts that address freedom of association , and so forth .  someone out there will most definitely nail the university for not providing the service that they have been paid for .  disclaimer : all articles and letters published on mynews24 have been independently written by members of news24 's community . the views of users published on news24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of news24 . news24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received .  being a concerned citizen about all aspects with regards to south africa , i have come to realise , government as an organisation strives entirely to seem as if the most amount of work has been done with the least effort possible . read more ...  is it her resilience ? she has bounced back from a devastating loss to a little-known a southern texas-like swagger to lift herself close to breaking the proverbial glass ceiling . read more ...  the resounding call for free tertiary education in south africa under the hashtag #feesmustfall , has been a growing movement well supported and motivated by many figures in particular varsity students , some celebrities and some major organisations . read more ...  what i have observed this time is that the current crop of #feesmustfall protesters are not dedicated students . instead , they were disgruntled , lazy students who most probably spent more time trying to be popular and activist wannabes instead of studying . read more ...  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  news24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .