Local artist honours Kuzwayo with #SongsforKhwezi
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/news/local-artist-honours-kuzwayo-with-songsforkhwezi-2078387

Local artist honours Kuzwayo with #SongsforKhwezi  News / 11 October 2016 , 08:06am  Zodidi Dano  The legacy of Aids and anti-rape activist Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo , commonly known as Khwezi will live on after a choreopoem was created in her honour .  Songs for Khwezi , a dance performance infused with poetry , was created by Refilwe Nkomo and interrogates power and the state as it relates to violence against women and sexual violence perpetrated against women .  Songs for **25;31;TOOLONG . Credit : Scott Eric Williams  The play was performed at the Cape Town Fringe last week . Ironically , the day of Kuzwayo 's death - on Saturday - coincided with the show 's finale .  Nkomo said when she wrote it she had the idea of wanting to tell the Khwezi story .  Khwezi was a pseudonym given to Kuzwayo , to protect her from the public , after she claimed in 2005 she had been raped by Jacob Zuma . Zuma , who was elected president in 2009 , was acquitted by the Joburg High death broke . The cause of death was not disclosed by her family , but she had been living with HIV for 26 years .  Nkomo said she became interested in Khwezi 's life story when she studied abroad , four years ago , at the New York University .  " I did not know Ntsukela personally , but I knew people close to her . I was feeling distressed about being away from home . Thinking about what it means to be in exile , to be pushed out of your country , like she was moving to the Netherlands right after the trial due to harassment , insults and threats she was receiving .  " She could not walk freely , wear the clothes that she wanted . I questioned what democracy and freedoms mean , was it just for a few ? asked Nkomo .  She said prior to writing the choreopoem , she carried out research on the court case , read transcripts and was shocked to read some of the things written about Khwezi .  " My piece is for Khwezi is important not to be silenced around the scourge of violence ; there is a war against women and their bodies . We need to start saying Ntsukela 's name , let her live in our tongues , hearts and souls . "  Nkomo said she hoped to take the play across the country to raise awareness about violence against women .  Meanwhile , tributes poured in for Khwezi . One in Nine Campaign said it was " devastated " by Khwezi ' ' s death .  " Despite the characterisation in the mainstream corporate media and in court , Fezekile to us was a feminist , an activist , a teacher , a sister , a friend , a colleague who inspired people close to her and women who only knew her as Khwezi . She reminded us and will continue to remind us to always speak truth to power , " said the One in Nine .