Canon unleashes outstanding quality document production for the ...
http://canon.it-online.co.za/?p=298

Canon unleashes outstanding quality document production for the office  Canon , a world leader in imaging solutions , has today announced the imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7500 Series , the latest devices in its award-winning imageRUNNER ADVANCE range . The new colour A3 multifunctional printers ( MFPs ) are designed to meet the volume and quality needs of high-end office environments , while also addressing the total cost of print to businesses . Building on the success of the imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7200 series , the imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7580i , imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7570i and imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7565i feature the latest generation imageRUNNER ADVANCE platform for next level print management and usability . Striking quality , again and again For multi-user departments within large organisations , the C7500 Series offers a professional quality print solution with full enterprise functionality . For businesses looking to stand out through the excellence of their printed documents , the C7500 Series employs technology from the industry-leading imagePRESS range , delivering crisp and vibrant print quality to help build brand value . Maximise a return on investment As the value of high quality printed documents in-house thanks to diverse finishing options on a wide variety of media . The C7500 Series also represents incredible value to businesses courtesy of its reliability , producing stunning results every time , even in print-intensive environments . Equipped with the latest generation imageRUNNER ADVANCE platform , which is consistent across all future devices , the C7500 Series further enhances productivity thanks to intelligent document workflows and an intuitive user experience . Universal Login Manager software ( as standard ) provides a unique combination of user-based authentication , personalisation function control and reporting . The devices can also be integrated with optional uniFLOW software providing a single , centralised solution to control user access and all printing and scanning elements across an entire fleet . Streamlined , modern workflows The C7500 Series is designed based on customer feedback to increase efficiency and drive improvements on an organisation-wide scale . Running the latest generation imageRUNNER ADVANCE platform , the devices are easily customisable to meet the needs of unique environments , or individual workflows , and provide users with all the document processing and management functions they need to improve efficiency , maximise the productivity of their workforce by increasing their ability to work from anywhere at any time , seamless integration with business applications and cloud ecosystems ensure that the C7500 Series is instantly interoperable with existing processes and mobile working environments . Building on Canon 's impressive range of security features , the imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7500 Series simplifies the management of security settings and expands the support available to users . By consolidating and centralising the control of device settings , IT managers and administrators can enjoy a reduced workload as well as a system that can be supported by existing in-house security policies . Additionally , the HDD Encryption function automatically encrypts information stored on the device in order to protect businesses against any data leaks . Rayner Botha , Product Manager at Canon SA commented : " The imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7500 Series is a unique offering that delivers the highest quality combined with unrivalled process and cost efficiencies . As the value of printed documents increases for businesses , there is a growing need for superior quality together with day-to-day functionality , which is what sets the C7500 Series devices offer the best of print and digital workflows while proactively managing the cost to an organisation . " Key Features imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7565i 60/65ppm ( CL/B&amp;W ) Single Pass Duplex Auto Document Feeder UFRII , PCL and PS page description languages Optional EFI fiery based controllers imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7570i 65/70ppm ( CL/B&amp;W ) Single Pass Duplex Auto Document Feeder UFRII , PCL and PS page description languages Optional EFI fiery based controllers imageRUNNER ADVANCE C7580i 70/80ppm ( CL/B&amp;W ) Single Pass Duplex Auto Document Feeder UFRII , PCL and PS page description languages Optional EFI fiery based controllers  Contact Us  About Us  Canon South Africa ( Pty ) Ltd , a wholly owned subsidiary of Canon Europe , came into being on January 4 , 2000 . Canon Europe is the regional sales and marketing operation for Canon Inc. , represented in 120 countries and employing over 11,000 people across Europe , the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) . Canon Europe invested in South Africa with a view to growing and expanding its market share in the country .  In South Africa , the the company 's passion , imagination , knowledge and importantly , loyalty to its customers . Canon SA offers a wide range of consumer imaging products and business solutions as well as a variety of large format printers .  Canon technologies are durable , innovative , intuitive , and feature smart and environmentally sustainable designs . Canon invests heavily in R &amp; D and will continue to deliver new and technologically advanced products that cater for a variety of requirements .  In South Africa Canon will continue to support environmental sustainability by operating responsibly , minimizing the impact of its business on the environment and also encouraging a culture of environmental awareness and accountability amongst their staff , business associates and partners . Canon has also maintained its ISO 14001 environmental accreditation since 2007.