100 000 smiles for Christmas
http://northcliffmelvilletimes.co.za/240471/100-000-smiles-for-christmas/

news feed  100 000 smiles for christmas  joburg -- put a smile on a child 's face this christmas by making a small donation that could change a life .  22 hours ago  the santa shoebox project has kicked off and the goal this year is to donate 100 000 shoeboxes to underprivileged children across south africa and namibia .  with this year 's theme being , more than just a shoebox , iren ? pieters , national coordinator of the santa shoebox project said while for many donors the gifts or contents of the shoeboxes might seem like everyday items that would not bring any excitement to children , on the contrary , the recipients of these gifts often find these items exciting and inspiring .  " when funds are limited , even items like soap , a washcloth , toothpaste and a toothbrush are considered luxuries , and thus are often shared between the members of a household , " explained pieters . " for a young lady to receive her very own bar of soap or shower gel , equivalent to receiving a gift of dignity . "  in 2006 , the project distributed only 180 personalised shoeboxes and has managed to grow that number to 551 979 . pieters said over the years there have been many lessons but the main one was that children were all the same irrespective of culture or financial circumstance . she added that boys love cars , girls love dolls , and little ones love something to cuddle .  " we have also learned that without all our stakeholders the project can not exist . these include the caregivers , the donors , our loyal and generous sponsors and our incredible volunteers . "  to achieve the goal of 100 000 shoeboxes , pieters said they have a plan and systems in place .  " applications and name lists are uploaded online , pledging is done seamlessly also from a mobile device , and drop-offs can be run from a smartphone scanning qr codes , which ensure that every box reaches its intended child . "  for those wanting to contribute to the project , drop-offs can the st columba 's presbyterian church in parkview , on 4 and 5 of november between 10am and 4pm . on 6 november drop-off times are between 10am until 2pm .  " it is important that all pledges are fulfilled , there 's always a child in anticipation of what christmas might bring , and an unfulfilled pledge is just like santa failing to make good on the promise of the festive season . "