Zuma sends condolences to TUT student leader's family
http://ewn.co.za/2016/10/21/Zuma-sends-condolences-to-TUT-student-leaders-family

in statement , the president says he 's saddened to learn of phehla 's death and has reiterated his support for access to education .  the presidency 's bongani ngqulunga says , " the president is deeply saddened by the death of the student leader ( mr lesego phehla ) , who lost his life after reportedly being hit by a car yesterday . "  in the wake of the death of the student leader , zuma has appealed to students to return to class and resume the 2016 academic year .  zuma also emphasised government 's support for free higher education for the poor , adding that a ministerial task team is currently finding ways to address the crisis .  ngqulunga says , " the president has said government agrees that university education is very expensive for the poor and some of the students can not afford to pay . "  meanwhile , students at tut are in mourning this afternoon .  protesting tut student march from the soshanguve north to the south campus in remembrance of phehla who died have been shocked by phehla 's death .  " we 're shocked and embarrassed by the management , because we pleaded with them to give us transport to go to the union buildings but instead they stopped them . if they 'd given us transport , the incident would 've not happened . "  watch : the reason for the protests  students say they 're still waiting on phehla 's family for information about funeral arrangements .  ' police watched as phehla was run over by a car '  students at the tut claim police stood by and watched as phehla was run over .  a tut student told eyewitness news that police and security guards continued fighting with protesters instead of pursuing the person responsible for lesego 's injuries .  " everything happened in front of the south african police service . instead of running after the person who injured phehla they were busy brutalising our students . "  police say they wo n't be commenting on the claims as they 're still under investigation .  tut spokesperson willa de ruyter and friends .