Most backache can be treated without surgery
http://www.health24.com/Medical/Backache/News/most-backache-can-be-treated-without-surgery-20161104

according to a rehabilitation specialist , a physician should ask about the history of your back pain , including its exact location , what makes it feel better or worse and what may have caused it .  back pain is a common problem , but most cases can be treated without surgery , a sports medicine specialist says .  isolating the cause  sometime during their lives , up to 80 percent of people will have back pain that lasts more than three days .  the first step in treating back pain is understanding it , according to dr gregory billy , a physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist with penn state sports medicine .  " a physician should ask about the history of your pain , including its exact location , what makes it feel better or worse and what may have caused it , " billy said in a university news release . " a physical exam helps isolate the cause of the pain -- for example , what happens when you stand , sit , lift your leg or walk ? mris of many older adults are likely to depict damage , but the damage captured in that image may not be the current cause of back pain , " billy said .  for minor back pain , treatments include over-the-counter pain relievers or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) such as ibuprofen , or applying ice to stop spasms and heat to relieve soreness/aching , he said .  it 's important to continue normal daily activities as much as possible . too much time in bed can result in muscle and spine tightening , he added .  from our sponsor  ask the expert  susan qualified as a physiotherapist in 1990 , and completed her master 's degree in physiotherapy in 2013 at the university of pretoria . she has a special interest in human biomechanics , as well as the interaction between domestic and work-related ergonomics .  posted on 09-10-2016  posted on 08-10-2016  still have a question ?  get free advice from our panel of experts  your question  more detail  your name ( optional )  the information provided should consult a medical practitioner or other appropriate health care professional for a physical exmanication , diagnosis and formal advice . health24 and the expert accept no responsibility or liability for any damage or personal harm you may suffer resulting from making use of this content .  get a daily health tip  stay in touch  the information on health24 is for educational purposes only , and is not intended as medical advice , diagnosis or treatment . if you are experiencing symptoms or need health advice , please consult a healthcare professional . see additional information .