Rebels in Syria fought with rare, expensive Nazi-made rifles
http://www.dailynewsx.com/news/business-news/rebels-in-syria-fought-with-rare-expensive-nazi-made-rifles-56129.html

rebels in syria fought with rare , expensive nazi-made rifles  world war ii history buffs are going to lose their minds . a syrian rebel faction called the al-tawhid brigade stumbled on an arms cache of 5,000 german wwii-era sturmgwehr 44 ( stg-44 ) rifles .  the stg-44 was designed to increase the volume of fire for german infantry units fighting on the eastern front against the soviet red army . it accomplished this mission but was developed too late in the war to make an impact .  a german soldier demonstrates a sturmgwehr equipped with a scope during testing in 1943 .  the rebels thought they 'd found a cache of ak-47s . the two do n't look that much alike , but it 's understandable how the ill-armed and ill-equipped group would get excited at their find anyway .  we are the mighty  besides , there 's little reason to see how 5,000 nazi-built rifles worth an estimated $30,000 apiece ended up in the syrian desert .  the al-tawhid brigade was an islamist faction originally allied with the government of bashar al-asad . in 2013 , the al-tawhid brigade along with 11 other factions , would leave the coalition and join al-qaeda . that same year , its head commander died of wounds sustained in a syrian government air strike and the group 's membership would defect to the various other groups fighting pro-asad forces . the group is now defunct .  there is no word on what happened to the rare , expensive nazi relics . for those keeping tabs at home , that 's a $150 million dollar loss .  keep an eye out for those stg-44s . they 've shown up in state-sponsored gun buybacks in california and connecticut .  read the original article on we are the mighty . copyright 2016 . follow we are the mighty on twitter .  he was born in california , us . he graduated from california university with a degree in computer sciences , and now works for reuters and running this weekly newspaper . alongside his day jobs in reuters , mcdonald is also broadcasting a weekly gazette .