MBA and Ricoh in multi-million pound landmark deal
http://www.graphicrepro.co.za/asp/news_long.asp?nid=25723

FULL STORY MBA Group and Ricoh are proud to announce a new partnership signifying the UK ? s first commitment to Ricoh ? s continuous colour inkjet technology with investment in three Ricoh Pro VC60000 continuous inkjet digital presses . The announcement is part of MBA ? s ? 5 million strategic investment programme to provide a best in class communication platform to customers across all digital channels .  Ricoh believes the Pro VC60000 will open up new markets for British printers by setting a benchmark for quality in its class as a result of its unique multi drop ink technology . The order follows installations across Europe including in Finland , The Netherlands , France , Germany and Sweden .  The modular based system is the most versatile colour inkjet system available on the market and marks a new milestone in the evolution of variable printing , elevating it to a level not previously experienced through inkjet technology .  MBA ? s investment is made in tandem with an expanding IT infrastructure and equally as important , the personnel to support the ethos company ? s three hundred strong staff are now engaged in data , digital communications , analytics and R&amp;D .  Bachar Aintaoui , CEO of MBA Group explained , ? The digital revolution has transformed how consumers research services and products . To facilitate the price aware and privacy cautious consumer , companies must be able to navigate the ever changing communications landscape , taking advantage of new channels available to reach customers . This is exactly where the MBA Group is able to help companies. ?  The investment will allow MBA to connect customers across any channel , within the context of their communications lifecycle .  The Ricoh Pro VC60000 will introduce a quality of output to support the marketing needs and expectations of customers . The new ink jet technology with dynamic variable drop size provides exceptional print quality . This combines with high productivity with fast speeds able to produce up to 40 million impressions per month providing an efficient solution for high quality variable content .  Said Benoit Chatelard , vice president , production printing , Ricoh Europe , ? This first British launch plan for the Pro VC60000 platform . We are proud to lead the change for the graphic arts market . We ? ve levered our 30 years of inkjet experience to constantly evolve innovative technology , allowing us to continue enhancing client value and increase client satisfaction as they grow and change for the future. ?  MBA ? s investment with Ricoh will begin to roll out in March and continue throughout the spring of 2016.