Former NYDA members shortlisted for 2nd term
http://www.timeslive.co.za/politics/2016/03/24/Former-NYDA-members-shortlisted-for-2nd-term

iraq 's armed forces went on the offensive against islamic state in the northern province of nineveh on thursday in what prime minister haider al-abadi described as the first phase of a campaign to liberate areas around the city of mosul .  after wrapping up her rebel heart tour earlier this week , figures have confirmed that madonna still holds the record as the highest-grossing solo touring artist , taking in a total of $1.31 billion reports billboard .  dr michael mol and john berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals , but that does n't mean dessert is off the menu . try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  the bmw group is celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2016 with a line-up of centenary events focusing on " the next 100 years . " with an outlook fixed firmly on the future , the group has pioneering concept cars on the agenda , together with a whole series of events .  shakespeare 's skull is likely missing from his grave , an years about grave-robbers and adding to the mystery surrounding the bard 's remains .  a week after the term of the national youth development agency 's term came to an end , the ad-hoc committee has shortlisted two of the previous board members .  save &amp; share  former board executive chairperson yershen pillay and his deputy kenny morolong , are among 13 people who will be interviewed by parliamentarians next week before members of parliament reduce the list down to seven .  " it 's quite humbling that i just get to have another opportunity . one looks forward to whatever parliament has to decide at the end of the day , " pillay said .  taking over from an agency that was in irregular expenditure of r133 million in 2013 , pillay said he is content that he has fulfilled what he and his board members were initially appointed for .  " three years ago , we were tasked as the new board , that we needed stabilise the nyda . we have transformed the agency into a more credible and capable development agency entity is now functional and has actually responded to the needs and interest of young people , " said pillay .  pillay was elected by president jacob zuma in 2013 after going through a selection committee that constituted from about 15 mps , with four from the opposition and the rest from the anc . interviews for candidates were concluded on 30 may 2012 .  the young communist league of south africa , which pillay sits as the national chairperson , endorsed him to take a second term at the state-owned entity .  " as i concluded my term with the sense of satisfaction that indeed we 've done cleaned up the agency , there 's no real expectation for me . i was humbled by the ycl 's nomination and i accepted it , " said pillay  the agency , which has a r409 million budget received its first ever clean audit last year , a drastic improvement after squandering millions on a controversial youth festival in 2011 . pillay who admits that they took over from a dysfunctional agency , have been able to reduce 2012-2013 financial year to r16.7-million in 2013- 2014 , and to r580 000 in 2014-2015 .  this , pillay states , was achieved through collective leadership which was united .  " having a strong and productive working relationship , i have no doubt in my mind that if any of the current board members would be reappointed , it would just make it much that much easier because we have a strong foundation and we know what the issues are ... which builds well for continuity , " said pillay .  the board members finished their term without suspension , resignation , terminations or scandals , pillay states .