MEC welcomes Cuban doctors to Limpopo
http://capricornreview.co.za/89210/mec-welcomes-cuban-doctors-to-limpopo/

news feed  mec welcomes cuban doctors to limpopo  south africa has a serious shortage of doctors and specialists , which has a direct impact on limpopo  15 hours ago  cuba 's ambassador to south africa , carlos fernandez de cossio .  polokwane -- to ensure this does not affect the quality of healthcare received by patients , mec for health , dr phophi ramathuba , welcomed 22 new cuban doctors to limpopo 's healthcare last friday .  this brings the number of cuban doctors in the province to 57 .  " we bring in these doctors to assist us in implementing preventative healthcare at our facilities . the doctors are expected to treat the patients holistically and should be the people 's doctor , " said ramathuba .  " these doctors will not only focus on the disease that has been brought to their attention by the patients , but also check on the cause and related diseases to ensure we prevent future outbreaks . "  she added that along with the placement of cuban doctors at the has reduced by approximately 50% .  " the presence of the cuban doctors assists in the provision of seminars and continued training for all doctors in the regional hospitals . they are expected to organise and give lectures to other doctors in their field of study , this keeps them , and other doctors up to date in their work and the happenings in their communities , " she said .  the appointment of the cuban doctors has reduced the workload on other doctors in the province , ramathuba added .  " it is encouraging that most hospitals stated that the mortality rate has decreased . in the regional hospitals , the presence of the cuban doctors has assisted in the departmentalisation process and also in the establishment of specialist clinics .  " we are confident that through their hard working spirit , we can ultimately better the lives of our communities with the implementation of the curative healthcare approach . "  cuban doctor , dr armando sanchez canal , voices his gratitude to the limpopo government and the department of health in their willingness to well as making them feel welcome in the province .