Murder victim owed money to accused
http://www.iol.co.za/weekend-argus/murder-victim-owed-money-to-accused-2013247

murder victim owed money to accused  zarah hector 's murder was maliciously planned by two of her friends , the blue down 's magistrate 's court heard .  an affidavit penned by investigative officer , sergeant denise perel , details how the 33-year-old kuils river mother had been bludgeoned to death with a hammer on march 15 for her boyfriend 's bmw z3 , which was later dumped in observatory .  renaldo van rooyen , 34 , abandoned his bail application .  his co-accused , tawfeeq ibrahim , 26 , took the stand , yesterday , to explain to the court why he should be released . the two face charges of murder , robbery and defeating the ends of justice .  it was on march 14 , a day before hector was killed , that the two men were said to have hatched a plan to kill her because she owed van rooyen money .  a phone call was said to have saved hector 's life on that day , but she would not be that lucky the next time when he was arrested with van rooyen days after hector 's disappearance and murder , prosecutor nathan adriaanse said : " renaldo said he wanted a car from this girl , zara . we could sell it for money because zara owed him a lot of money . "  hector was lured to van rooyen 's home just after 8pm , where she was attacked . she took five blows to the head with a hammer before van rooyen and ibrahim wrapped her limp body in a canvas , tied it with rope , and loaded it into the back of her boyfriend 's bmw z3 -- which was parked in van rooyen 's garage .  an autopsy report confirms that hector died of " blunt force trauma " to the head , which coincides with the version of events explained in ibrahim 's confession .  the two were said to have driven to groot drakenstein to dispose of her body by dumping it in the bushes before leaving for bishop lavis to try to sell the car , allegedly for drugs .  two witnesses can place . the state argued that van rooyen and ibrahim had tried to sell the bmw z3 for r5 000 .  adriaanse said that ibrahim , a father of two and self-confessed drug addict , could not be trusted because he tried to persuade a state witness to lie to police , tampered with vital evidence and tried to mislead police .  adriaanse said ibrahim told hector 's friend , judy bremmer , not to tell police she had dropped him off in salt river , and to tell the police she knew nothing about the bmw z3 .  throughout the bail hearing , ibrahim declined to deny or confirm any information .  he said he did not know van rooyen despite a confession in the state ' s possession .