Robber nabbed after falling into swimming pool
http://www.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/robber-nabbed-after-falling-into-swimming-pool-2014718

robber nabbed after falling into swimming pool  cape town - this would-be criminal ended up in not so hot water in grassy park .  now the home owner thanks his lucky stars that he arrived home before his rottweiler , outjie , found the intruder .  waleed abrahams , 39 , says it was " pure luck " that outjie was locked up when the man entered his property in the early hours of saturday morning .  had outjie gotten a hold of the suspect , he would definitely have attacked .  waleed says : " my dog has never bit anyone but had he found that person in the yard , he would have done it .  " luckily my dog was in front and did n't get hold of him as that would have been the end of my dog 's life as saps rather prefer shooting dogs than criminals . "  he was referring to the incident in lotus river last month , when pit bulls , paco and rocco , attacked and killed wayne " wayntjie fence to try and steal a weber braai .  a policeman shot paco twice to get him off kayster , who later died in hospital .  waleed says he arrived home at 4am and became suspicious when he noticed his gate was slightly ajar .  " i opened my garage door and pulled in before calling my father who lives on the property , " he explains .  " when he arrived we went around to investigate and noticed the man hiding in a bathtub . we are busy renovating so there is building material lying around .  " he came out and gave me some story about getting robbed and then he pushed past me to run away and during the scuffle he fell on the ground and as he tried to get up again , he fell into the pool .  " we called police at 4:03am and then my family made another two calls but they still did n't come out .  " the guy was getting cold so we told him to get out and lie on the side of police arrived at past six . "  meanwhile , waleed took pictures of the soaking wet criminal .  police spokesperson noloyiso rwexana confirms a 35-year-old suspect was arrested for attempted house breaking and trespassing .  waleed also slammed grassy park police for taking so long to arrive at the scene .