Boost procurement to speed up gas-fired power plants, Siemens says
http://www.bdlive.co.za/business/energy/2016/05/18/boost-procurement-to-speed-up-gas-fired-power-plants-siemens-says

Boost procurement to speed up gas-fired power plants , Siemens says  by Agency Staff May 18 2016 , 17:04  SA 's plan to develop gas-fired power plants could be accelerated if the government fast-tracks smaller-scale projects , according to Siemens .  " Even the tendering process could be much faster than what is currently anticipated , " Siemens 's executive vice-president for power and gas in Africa , Andreas Pistauer , said . " Our advice is to fast-track procurement . "  SA created a gas industrialisation unit earlier this week to implement a 3,726MW gas-to-power programme , after load shedding last year curbed growth in an economy at risk of slipping into recession . The government is trying to reduce the nation 's dependence on coal and spur the development of infrastructure to support domestic gas supplies .  Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said last week that a preliminary information memo on the gas-to-power programme would be available later this year , after earmarking another 600MW for partnerships between private and state-owned companies .  SA could start procurement immediately , Pistauer works starting only in 2-3 years . A smaller initial project , with the government procuring gas separately , could result in construction beginning next year , with power being supplied in two years , he said .  In this article  SA 's plan to develop gas-fired power plants could be accelerated if the government fast-tracks smaller-scale projects , according to Siemens .  " Even the tendering process could be much faster than what is currently anticipated , " Siemens 's executive vice-president for power and gas in Africa , Andreas Pistauer , said . " Our advice is to fast-track procurement . "  SA created a gas industrialisation unit earlier this week to implement a 3,726MW gas-to-power programme , after load shedding last year curbed growth in an economy at risk of slipping into recession . The government is trying to reduce the nation 's dependence on coal and spur the development of infrastructure to support domestic gas supplies .  Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson said last week that a preliminary information memo on the gas-to-power programme would be available later this year , after earmarking  SA could start procurement immediately , Pistauer said , while the current trajectory would result in site works starting only in 2-3 years . A smaller initial project , with the government procuring gas separately , could result in construction beginning next year , with power being supplied in two years , he said .  Business Sites  Network Sites  Tools &amp; Services  News Updates  Times Media ( Pty ) Ltd disclaims all liability for any loss , damage , injury or expense however caused , arising from the use of or reliance upon , in any manner , the information provided through this service and does not warrant the truth , accuracy or completeness of the information provided .