Ex-DRC warlord to get 25 years
http://www.iol.co.za/news/africa/ex-drc-warlord-to-get-25-years-2023247

ex-drc warlord to get 25 years  the hague - war crimes prosecutors on wednesday called for former congolese vice president jean-pierre bemba to be sentenced " to at least 25 years " in prison for a slew of rapes and murders in the central african republic over a decade ago .  bemba sat stony-faced at the end of three days of hearings at the international criminal court ( icc ) , as prosecution lawyers rejected his defence team 's calls for a lesser jail term .  " the sentence recommended by the prosecution ... should not be less than 25 years of imprisonment , " chief icc prosecutor fatou bensouda told the court in the hague .  such a sentence would be justified by " the gravity of the offences committed by m. bemba and his degree of culpability . "  after a lengthy trial which opened in november 2010 , the judges in march found bemba guilty of five charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity .  the three judges agreed with the prosecution that bemba had retained " into the central african republic car to quell an attempted coup against the then president .  his congolese liberation movement ( mlc ) carried out a brutal series of rapes and murders in a campaign of terror , which experts testified would have long-term traumatic effects on the car people for generations .  bemba 's defence team had called for a jail term not exceeding 12 to 14 years .  but another prosecutor , jean-jacques badibanga , said such a sentence would have the " absurd consequences " of seeing a more lenient term applied by the icc then in national courts trying people for murder and rape .  the judges will hand down their sentence at a later date .  the crimes in the car between october 2002 and march 2003 had been committed against " particularly defenceless victims " and " with particular cruelty , " the prosecutor told the court .  there " were no mitigating circumstances " which would allow the sentence to be reduced , he argued .  after the car conflict , bemba , a wealthy **26;90;toolong , 's transitional government .  in 2006 , he lost to kabila in a presidential run-off . he fled the next year into what he called " forced exile " in europe and was arrested in brussels in 2008 and handed over to the icc .