Injured Jobodwana retains focus on Olympic medal
http://www.citizen.co.za/1121347/injured-jobodwana-retains-focus-on-olympic-medal/

injured jobodwana retains focus on olympic medal  ' i 'm being very cautious , but i think i 'm in the final stages of rehab . '  sprinter anaso jobodwana is confident he can earn a medal at the rio olympics , though he remains locked in a race against time as he tries to shake off a pelvic injury less than three months ahead of the games .  jobodwana confirmed on wednesday he had parted ways with british coach stuart mcmillan and abandoned his training base in phoenix , arizona , with the sa sports confederation and olympic committee ( sascoc ) sending him to durban to work with dr kevin suddan at the prime institute high performance and sports medicine centre .  " i 'm being very cautious , but i think i 'm in the final stages of rehab , " said the 23-year-old speedster , who has not raced since picking up the pelvic injury in the 100m heats at the african games in brazzaville eight months ago .  " i see the doctor every day and we been on the track i 've built confidence because i 've come off the track feeling good and i wake up the next day without repercussions from the training , " he said .  " the doctor said to me yesterday that i was in a good place to move up to a higher intensity . "  jobodwana was sidelined for the entire 2014 season due to a sports hernia , which required an operation , but he bounced back last year to earn the 200m bronze medal at the world championships in beijing , clocking a national record of 19.87 seconds .  having gained plenty experience at international level since reaching the half-lap final as a teenager at the 2012 london olympics , he believed he could hit the ground running in rio , even if he was forced to run his first race of 2016 in the opening round at the games .  ideally , however , he hoped to turn out in at least two top-flight league meetings in europe in july , in order to sharpen up before the multi-sport showpiece .  , so by the time i get to rio i 'm not stepping into an arena where i 'm out of my league .  " coming from world champs , i know i 'm capable of doing it . "  jobodwana said he was in the process of finding a new coach , and though he had started discussions with a potential mentor , negotiations were ongoing .