Racist claims segregation 'is God's law'
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/kwazulu-natal/racist-claims-segregation-is-gods-law-2037681

Racist claims segregation ' is God 's law '  Johannesburg - An unapologetic racist says " blacks and government workers " are not allowed to stay at his guest house because " it 's God 's law " to segregate people by race .  Andr Slate , the owner of Sodwana Bay Guest House , stated in an email that they " do not accommodate blacks or government employees any longer " . Screengrab : Facebook . Credit : FACEBOOK  Andr ? Slate , the owner of Sodwana Bay Guest House in KwaZulu-Natal , made this declaration when responding to a booking enquiry sent by Sizakele Msimango on Wednesday .  " We do not accommodate blacks or government employees any longer , " he stated in an email .  Msimango said she and her cousin had found the place - whose tagline on the internet is " Better than home " - and were looking to book for 12 people .  " I was so angry . When I showed my cousin , she said we should post it on social mail , saying : " This is appalling . This makes me wonder to myself if the president of this country ( the country you live in ) is not allowed in your whites-only guest house since he is black ? "  Slate , the self-proclaimed " King of the Zulu/Heavenly Kingdom " , is a religious fanatic who , in his blog and book called Where to from Here , Cognition , states that blacks need to be kept separate from other races .  When The Star phoned the 52-year-old , who says he has a " great passion for the ocean , nature and people " , he seemed unperturbed : " My book explains everything . You can not speak to me until you 've read my book . "  He went on to say he was aware that the Constitution did not allow discrimination based on race , but he followed only one law .  " Well , according to your Constitution , perhaps yes , but we work according to God 's law , and according to God 's law , we that he left here ... the law you have in South Africa is Satan 's law . "  In his blog , wheretofromhere.org , Slate mentions DA leader Mmusi Maimane , who he calls a " beast " and " little bastard " .  After the matter blew up on social media , other people tried calling him themselves , and got the same response Msimango did .