Kennards online hire makes their customer's job even easier
http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/kennards-online-hire-makes-their-customers-job-even-easier-2016-06-23

Note : Search is limited to the most recent 250 articles . To access earlier articles , click Advanced Search and set an earlier date range.To search for a term containing the ' &amp; ' symbol , click Advanced Search and use the ' search headings ' and/or ' in first paragraph ' options .  Kennards online hire makes their customer 's job even easier  It has taken a small , dedicated army to build the new website for Kennards Hire which is now officially live and is already making waves in the industry . Using the first live equipment hire platform in Australia , customers can now browse , select and book all the tools for the job from their computer , tablet or smartphone .  The new website is fully accessible ( in its beta stage ) via the existing www.kennards.com.au website but is set to launch in its entirety late July 2016 . Chief Operating Officer and acting CEO of Kennards Hire , Bill Whitehouse , said delivering a convenient , anywhere , anytime option for hiring was a key motivator know our customers can be time poor and unexpected jobs can pop up on-site last minute , " Bill explained . " To help customers we wanted to provide an easy browse , order and pay online service available 24/7 . "  Theo Triantafillides , Chief Commercial Officer , said giving Kennards Hire customers ease and convenience was the main driver in the creation of the new site . " We spent months refining it to be something that made sense and is easy for the customer , as well as providing an excellent self-service experience , " Theo said . " The website delivers on the Kennards Hire brand promise , ' Make Your Job Easy ' . "  The site includes ' how to ' guides and videos to help Kennards Hire customers do a great job safely . Account customers can access their accounts and also pay invoices online .  Widening the scope of their service , the new website appeals to all varieties of Kennards Hire customer , from tradies and commercial users to DIYers , weekend warriors and everything in-between .  Kennards it 's just three easy steps to hire online -- find the equipment , make a reservation and checkout . The equipment can be picked up at a local branch or delivered on site . Visit the new Kennards Hire website here www.kennards.com.au  After the great success of the first online competition in 2014 , EuroBLECH 2016 is presenting this year " The New Generation of Sheet Metal Working " . The online competition will reward six organisations or individuals in the sheet metal working industry for best practice , innovation , excellence and outstanding performance in six categories . Following this year 's main theme at EuroBLECH , " The New Generation of Sheet Metal Working " , the competition categories are focussing on recent developments ... ?