Didiza's appointment ranks high in stupidity stakes
http://www.iol.co.za/sundayindependent/didizas-appointment-ranks-high-in-stupidity-stakes-2038604

didiza 's appointment ranks high in stupidity stakes  sunday independent / 26 jun ' 16 , 10:09am  opinion  the anc 's decision on thoko didiza is so stupefying it leads me to suspect something fishy is going on , writes xolela mangcu .  cape town - united states president barack obama has a rule of thumb when it comes to political decision making : " do n't do stupid . " he is of course not the first us president to leave us with a memorable phrase .  the anc 's tshwane mayoral candidate thoko didiza . insisting on didiza despite her unpopularity may satisfy the ego of the party leadership but it is also the surest way to seek defeat at the polls , says the writer . file pcture : bruce venter . credit : independent media  ted sorensen crafted john f kennedy 's now immortalised line : " ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for your country . "  richard nixon infamously declared he was not a " gorbachev to " tear down that wall " .  his rather dour successor , george herbert walker bush , boldly declared that saddam hussein 's invasion of kuwait would " not stand " . he also urged americans to " read my lips , no new taxes " , before proceeding to break that pledge and hand the presidency over to bill clinton .  clinton was such a charmer that even the white house press gallery applauded his denial of his relationship with monica lewinsky : " i did not have a relationship with that woman , ms lewinsky . "  notwithstanding his misadventures , clinton inspired america to its longest economic growth in history with the slogan : " it 's the economy stupid . "  it is really hard to pick from the younger george bush 's malapropisms .  the guy mistook himself for jesus : " i trust god speaks through me . without that i could n't do my job . "  president obama 's turn of phrase has not been as uplifting as candidate obama . as the saying goes  to be sure , there is his unforgettable belting out of amazing grace during the funeral of the victims of the charleston shooter , and his dropping of the mike at the white house correspondents ' dinner , to even greater applause than clinton on lewinsky ?  however , it is obama 's " do n't do stupid " maxim that is relevant for south africa right now .  the anc 's appointment of thoko didiza as its mayoral candidate ranks up there in the stupidity stakes .  how could the party not anticipate the violence that came in its wake , especially in light of the violence that is wracking the party apart in other municipalities ?  was there no intelligence - not just the human kind - that could have helped it predict such an outcome ? or is there something about the word " local " in local leadership that the anc does not understand ?  no , local does not mean mere residency or membership of a branch . local means having deep-seated , organic roots to a community and involvement someone in from national leadership .  if anything , this revolt reveals a profound distrust of the party 's national leadership . max weber would have called it a crisis of legitimate authority .  weber divided authority into three types - charismatic , rational-legal and praebendal . charismatic authority is embodied in the hero who leads his people out of bondage .  the biblical moses is the ancient example and george washington , nelson mandela and julius nyerere are modern examples . however , weber also said this authority " exists only in origination " .  as soon as a political movement achieves victory , its leadership must quickly dissolve into rational-legal authority . rules , laws and knowledge about matters of state substitute for charisma .  unfortunately , rational-legal authority often finds it difficult to embed itself in society . because of its bureaucratic and technocratic orientation , it soon substitutes itself for the people . it turns democratic authorisation into self-authorisation .  as thabo mbeki rudely learned , when a leader substitutes himself for the people , he invites rebellion .  the hand , a new charismatic leader can emerge to establish a new legitimate authority . on the other hand , this charismatic leader can eschew seeking institutional legitimacy and set himself up as the patriarch of the nation .  a classic feature of this type of authority is the failure to distinguish between private and public property . weber might as well have had nkandla in mind when he described his third type of authority - praebendal authority .  this is what people are rebelling against . it is truly sad to listen to anc leaders mimicking the national party of yore by telling us the violence is the work of criminals . the last time i heard such gobbledygook was in pw botha 's time . maybe it is true that the gods do indeed make crazy those they seek to destroy .  if herr motsoeneng is capable of learning anything from the tshwane violence it should be that you can ban footage and live in your own cloud cuckoo-land but you can not ban social reality .  the anc 's decision on didiza is so on , even though i ca n't put my finger on it . could the guptas be involved ?  you just never know these days . this being south africa , something will emerge , sooner or later .  insisting on didiza despite her unpopularity may satisfy the ego of the party leadership but it is also the surest way to seek defeat at the polls , at the hands of its own disgruntled voters . in football , this is called scoring an own goal .  there is also the big elephant in the room - ethnicity .  i make bold to say that denying the reality of ethnicity is as stupid as denying the reality of race in south africa . it is an exercise in what the distinguished philosopher kwame anthony appiah called hard rationalism .  this is the dogmatic insistence , shared by many liberals and marxists alike , that social identities do not have any validity because they are not scientific .  they argue these identities are constructed out of false consciousness . even if that were the case it of their false consciousness before you can act on the world .  the last time someone tried that , stalin left 20 million people dead . against this dogmatism i would offer the wise counsel of pragmatic philosopher , william james : " there is always the pinch between the ideal and the actual , which can only be got through by leaving part of the ideal behind . there is hardly a good which we can imagine except as competing for the possession of the same bit of space and time with some other imagined good . "  the way out of such dilemmas comes from what sydney hook , another pragmatic philosopher , called conscientiousness , or " reflexive inquiry into the features of a situation " .  sometimes we will recognise identities and sometimes we will realise we are much more than our ontologies . let identity recognition and identity transcendence share " the same bit of space and time . " we have social identities but we are much more than them .  the metaphor of the rainbow nation should apply to ethnic is no such thing as a colourless rainbow .  but we know that the rainbow is more than an arrangement of colours , it has a transcendent identity . when it appears we do n't stop to say : " look , colours on the sky . " we say , in wonderment : " look , there 's a rainbow ! "  mangcu is professor of sociology at the university of cape town and the 2015 harry oppenheimer fellow .  the views expressed here are not necessarily those of independent media .