Kingsley Holgate sets off to Ethopia's 'ocean of salt'
http://www.destinyman.com/2016/06/26/kingsley-holgate-sets-off-ethopian-ocean-salt/

Kingsley Holgate sets off to Ethopia 's ' ocean of salt '  Kingsley Holgate , ambassador for Land Rover 's Hope Crosses Any Terrain initiatice , has set off on his latest expedition into Africa  Among a sway of colorful traditional dancing , ululations and praise , African adventurer Kingsley Holgate left South Africa this past week with his son , Ross , and their team in a convoy of specially kitted-out Land Rovers on his latest journey : circumnavigating Chew Bahir in Ethopia .  Located in the Great Rift Valley , Chew Bahir -- which means " ocean of salt " in Amharic -- has a rate of evaporation four times higher than anywhere else in the world . It 's not exactly the most comfortable destination , but that 's never deterred Kingsley and his team .  This time , their focus will be to explore and document the cultural practices of lesser-known tribes in the 64km-long and 24km-wide lake region , while delivering much-needed aid such as mosquito nets , 5 000 pairs of reading glasses and 3 000 LifeStraws to better people 's lives -- how good does that feel ? " Kingsley says , his eyes crinkling with mirth . " Because a day on these journeys is n't complete if we have n't helped someone . In a nutshell , this is why we travel . "  Kingsley Holgate and son , Ross , set off on their Ethiopian adventure on 22 June 2016 ( Picture : Land Rover )  The adventure forms part of Land Rover 's social responsibility arm , Hope Crosses Any Terrain , which runs development , humanitarian and conservation projects in South and sub-Saharan Africa .  At 70 , and with his trademark beard looking more grey than blonde , Kingsley still speaks with enthusiasm for travelling . Chew Bahir will be his 22nd expedition .  " My father was a missionary teacher , and me and three older brothers travelled with him throughout the Congo . It was a hugely fascinating childhood : living the adventurers of African explorers . So the seed for adventure was instilled in me at a very young age , and the moment , I took it . "  It 's a love that 's instilled in his family , and especially in his son , Ross Holgate , who 's accompanied his father on every expedition .  " I would always sit at my father 's feet when he came back home in KwaZulu-Natal from his travels and was enthralled by the stories he told , " Ross explains . " When I was old enough , we decided that every year , we should always do a father-and-son adventure . However , these were limited to South Africa because in those days , South African passports were n't welcome in Africa . "  Using adventure to better people 's lives -- how good does that feel ?  " But straight after school , when that beautiful wind of change swept over South Africa in 1994 , we decided to take advantage of that and came up with this ridiculous idea to travel from the most southern point of Africa to the most northern in Land Rovers , " he says with a grin . " That was our year to complete . "  While their efforts are purely genuine , with a radicalised sentiment of self-determination that 's spreading across South Africa and the continent , there 's a sense that Kingsley 's travels are reminiscent of the African missionaries travelling into " deep , dark Africa " to save the black soul .  " We are always a pan-African team , " Kingsley responds . " For example , our malaria education talks are always done in the language of the area . And crucially , we always travel with local Africans so we are not seen as a bunch of ' white missionary saviours ' pulling into the village . We are seen as being part of the village and part of the community . "  He adds that whatever activity they do in a village , they always ensure that it is fun and inclusive , encouraging villagers to bring musical instruments and mats to enjoy the day . " We do n't have this wagging finger : you better use mosquito nets . We learnt that lesson a long time ago . of my way to compensate for it and not look down on people and their lives . This is the heart of ubuntu for me -- learning a few words in the local language , learning from great people and following protocol . I 'm always very sensitive to this so as not to offend .  " But key to the success of our expeditions is not doing things in isolation . We can not do these trips without local Africans . When I give talks at 4 ? 4 clubs , I 'm always asked what is the most important thing to carry on your travels , and they always expect me to say a spare wheel or a tool box , and are quite amazed whenever I say ' an extra seat or two to travel with local Africans ' . "  Fully kitted Land Rovers  After a warm traditional send-off , the team sets off with Kingsley behind the wheel of Ndhlovukazi ( elephant ) , a Land Rover Defender 130 he also used in 2015 to travel to the geographical " heart of Africa the Congo where they could travel between only 200 and 300 meters a day .  On this trip , they will also be using two Land Rover Discoveries named Turkana and Phokot , named after Great Rift Valley areas in Kenya and Uganda .  Being Land Rovers , the vehicles are pretty capable as it is , but Africa is n't for the faint-hearted , so the vehicles have also been fitted with a list of genuine Land Rover accessories including bull bars , front under protection plates , spotlights , snorkels , roof racks , ladders and heavy-duty tow hitches in the rear and front .  Kingsley 's Ndhlovukazi ( elephant ) , a Land Rover Defender 130 he used on his past trip in 2015 . ( Picture : Eddie Kalili )