Qaeda fighters kidnap US-backed rebel chief in Syria
http://www.news24.com/World/News/qaeda-fighters-kidnap-us-backed-rebel-chief-in-syria-20160703

Related Links  Beirut - US-backed rebels on Sunday accused al-Qaeda-linked fighters of storming their headquarters in northwestern Syria and kidnapping their commander and dozens of other combatants .  In an online statement , Jaish al-Tahrir ( Liberation Army ) said its commander , Mohammad al-Ghabi , was abducted from his father 's home in the town of Kafranbel by Al-Nusra Front jihadists on Saturday evening .  It said Al-Nusra fighters also " kidnapped more than 40 members of Jaish al-Tahrir " and stole weapons from other bases and checkpoints set up in northwestern Syria .  " We call on Al-Nusra Front to immediately release our commander and all the others who were kidnapped , " the statement said , urging other Islamist groups to put pressure on the jihadists .  The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights confirmed the incident and said the US had supported Jaish al-Tahrir with weapons and even salaries in the past .  Al-Nusra has attacked several US-backed groups in northwestern Idlib province - most recently raiding the warehouses of Division 13 in the town of Maarat al-Numan , it kidnapped several members of US-trained rebel group Division 30 .  Idlib province is controlled by the Army of Conquest , an alliance of Islamist and rebel fighters led by Al-Nusra and hardline group Ahrar al-Sham .  Residents of towns like Maarat al-Numan and Kafranbel have demonstrated against Al-Nusra 's jihadist ideology .  Syria 's five-year conflict began with anti-government demonstrations before turning into a complex war increasingly dominated by extremist groups .  More than 280 000 people have been killed and millions have been forced to flee their homes since March 2011 .  Tell us a bit about yourself :  Saving your profile  Settings  News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " Submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  Your Location*  Weather*  Always remember my setting  Saving your settings  Facebook Sign-In  Hi News addict ,  Join the News24 Community to be Facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .