Elderly man dies after 30 minutes of CPR
http://randfonteinherald.co.za/223223/elderly-man-dies-after-30-minutes-of-cpr/

News feed  Elderly man dies after 30 minutes of CPR  ' His son arrived at the scene and sat next to the patient , talking to him while I was doing CPR '  19 hours ago  Elna Haywood , Rianie Grov ? and Ashleigh Vos -- the three healthcare professionals who responded to the incidents .  An elderly man collapsed after apparently suffering a heart attack in Randgate last week .  The incident took place on Friday , 1 July at approximately 9:40am between the entrance of the Randgate Spar and the Absa ATM .  A security guard saw the man collapse and ran to Randgate Pharmacy seeking assistance . Rianie Grov ? , a nurse at the pharmacy , took it upon herself to respond to the emergency .  She arrived at the scene and realised that the man was n't breathing and needed CPR . " I was struggling to give oxygen to the man and had to use a CPR one-way valve to breathe air into his lungs , " Grov ? said .  Bystanders " His son arrived on the scene . He sat next to his father , talking to him while I was doing CPR , " Grov ? said . Grov ? spent half an hour performing CPR .  While Grov ? was tending to her patient , another elderly man , ( aged 67 ) , was crossing Union Street when the side mirror of a passing bakkie grazed his upper body . As a result , his upper body twisted and he collapsed onto the sidewalk . It was later discovered that the head of his thigh-bone ( the femur ) had fractured .  Given the condition of the initial patient , Grov ? was unable to attend to the second victim . " I had to help the most critical patient first , " Grov ? said .  The critically ill heart attack victim was later loaded into an ambulance and rushed to hospital , but sadly he died en route .  The less critical patient was rushed to Leratong Hospital , where he is now recovering .  Elna Haywood , Rianie Grov ? to the incidents .  Rianie Grov ? , the nurse who performed CPR for a half an hour on the elderly heart attack victim .  Want to receive news alerts via WhatsApp ? Send us an SMS/ WhatsApp message with your name and cellphone number to 079 413 8726.