Latest oil slide triggers more bets against commodity currencies
http://www.businesstimes.com.sg/energy-commodities/latest-oil-slide-triggers-more-bets-against-commodity-currencies

you are here  latest oil slide triggers more bets against commodity currencies  london bets against commodity-linked emerging currencies are on the rise again as crude prices fall to around us$30 a barrel , but volatility remains well below the peaks of last year .  brent crude 's renewed tumble this year has put commodity exporters ' currencies on course to extend last year 's losses and some , such as the south african rand and the mexican peso , have hit record lows .  the russian rouble is inching lower too , 4 per cent off record lows struck towards the end of 2014 , and these spot market losses are filtering into options markets where investors can try to hedge against further weakness . " the oil price fall does pose a challenge for commodity exporters as the weakness is n't fully priced into all the fiscal outlooks yet , " said dominic bunning , a strategist at hsbc .  he said most exporting countries had calculated their 2016 budgets using much higher oil prices - russia 's for instance assumes us$40 . " even if oil stabilises at these levels , fiscal assumptions will be impacted quite dramatically , " bunning added .  one-month implied volatility - a gauge of expected exchange rate swings derived from options prices - on the rouble has risen off five-month lows touched at the end of the year , having risen around 4 percentage points to around 20 per cent .  vols on the south african rand have jumped to a three-week high of 23.6 per cent while those on the brazilian real last week hit 2-1/2 month highs before subsiding volatility is on the rise across asset classes , ranging from wall street 's main fear gauge of us blue-chip volatility to euro/dollar rates and us junk bonds . among developed currencies , the canadian dollar has hit near 13-year lows and the norwegian crown is near its lowest in more than a year . implied vols on both are at multi-month peaks .  gulf currencies , pegged to the dollar , are under pressure too , with the saudi riyal setting record lows in the one-year forward market .  on a currency rising or falling - also show growing bias for dollar strength versus most em currencies .  one-month risk reversals on the rouble show bias towards the dollar hit six-week highs at the end of last week while dollar/rand reversals were at one-month highs .  bearish bets on commodity currencies are however well off the peaks hit last august when the chinese equity market slumped .  rouble vols , for instance , were around 70 in early 2015 while rand vols remain off four-year highs hit last month after the sudden removal of a respected finance minister . brazilian vols rose to around 20 last week but are nowhere near last september 's levels around 30 .  indonesian rupiah vols inched up last week but have slipped back to mid-december lows . " vol markets have not reacted massively to the latest leg down in oil markets and that 's possibly because ... positioning is already very long vol , " said luis costa , head of ceemea fx and debt strategy at citi .  there may also be a sense of many currencies falls versus the dollar .  the rouble for instance has shed 2.2 per cent so far this year , far less than brent 's 12 per cent plunge . there is also little sign of panic-selling among the public - a factor that influenced central bank intervention in 2014 . " there are arguments why the weakness may not be as acute as last year and that comes down to valuations , " bunning of hsbc said . " second , the market is getting used to the idea that the yuan will trade with more volatility . last august it was like a big bang , now the shock value is not there to the same degree . "