Two new stat boards to drive SkillsFuture movement
http://www.todayonline.com/singapore/new-statutory-board-drive-skillsfuture-movement

main menu  newstream  singapore  two new stat boards to drive skillsfuture movement  by bringing the ssg under moe 's purview , the government can tap both institutes of higher learning and private training providers to ' move skillsfuture efforts forward as part of a holistic system of lifelong learning ' . today file photo  singapore -- two new statutory boards will be formed to drive the skillsfuture movement and help singaporeans find the jobs they want , a move welcomed by observers , who cited better alignment across the wide variety of training programmes available and improving quality in the private education sector as among the likely benefits .  the first statutory board , skillsfuture singapore ( ssg ) -- overseen by the ministry of education ( moe ) -- will focus on the implementation of skillsfuture , coordinating both pre-employment training ( pet ) and continuing education and training ( cet ) for workers . the council for private education ( cpe ) , currently the regulatory body for the private-education sector , will be subsumed under the ssg . said the workforce skills qualification scheme , which was under the workforce development agency ( wda ) , would also come under ssg 's purview .  the wda will become workforce singapore , overseen by the ministry of manpower ( mom ) . it will retain the wda 's functions of employment facilitation , career services and industry engagement .  mps interviewed by today noted the benefits of having skillsfuture programmes come under the purview of one entity . " it makes absolute sense that if learning is lifelong , then there should be one ministry promoting and coordinating both pet and cet . working in silos does not make sense , " said ms denise phua ( jalan besar grc ) . currently , oversight of both pet and cet initiatives is split between both the moe and mom .  ms phua , who is also chairperson of the government parliamentary committee ( gpc ) for education , added that the reorganisation would also bring about " greater alignment and porosity across the various training qualification systems -- in academics , vocational , adult learning and even be missing input about the industry that mom could provide , she noted that acting minister for education ( higher education and skills ) ong ye kung , who will be in charge of the skillsfuture movement , was the chairman of the employment and employability institute ( e2i ) " for many years " and many of the higher education institutes had links to industry .  mr ang wei neng ( jurong grc ) said skillsfuture would still very much be " a tripartite relationship " involving , among others , mom , moe and the ministry of trade and industry , ensuring the links with industry are maintained .  in a joint press release announcing the reorganisation today ( jan 12 ) , the moe and mom said that by bringing the ssg under moe 's , the government can tap both institutes of higher learning -- such as polytechnics and universities -- and private training providers " to move skillsfuture efforts forward as part of a holistic system of lifelong learning " .  in a facebook post today , mr ong called the restructuring " and lifelong learning will be one and integrated , " he said . in october last year , mr ong had pointed that the increasing array of higher education credentials -- ranging from qualifications from vocational institutions , to university degrees and industry certification -- must be aligned to " speak the same language " , and this included ensuring quality .