Ant-man shares love for ants on Instagram
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/ant-man-shares-love-for-ants-on-instagram

He may not have the powers of Marvel superhero Ant-Man , who can shrink himself to the size of the insects . But aspiring ant researcher Mark Wong has such a strong passion for studying them that he often spends his weekends crouching close to the ground in nature reserves , eye to eye with his favourite bugs .  " I find them incredibly fascinating ; there are so many different species , each with its own unique behaviour , " said Mr Wong , a 25-year-old civil servant .  Trap-jaw ants , for instance , can open their mandibles ( mouthparts ) very wide and snap them shut rapidly at over 2,300 times faster than the blink of an eye .  This action not only helps the ants capture prey , but is also an escape mechanism - it can catapult them into the air away from potential threats , Mr Wong said .  " The amount of force generated by that movement is very large , and it is intriguing how these ants evolve and utilise such a unique ability . he set up a makeshift laboratory in his bedroom , complete with field and lab equipment borrowed from other scientists . He also has a cupboard stocked with ant specimens , some of them soaked in ethanol for preservation .  " When I was young , I used to take other insects home , including grasshoppers and praying mantids , " said Mr Wong .  When he was 11 , praying mantids swarmed the balcony when he did not close a breeding tank properly .  On another occasion , a centipede that he rescued from school escaped from a container with holes into his parents ' bathroom . " I 've given my parents several scares over the years , but I am thankful that they 've grown accustomed to my insect idiosyncrasies now , " he said .  Recently , he discovered a new ant species while looking at the diversity of native ants , which have not been well-studied .  As he is not a full-time researcher and has little access to traditional sources of funding , he is hoping to raise money via More than $500 has been pledged to his project , titled Discovering The Ants Of Singapore , since it was listed last week .  He hopes to raise $3,000 by next month , and intends to use the money for scientific journal publication fees and to buy better equipment .  He notes that insects are not as well-loved as other animals , but hopes to draw more attention to them through his Instagram account , @antsofsingapore , where he posts close-up photographs of Singapore 's ants .  The need to be careful about money has spurred him to innovate . His close-up shots of dozens of different ants are not shot with state-of-the-art equipment , but achieved by aiming the camera on his iPhone through the eyepiece of the microscope . It is not always easy to get the right distance and angle between the phone and the microscope , he said .  Although the quality of his photographs does not comparewith those captured by a DSLR or an imaging station , the beauty of ants and interesting facts about their biology still shine through , Mr may look just like red or black dots , but , up close , you start to see a variety of unique body shapes and beautiful structures , which I 'm sure more people would appreciate if only they got the chance to see them . "  Audrey Tan  A version of this article appeared in the print edition of The Straits Times on February 26 , 2016 , with the headline ' Ant-man shares love for ants on Instagram ' . Print Edition Subscribe  Follow ST  The Straits Times  We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . Until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles . But a log-in is still required for our PDFs.