Singapore set to be a truly smart nation
http://www.mis-asia.com/tech/networking/singapore-set-to-be-a-truly-smart-nation/

singapore set to be a truly smart nation  safety , security and sustainability will be the key foundation pillars to ensure that singapore successfully realises its smart nation vision .  this was recently concluded at t ? v s ? d 's jubilee event conducted in conjunction with the company 's 150th anniversary and 10th year .  since the launch of the smart nation initiative in 2014 , singapore has made efforts to empower its citizens with technology .  introduction of new technologies bring about new challenges in safety , security and sustainability ; and hence focusing on these areas will make a difference to the smart city initiative .  " t ? v s ? d believes that new technologies can only bring improvements to the society , after we understand how it works and learn to manage the risks that come along with it . singapore smart nation vision is about harnessing technologies to improve the lives of people , " said prof. dr. -ing axel stepken , chairman of the board of management , t ? v s ? of smart products and gadgets is important as these devices form the first touch or contact for humans with the smart system , according to t ? v s ? d.  a nation should also pay attention to the functional safety and interoperability of the different components and systems .  t ? v s ? d emphasises that these products must be evaluated based on proven test methods and criteria , complying with relevant international or industry standards .  urban planners should also ensure security of the server , and think about the development and implementation of sustainable and comprehensive smart urban solutions .  " singapore is well positioned to realise its smart nation vision , building on a world class connectivity infrastructure and the strong calibre of its workforce , " said dirk schlesinger , chief digital officer , t ? v s ? d. " however , just like any digital transformation project at an enterprise , the challenge is to pursue and implement a holistic approach to connect things , data , process and people . safety , security and sustainability must be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @