PAP's good jobs = low paying jobs
http://theindependent.sg/paps-good-jobs-low-paying-jobs/

Hard to trust this type of leader because he misled the people by quoting statistics on only one new fabrication facility . PM Lee could not cite statistics on the general job market because he would have shot PAP in the foot .  But people got eyes and can see that foreigners are holding managerial and supervisory positions in the F and B sector while Singaporeans are working under them . Who got the good jobs ?  Even banks like Stanchart , 18% owned by taxpayers through Temasek , employs only 20% of Singaporeans in top management positions in its Singapore office .  Maybe it 's OK for PAP to continue concealing tons of embarrassing statistics from the people because most do n't want to know the facts and want to remain in a state of bliss . So easy for PAP to remain in power , forever .  Today , MEWR Minister Masagos not pai seh to announce " Our Tampines Hub will create 900 jobs " . More tax dollars then spent printing flyers which have been handed out to thousands for joy because these jobs are designed for retiree uncles and aunties and of course foreigners .  Retrenched PMETs can continue to focus on driving taxis for a second career , over qualified as they may be . Being a real estate agent is no longer an option because the market is now as silent as a cemetery .  Looking at PM Lee 's " good jobs " ( below ) created by foreigners , I think he meant created for foreigners .  Can a Singaporean family survive on such wages ? Is there a possibility of retiring before one reaches 80 or 85 ? Should Singaporeans continue to beg PAP for handouts ?  If you drive past City Square in JB , you can see a digital sign-board with this advert . " Security job in SG . S$1800 ... RM5400 per month ! ! ! " Now , who can survive S$1800 per month in SG but one can surely feed a family with RM5,400 in JB .  Many foreigners , including those from Malaysia , Philippines , India , China , Myanmar , because a big part of their income is not spent in SG . They depress the salary of Singaporeans and in the process , also take away jobs which Singaporeans can do . Not only the F&amp;B or retail jobs but also the PMET jobs . And on the high end job opportunities , foreigners are all at the top and they tend to hire their own kind also . So what 's left for Singaporeans ?  the 70% live within their means , do not spend more than they earn , plan their finance for the future . $1800 per month has its own kind of life style . if you earn $1800 per month and have 3 children , its your own fault .  if you think malaysian is better than singaporean because they can have a family with $1800 per month , ask yourself why are you still in singapore  Do you all really think they care ? In propaganda messages , yes , maybe . In reality , they are more concerned about their multi-million salaries and those earning or income of their inner $30 a month increment to the underprivileged and hardship case for the social welfare is already too much to give out .  Im wondering how this PM can say investor creat job when the investor or local companies itself employed their own peoples snd foreigners from their country leaving local jobless . Even how we upgrade the bottom line company still going for low cost . MOM have screwed up sporean ricebowl . They earned levies and company saved on cpf employing foreigners . We are on the losing side .  Our country been brought by our pioneer true blue Singaporeans and not by foreigners ... We created jobs for them ... If not they wont step on our shore ... No retirement age here ... Here you will worked till you die and for the so-called FT , worked till they have enough to return to their respective countries ...  Do n't really know how he worked out 1.5 job created for local , probably the foreigner took over your job and become your boss so one local job created for you , then your wife has 0.5 .  In this day and age , really can not be too choosy . Grow where you 're planted - upgrade yourself to stay relevant . Anyone can be successful if they worked hard and smart ( and with a touch of luck ) , regardless of their background .  They are creating jobs .. It 's up-to the people to step up and take them , do you expect your Government to fill out your job application for you .. Maybe they can go to the job interview and touch up your LinkedIn profile as well .  I think people are looking for government policy that offers them high paying management roles based solely on them not being foreigners .. without them putting in any effort .. Sounds a tad unrealistic .  Do n't wait for govt and help yourself . Drive taxi . If you 're hard-working you can make net income $250 a day or $7500 a month . The pap govt spends money like turning on water tap but still more thirsty than you and me .....  This Philip Ang us best to create jobs for the residents . He also wants to complain . No jobs , complain , got jobs , also complain . What is wrong with you oppies ? May be you should be sent to a refugee camp so that you can experience hunger and hardship , then you would be thankful to our government !  Jayraj Singh .. please do n't forget to mention AGO 's annual audit report on the govt 's performance . How bias can you be to miss the much much bigger multi million $$$ that 's gone to longkang due to their poor governance .. and not forgetting the $800,000+ that 's gone to the Bin Ctr ! Lol ..  After some proof reading , the headlines read as " Foreigners Create Good Tea Money For Government " . Good jobs ? ? Who has the better job than him who earns more than the States President taking charge of a little dot ? Lol  it is an understatement to mention that F&amp;B sector 's top management position belongs to the FT-Singkies or PRs only ! I believe us also in all market sectors ... and the more prominence of them are those from the SafffronGreenWhite country ! ! One come whole village come and these are the smartest of them all knowing how to beat the system control .... top n middle management position go to their own kind , supervisory level get to have a mix and the lowest position to the locals to make up the permitted quota ! ! ! This is the bare truth but local pure bred singkies got to grit their teeth and suffer it this sell out by the G ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Majullah Singapura ! !  he jus wants sg cz to b slaves wok n die til even 80yrs old so he can gain sick control by force tats happening in usa now ith llots of fts illegal n danggerous too its unsafe sg now with l ? ts of unrelated death tey say but seems all foul play n many big hidden agenda goin to b out soon when new president gets elected in usa n more shock could unfold to share the blame ... not the foreigners . .. they were offered jobs .. Singaporeans are lazy and feels entitled . . When i was recruiting .. Do n't show up for interviews or late .. after employed do n't turn up .. or job hop after a while .. job standard not great but expects alot in benefits and pay . Little bit not happy quit .. want more pay but do less work . Poor attitude . .. after decades of this .. what happens .... company either relocate or close . So bring new blood .. try new ideas ... foreigner brings different new ideas . Mb hope company can survive . Same Sg employee same old thing ... no new ideas ... foreigners .. new method .. otherwise send employees of overseas for training . . But then local HR Singaporean no indepth HR experience say do nt reimburse expense for sweater cos it was not snowing so winter allowance do n't apply .. Moreover it 's a perk already to send overseas . ( Typical Singaporean mgmt thinking ) so people do n't want upgrade .. got blame ... so people eat what you sow ... or go overseas apply for jobs and let them blame you for taking their jobs .. one thing for sure ... going far away to work away from your family you will work hard ... very hard ...