Why do we ignore the local processes that deliver global goals in ...
http://www.eco-business.com/opinion/why-do-we-ignore-the-local-processes-that-deliver-global-goals-in-urban-areas/

why do we ignore the local processes that deliver global goals in urban areas ?  international agencies must support local processes if we are to achieve ambitious global goals -- so benefits reach urban communities on the ground whose needs these goals are set up to meet .  a woman collects water from a tap installed as part of the asian development bank 's community water services and health programme in indonesia . to deliver on global goals , global agencies must respect local processes . image : flickr , cc by-nc-nd 2.0  share this story  the global discourse on development and all its goals has become almost entirely divorced from the local on-the-ground processes that deliver , or can deliver , these goals .  a recent blog by sheela patel notes how global funds are largely unaccountable to the people whose unmet needs they were set up to help address .  despite claims by international agencies to support participation , accountability and ( less often ) community development , in reality the billion or so people who live in informal work done by these agencies -- whether global funds or aid agencies , development banks or international ngos .  this not only negates their claims of support , it also means their initiatives miss out on the dynamism and capabilities of organisations and federations of slum/shack dwellers .  part of the problem lies in who speaks for these slum/shack dwellers and in so doing influences how work is prioritised and funded .  here , i want to explore how the way problems are perceived helps shut out the very processes that can develop -- and have developed -- solutions .  it 's obvious that how a problem is defined influences what are viewed as solutions . informal settlements can be seen as the problem -- swamping local government with needs and demands it can not meet , illegally occupying land ... or they can be seen as housing most of the low-paid workforce the city economy relies on .  the problem here is not the informal settlements but the failure of ( local and national ) government to produce better alternatives for their low-income population . un global discourse allows a wide range of groups or stakeholders to be represented . this has encouraged groups or coalitions to form , and press for more attention to their chosen agenda .  it 's very difficult to oppose louder demands for water or sanitation or child immunisation or protection against malaria . enormous numbers of people and institutions choose to focus on one thing , where success is marked by how often their focus area is mentioned or how much funding it is allocated .  so in discussions at the united nations on achieving the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) and now on the new urban agenda ( to be agreed at habitat iii in october 2016 ) , these groups self-organise to get recognition for ' their agenda ' whether for gender equality , awareness of the needs of disabled people , of infants , children , youth or older age groups , of migrants , indigenous groups , local communities , refugees , internally displaced persons -- or even ( occasionally ) the urban poor or slum dwellers .  these lists of those are relevant to them , are repeated endlessly .  or discussions may hone in on particular hazards -- indoor air pollution , ambient pollution , malaria , hiv/aids -- where each group seeks statistics to justify their chosen focus ( and often using exaggerated figures ) .  added to this are groups lobbying for the special needs of groups of countries -- small island states , landlocked states , least developed countries . of course , what is recommended has to be sustainable ( although with much confusion as to whether this is sustaining/keeping going some initiative or working within planetary boundaries ) . now everything has to be resilient and inclusive too .  more mores , more lists  meanwhile the documents to accommodate all these worthy un agendas ? intended to guide action ? become stuffed with adjectives that are repeated again and again ( inclusive , sustainable , sustained , safe , resilient , transformative ... ) and carry endless lists of ' stakeholders ' or ' partners ' . the current 23-page draft of the new urban agenda uses the word ' sustainable ' is judged legitimate can be ignored , lists expand .  amid efforts to get greater recognition of the particular needs of urban areas , there are groups insisting that every time ' city ' or ' urban ' is referenced , so too must ' human settlements ' or ' rural settlements ' be mentioned . as if ' rural development ' proponents include any commitment to urban development ( of course most do not ) .  local processes must be supported  but at least for most urban areas , the focus should be on the failure of urban governments to ensure provision for a long list of basic services ? ' water , sanitation , waste collection , health care , schools ... ' .  and one key reason for this failure is the lack of external support for the local processes that can or do deliver on the long lists of goals .  local and democratic participatory processes allow the long list of needs by a long list of groups to be addressed -- but in response to local needs , local groups and not the informal settlements but the failure of ( local and national ) government to produce better alternatives for their low-income population .  only by investing in local processes will we achieve the sdgs and the goals set out in the new urban agenda . and these processes must be accountable to their population , with measures to address the needs of all the different groups and while responding to local democratic pressures .  the various drafts of the new urban agenda fail to prioritise support for urban governments committed to democratic processes and for local civil society , especially those that have developed their own local processes of accountability and transparency .  sheela 's blog highlights how global funds and international agencies are only as effective as the intermediaries they fund on the ground . it is time they recognised the need to engage with , work with and support the organisations and federations of the very groups whose needs legitimise their existence .  and from here to consider where and how local funds can channel support to local processes direct -- and real partnerships between deliver the local and global goals .