The monk with a 'strange healing power': Om Swami's life through ...
http://www.thenewsminute.com/article/monk-strange-healing-power-om-swamis-life-through-eyes-his-devotees-49083

this is a book for believers . if you do n't have faith in god , avoid this . but if you are a devotee , this will be an eye-opener of a book .  to those who may have considered the young om swami just another new age monk in ochre robes , ismita tandon and swami vidyananda om unveil a religious leader who evokes great reverence . om swami renounced enormous wealth and a life of luxury to take to meditating 22 hours daily in harsh himalayan weather in search of divinity . when vidyananda- from karnataka- met om swami in haridwar , he was delighted he had finally found a guru he had been seeking for eight long years .  here was a simple , austere monk who presided over an equally simple ashram in a remote part of himachal pradesh , accepting no material donation from anyone . but there were numerous instances when he could accurately read people 's minds , foresee unexpected visitors and events , and even predict the problems with which people approached him . where needed " carried with a strange healing power that almost instantaneously granted relief to patients " , particularly the poor who sought him out from nearby villages where medical facilities were scarce and life was any way tough .  image source : harpercollins.co.in  in no time , vidyananda was convinced that om swami was truly a man of god . " i was no longer surprised by anything gurudev did or said . anything he would say would come to pass just as he had predicted it would . he could see anyone 's past or future . he could tell about a person just by hearing his name . " to any question vidyananda would pose , om swami had one answer : " nothing is impossible with the grace of mother divine . " vidyananda says there is n't a tantravidya or tantrasadhana that om swami does n't know .  award-winning poet and author ismita tandon was no believer when she came into contact , after a string of personal mishaps , with om swami . but her spiritual transformation was rapid . the monk 's uncanny . " from accurately telling the location of a mole on a person 's clothed body , to misdeeds that they had n't confessed - and even significant events of their past and future - nothing , it seemed , could remain hidden from ( om ) swami . "  so fascinated is vidyananda , himself deeply religious , by his guru and his hidden divine powers that one day he asks : " who are you , gurudev ? please tell me . " pat comes the answer : " i am a simple sadhu in a complex world . "  om swami is clearly much more than that . this is truly a fascinating book . " om swami as we know him " is sure to transform innumerable lives in the times to come .