US judge allows confessions by Venezuela first lady's nephews
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/world/us-judge-allows-confessions-by-venezuela-first-lady-s-nephews/3201714.html

us judge allows confessions by venezuela first lady 's nephews  a u.s. judge on wednesday declined to throw out the alleged confessions from two nephews of venezuela 's first lady , ruling they knew what they were doing when they spoke to u.s. agents after their arrest on narcotics charges .  posted 13 oct 2016 06:35  franqui francisco flores de freitas sits in federal court in manhattan , new york , december 17 , 2015 , in this courtroom sketch . reuters/jane rosenberg  new york : a u.s. judge on wednesday declined to throw out the alleged confessions from two nephews of venezuela 's first lady , ruling they knew what they were doing when they spoke to u.s. agents after their arrest on narcotics charges .  franqui francisco flores de freitas , 30 , and efrain antonio campo flores , 29 , are scheduled to go on trial next month in federal court in new york city on charges they conspired to import cocaine into the united states .  their statements to agents , as well as other material they prosecutors as key pieces of evidence .  lawyers for the two men , who are nephews of venezuelan president nicolas maduro 's wife , cilia flores , had argued they were in custody for hours before agents identified themselves and that they did not fully understand their u.s. right to remain silent .  in a written opinion , u.s. district judge paul crotty said the men were informed of their rights and had signed waivers of those rights before confessing to agents from the u.s. drug enforcement administration ( dea ) . campo flores even told agents he was an attorney , the judge said .  " there is no credible evidence that the dea agents used mental or physical coercion in eliciting defendants ' waiver or statements , " crotty wrote .  the judge also declined to suppress secretly made audio recordings of the two men , who are cousins . their lawyers argued the recordings were selectively made to exclude parts of conversations favourable to them , but the judge disagreed .  a lawyer for campo flores declined to comment on the ruling . reached for comment .  a spokesman for manhattan u.s. attorney preet bharara , whose office is handling the case , declined to comment .  the nephews ' case has been an embarrassment for maduro , who is facing a political and economic crisis in venezuela . flores in january called their arrest a " kidnapping . "  the nephews were arrested at a hotel in haiti in november 2015 and flown to the united states . they are fighting u.s. charges that they worked with others to try to send 800 kilograms of cocaine from venezuela to honduras for importation into the united states .  the case , which arose from a dea sting operation , is one of several u.s. investigations that have linked individuals connected to the venezuelan government to drug trafficking .  ( reporting by david ingram ; additional reporting by nate raymond ; editing by alan crosby )