Oil tops US$50 as traders ponder Opec accord, US stockpile data
http://www.businesstimes.com.sg/energy-commodities/oil-tops-us50-as-traders-ponder-opec-accord-us-stockpile-data

you are here  oil tops us$50 as traders ponder opec accord , us stockpile data  oil rose , closing above us$50 a barrel in new york as investors ponder whether opec will follow through with production cuts . futures extended gains after an industry report was said to show a us supply drop .  photo : afp  oct 19 , 2016 6:43 am  new york oil rose , closing above us$50 a barrel in new york as investors ponder whether opec will follow through with production cuts . futures extended gains after an industry report was said to show a us supply drop .  futures advanced 0.7 per cent . speculators have bolstered bullish bets since the opec accord was reached on sept 28 in algiers . fractures have emerged within the group that threaten to derail a final agreement on quotas , expected in vienna on nov 30 .  prices rose from the close after the american petroleum institute was said to report us stockpiles fell by 3.8 million barrels last week . the decline contrasted with analysts surveyed supplies rose .  oil is up about 13 per cent since the organization of petroleum exporting countries reached the deal to manage supply , and prices have closed above us$50 for six of the last eight sessions as investors await a november meeting where the group is due to implement the agreement .  the energy information administration will release its report on inventories wednesday .  " we 're waiting for new headlines , " said rob haworth , a senior investment strategist in seattle at us bank wealth management , which oversees us$133 billion of assets .  " maybe api , but for sure the eia data will be market moving . we 're looking for a rise in production and it will be interesting to see if production gains . "  west texas intermediate for november delivery advanced 35 us cents to settle at us$50.29 a barrel on the new york mercantile exchange . wti traded at us$50.77 at 5:01pm after the api report . total volume traded was 21 per cent below the 100-day average .  us stockpiles  brent for december settlement on the london-based ice futures europe exchange . the global benchmark crude closed at a us$1.06 premium to december wti 's closing price .  the energy information administration will probably report that us crude inventories rose 2.1 million barrels last week , a bloomberg survey showed . stockpiles of gasoline and distillate fuel declined , according to the analysts .  " there 's large speculative interest in the market , it 's almost faddish , " said john kilduff , a partner at again capital llc , a new york-based hedge fund that focuses on energy .  " they are giving credence to opec and expect that they will be able to pull something together when they meet next month . "  further negotiations  oil prices have risen the past three weeks despite brimming stockpiles . opec countries have agreed to limit production to a range of 32.5 million to 33 million barrels a day , though individual allocations have n't been decided ; an opec committee will meet later this month to try to resolve differences .  " the market has priced in the now they have to agree on a formula on nov 30 and then implement it . "  the oil market will rebalance in 2017 as an unprecedented drop in investment over the past two years starts affecting supply and opec hammers out a deal to cap production , said the chief executive officer of statoil asa , norway 's biggest crude producer .  " the fundamentals of the oil market are heading toward a rebalancing - we think that is going to happen at some point during 2017 , " eldar saetre said in a bloomberg television interview from london on tuesday .  " beyond that point , we expect an uptick in the oil price , simply reflecting the fact that investment in conventional oil production has been capped significantly . "