Dinner with TV may be a recipe for less healthy meals
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/health/dinner-with-tv-may-be-a-recipe-for-less-healthy-meals/3263636.html

dinner with tv may be a recipe for less healthy meals  ( reuters health ) - families that eat dinner with the tv on tend to eat less healthy food and to enjoy the meals less than families who leave the tv off , according to a recent u.s. study .  this was true even for families that were not paying attention to the tv and only had it on as background noise , the researchers write in the journal appetite .  " family meals are protective for many aspects of child health , " lead author amanda trofholz said by email , adding that parents can take this time to check in with children and teach them about setting limits on their diets .  " having the tv on during the family meal may reduce the opportunity for this connection between family members and blunt the protective effects of the meal , " said trofholz , a researcher at the university of minnesota , minneapolis .  to explore the link between tv watching during meals and risk factors for childhood obesity that included a child aged 6 to 12 .  the families were recruited from primary care clinics in minneapolis between 2012 and 2013 and were mostly from low-income and minority groups .  the families recorded two of their family meals using an ipad and reported to the research team what they had eaten and how much they had enjoyed it .  the study team assessed the health of the meals themselves , whether a tv was being used and the emotional atmosphere of the meal .  only one third of the families left the tv off during both recorded meals . about a quarter had the tv on for only one meal and 43 percent left the tv on during both meals .  of the families eating with the tv on , two thirds paid attention to the tv while the other third only had it on in the background .  families who ate with no tv playing or with the tv on during only one meal enjoyed their meals more than those that watched during both meals . this was true regardless of whether did n't watch tv during meals ate significantly healthier food than the others . families that had the tv on but did not pay attention also ate more healthy food than families that actively watched tv while eating .  families eating with the tv on also ate fast food for dinner significantly more often than those with tv-free meals .  children of tv-watching families were not more likely to be overweight or obese than children whose families did not watch tv during meals , however .  " a non-distracted meal environment , without the tv on , is an opportunity for children to enjoy eating , try novel foods and self-regulate eating when healthy options are provided , " said eileen fitzpatrick , an assistant professor at the sage colleges in troy , new york .  " having the tv on during dinner is a distraction which may lead to ' mindless eating ' including overeating without realizing it , " fitzpatrick , who was not involved in the study , said by email .  fitzpatrick added that advertisements on tv market unhealthy foods to children dinner .  families should try to view the family meal as a family event rather than just a necessity , trofholz said . " families who see the family meal as a time to connect with and enjoy their families may be more likely to turn off the tv , have a higher quality meal , and enjoy the meal more . "