Watch out for these fitness and weight loss scams in Singapore
http://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2016/11/08/watch-out-for-these-fitness-and-weight-loss-scams-in-singapore/

Watch out for these fitness and weight loss scams in Singapore  The best way to stay fit is still diet and exercise . Do n't waste your money on these fitness and weight loss scams .  Fitness fads come and go in Singapore , but one thing always remains : somewhere out there , somebody is looking to cash in on the latest one .  The number of ways to get fit has n't changed for all of human history . It 's always been diet and exercise , just like we did in Ancient Rome , when the Pyramids were being built , or when humans lived in caves .  In spite of that , there 's always new gimmick being marketed in Singapore promising fast weight loss .  Here are some fitness scams and rip-offs to watch for :  1 . Fad Routines  The most notorious fad routine ( that 's now been exposed as such ) is P90X . This is a 90 day diet and exercise regime that is extremely intense , and is guaranteed to confused ' your muscles by rotating the types of exercise .  Now P90X does work , but see if you can spot the deception : what happens to anyone 's body , if they diet and exercise for 90 days ? That 's right : they 'd lose weight .  All the talk about ' confusing ' muscles is just marketing spiel , and the creator of P90X mostly admitted it in a New York Times interview . When terms like P90X are used , it creates branding : the name is used to justify a higher price for coaching , as it 's a ' special ' method . In reality , it 's just the same as any intense workout programme .  So the next time you 're offered a higher priced package , and it involves a lot of diet and exercise , question if you should pay the premium . You 're probably doing the same thing as a regular workout package .  ( An exception to this are exercise methods meant for highly specialised purposes , such as for medical rehabilitation , ) .  2 . ' One Day Left ' Discounts at the Gym  One of the most common sales tactics at the gym is to pressure you with a limited time offer . After your free trial , the salesperson will sit you down and talk about the benefits of membership .  This often concludes with an eye-popping sum , but do n't worry : there 's a huge discount right now . It 's almost half price . The condition is , the sale is expiring today .  This is almost always a con-job . Anyone can arbitrarily pad their price by 50 per cent , and then put in a 50 per cent discount ( e.g. Instead of selling you the package for S$1,200 , I offer it at S$2,400 but with 50 per cent off ) .  The time limit is just to pressure you to sign up on the spot , as they know you likely wo n't come back after their aggressive tactics .  3 . ' Tested ' and ' Verified ' Supplements Can Be a Ripoff  The is fraught with issues , because for every respectable company there are dozen scams .  In 2014 , Raw Deal Inc ( a supplement producer ) demonstrated that even with government checks buyers are n't safe from rip-offs . Raw Deal Inc would add fillers to dilute their supplements . So while the ingredients and quantity were correct during government inspections , they would be diluted to make more product before being sold to consumers .  In 2013 , it was discovered that many supplement manufacturers in the United States have shady backgrounds . Some were involved in the creation of illegal drugs , like methamphetamine , before they started brewing supplements .  Think about that before forking out a lot of money for supplements . And throughout all this , we are still only assuming supplements work . It is difficult to test whether they fulfill their advertisements , as everyone 's body absorbs the supplements differently .  Overall it 's best to rely on your family doctor 's opinion , rather than trying to filter out the sales pitches for supplements .  4 . choice among fitness scammers . These people pretend to start out as being flabby or unfit , and then ' chronicle ' their journey to looking better . They then often sell services as fitness coaches , or recommend supplements or exercise gear .  But the increasing number of expos ? s suggests many of them may be frauds . The images used are often heavily edited , through tools such as Photoshop . Sometimes , the before and after images are even taken on the same day , and then edited to make them look different .  Not all Instagram scammers do this for money -- some just enjoy fame and attention . But when they start to plug products or gyms or services , look out . It might be a con-job .  5 . Multi-Level Marketing Recruitment Disguised as Fitness Clubs  You may have been approached to join ' free ' clubs , that promise to be a community to help all members lose weight . One company is well known for doing this in Singapore .  What you need to understand about they have products that are not . Often , the clubs are an attempt to recruit you to join a Multi-Level-Marketing ( MLM ) programme .  You will be asked to buy and then resell supplements , supposedly in a way that also makes you an income .  Do n't get pressured into buying or taking part . If you join the club , you will be hemmed in by dozens of people who try to persuade you to sign-up . You 're better off working out on your own .  About Us  The Online Citizen is Singapore 's longest-running independent online media platform . Our aim is to examine the issues that matter , or should matter , to Singaporeans and to reflect the diversity of life , of ideas and opinions , that is Singapore .  We believe that Singapore 's future is best served by having an informed and involved citizenry that has access to a wide range of sources of news and views and an open and vibrant environment in which to share and to debate ideas and opinions .