Did Modi silently visit Kashmir? Govts PR arm messes up big time
http://www.catchnews.com/india-news/did-modi-silently-visit-kashmir-govt-s-pr-arm-messes-up-big-time-1478608961.html

did you know that prime minister narendra modi was in jammu and kashmir on monday , 7 november ? and that he visited srinagar and ramban , and addressed public gatherings there ? you did n't know , did you ?  now go back to that newspaper you thought you had read enough to know about monday 's biggest developments . what ? no reports in your newspaper ? that 's okay . your newspaper is not trustworthy enough . trust only the government 's news and pr wing , the press information bureau .  if you logged on to pib 's website on 8 november , you might have been tricked into believing that the pm finally ended his self-imposed boycott of j&amp;k .  " english rendering of the text of pm 's remarks at the public gathering in chanderkote , ramban , in jammu and kashmir , " said one of the press releases on the homepage .  screenshot of the pib homepage with the link to pm modi 's speech highlighted .  clicking on the link took one to , 17:49 ist .  screenshot of pm modi 's speech on the pib , with the date ( 7 november 2016 ) highlighted .  the release was baffling because no other source corroborated modi 's visit to the state . no newspaper , no tv channel and no website had carried any related reports .  was it that modi visited j&amp;k and the entire media decided to boycott him , in solidarity with the protests against the government 's ban on ndtv ? maybe . but , if the social-media savvy pm did indeed visit the state , he would surely have tweeted about it . there were no tweets on the visit either , including from modi 's own twitter handle .  what really happened  what really happened was that the pib committed a major blooper by re-posting an old speech . modi had visited j&amp;k exactly a year ago , and the speech referred to in the pib release was from that visit .  pib realised its mistake later in the day and quietly removed the post from the homepage .  screenshot modi 's speech was removed .  it also changed the date on the transcript from 7 november 2016 , 17:49 ist , to 7 november 2015 17:49 ist .  assistant editor at catch , charu enjoys covering politics and uncovering politicians . of nine years in journalism , he spent six happily covering parliament and parliamentarians at lok sabha tv and the other three as news anchor at doordarshan news ...