Tips to Reduce the Calories in Delicious Indonesian Food
http://www.globalindonesianvoices.com/25439/tips-reduce-calories-delicious-indonesian-food/

here is a quick review of some favorite indonesian dishes , and how to make them healthier by adjusting the calories level .  indonesian signature dish , satay . ( photo source : fifth floor cooking )  review  jakarta , givnews.com -- imagine your favorite indonesian food . the delicious taste , the inviting smell , and the pretty sight . and , is it deep-fried ? or oily ? or is it usually cooked with coconut milk ? it does not take much imagination then to predict that your favorite indonesian food is associated with high calories .  in general , anything which is deep fried and/or cooked with high calories components such as coconut milk and sugar , will become high calories food . not to mention that indonesians usually eat with rice , which is also high in calories , especially if it is steamy white rice .  nonetheless , if we were to shift toward a healthier lifestyle , we need to take care of what goes into our mouth . it is often said that food which good for the tongue . after it is ingested , this food , many of them deep fried and " spiced " with monosodium glutamate ( msg ) , will become a totally different matter that is not good for your health . at often time , this food is also linked to the onset of sore throats and other illnesses .  however , it is almost impossible to avoid eating unhealthy food . and for this reason , it is advised that we reduce the negative side effects by replacing the unhealthy components with healthier elements . to start with , we can check the original recipe and nutritional facts , then decide which parts are good to be revised , so that the food can become healthier .  here is a quick review of some favorite indonesian dishes , and how to make them healthier by adjusting the calories level .  rendang  this caramelized beef signature dish contains 468 calories per cup , which is consisted of approximate 59 percent fat , 9 percent carbs and 40 percent protein . among the unhealthy ingredients is or water , though it may slightly change the taste of the dish .  nasi goreng  whilst fried rice may come in wide range of variation , they share similar combinations . one serving of fried rice with meat , shrimp and egg may consume up to 740 calories .  high calories ingredients of fried rice include the rice itself , in addition to cooking oil , egg and meat . to reduce the calories , you may use an alternative oil to cook , such as olive oil , and replace the meat component with more vegetables . whilst the healthier method might slightly change the taste , you could always think that it is an alternative and new type of fried rice .  instant noodle  it is not a secret that instant noodles are not very healthy food , but how unhealthy is it ? it turns out that a serving or 70 grams of a certain famous brand of instant noodle could feed you with 370 calories . this install noodle is also associated with high level of sodium .  not eating if you really have a craving for this delicious food , you can opt to prepare instant noodle with a little amount of the seasoning that has been pre-packaged in a sachet . one may also replace the noodle with a more organic alternative that does not originally come with the package . at first , this healthier choice might feel a little less tasty than the original , but it should be better for your body in the long term .  sate ayam  all in all , indonesia does have a delicious food which contains less calories , which require no revision of the menu . chicken satay , for example , only has 34 calories per skewer as it is mainly made of grilled chicken and peanut . to make it even healthier , you can steam or boil it instead .  besides the above examples , you can try to replace unhealthy ingredients with healthier counterparts by checking the recipe and experimenting with what might produce the most similar taste with the least calorie bomb combinations .