Apple needs you to upgrade your phone (pretty please): Gadfly ...
http://www.businesstimes.com.sg/technology/apple-needs-you-to-upgrade-your-phone-pretty-please-gadfly-editorial

you are here  apple is about to take the covers off a new ( sorta ) kind of iphone . it 's a still unexplained bit of sorcery that could only come from a company staring at its first ever down year for iphone sales .  photo : reuters  mar 17 , 2016 7:29 am  new york apple is about to take the covers off a new ( sorta ) kind of iphone . it 's a still unexplained bit of sorcery that could only come from a company staring at its first ever down year for iphone sales .  breaking from its typical september smartphone launch window , apple is holding an event on monday to show what is expected to be a new iphone that flashes way , way back - to 2013 . this new model , perhaps called the iphone se , is likely to have the same basic dimensions as apple 's two-and-half-year-old iphone 5s , but with updated computer chips and features to make the throwback feel fresh .  the big question is why this device essentially slides in as a replacement for the 5s , which apple continues to sell for a base price of us$450 - or us$200 less than the latest iphone 6s . the iphone throwback may even have the same price as the 5s .  it 's not likely to pad iphone sales by much . ubs expects the tweener phone could add about 12 million incremental iphone units to apple 's total this year . that 's roughly 5 per cent of total expected iphone sales for the fiscal year ending in september .  but the new/old phone does expose apple 's soft underbelly : too many iphone owners have n't been swayed by the latest and greatest ( and most expensive ) models and have stuck with their old devices . apple is smart to try every trick it can to budge the un-upgradeables , who have blown a hole in the company 's revenue this year .  about 18 months after the introduction of the larger-screen iphone 6 line and its successors , about 40 per cent of existing iphone owners have bought one of what was the most momentous and anticipated change to the iphone ever . the un-upgradeables are n't only in economically troubled countries , either . in the us , at least 55 per cent of iphones are models that are least two and half years old , according to january estimates from research firm kantar worldpanel .  ubs analyst steven milunovich recently conceded he was too optimistic in forecasting that 70 per cent of existing iphone owners would trade up to the 6 or 6s line by the end of apple 's fiscal year . the upgrade canyon has a huge impact on apple , which sells the majority of new iphones to people who already have one .  share of existing iphone owners who stuck with 2013 or earlier models is 60 per cent , and luring the un-upgradeables is critical to apple for three reasons .  one , the newest models have higher average price tags , helping apple gobble roughly 90 per cent of the profits in the smartphone hardware world even with just 15 per cent market share .  two , spurring people gives apple a stockpile of devices it can resell at manageable prices in places like india , where more than a billion people are just starting to catch the smartphone wave .  third , and most critically , selling new iphones is essential to apple 's effort to change the company 's complexion . more people with shiny new iphones mean more happy apple loyalists who give the company more chances to squeeze money from them in the form of more app downloads , apple music subscriptions and payments to store photos and files on icloud .  apple ceo tim cook has emphasized how important apple 's us$20 billion-a-year " services " business is to the company 's future . the strategy hinges on apple making sure the iphones its customers carry are as new and awesome as possible . if it ca n't persuade people to buy a brand new us$650 iphone 6s , maybe it can interest them - yes , you , the guy with the iphone 4 held together with duct tape - to pony up us$450 for a new iphone se .  the not because of money troubles or preference for a phone that is smaller than a slice of toast but because each year the new and improved smartphones are n't that much of an improvement .  what if we 've switched into a period when people hold on to their phones for longer ? at&amp;t executives have said they noticed this phenomenon . longer replacement cycles crushed companies that made personal computers , and more recently apple has acknowledged ipad owners are sticking with older versions for longer than the company expected . in part because of this trend , ipad sales have fallen for eight consecutive quarters .  the end of carrier smartphone subsidies in many countries has also exposed that the true price of a new iphone is n't us$200 but us$650 or more . at&amp;t has said more than two-thirds of its smartphone subscribers now are on contracts that make them pay full freight for a new phone . so apple is wisely experimenting with a hybrid iphone that has many of the hallmarks of a new edition , but without the painful price tag .  " it 's time for apple to change its increasingly untenable naming conventions for the iphone . please , please , please . the same rationale is behind apple 's iphone financing and trade-in programs , which let people spread out the payments for an upgraded phone .  jan dawson , chief analyst at industry research firm jackdaw research , said the iphone se also helps prop up iphone sales between now and when the next iphone model ( presumably iphone 7 ) will be introduced in september . a smaller screen iphone also has the added benefit of lower component costs , and therefore higher margins for apple .  this column does not necessarily reflect the opinnion of bloomberg lp and its owners .