PM Lee speaks out against playing race card in Bukit Batok by ...
http://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pm-lee-speaks-out-against-playing-race-card-bukit-batok-election

speaking to the media after a visit to bukit batok -- his first since 2009 -- mr lee acknowledged that in a multi-racial society , race would be an issue on people 's minds . " but i think when they vote for somebody , they should not be voting on the basis of race , but they should be voting on the basis of his ability to contribute , his sincerity , the heart , the colour of his heart and his commitment -- which is red -- regardless what race or religion he may belong to , " he said .  relatednews  apart from word going around the constituency - which minister for culture , community and youth grace fu also alluded to during the people 's action party 's ( pap ) rally on friday - mr lee said he has seen some comments online making the point about race in " a quite open way " . in particular , such comments were made in response to facebook postings by singapore democratic party ( sdp ) chief chee soon juan , mr lee pointed out . dr chee is up against pap long-time activist murali pillai in the bukit batok by-election .  he noted that it is not unheard of for racial sentiments to emerge and be exploited during election campaigns . he recalled how the race issue came up during the campaigning period for the 1984 general election , where pap candidate chandra das was up against sdp 's mr ling how doong in the chong boon single-member constituency ( smc ) . " they did n't say vote for ( mr ling ) , they did n't say the other chap was no good . they just asked , ' has that indian man come yet ? ' everybody knew what it meant , there was a special uhf signal there , so you say one thing , what you mean is another thing , " he added .  referring to mr murali 's performance in last year 's general election as part of the pap 's aljunied grc team , mr lee said that mr murali has shown that he was " able to connect with voters lebar division . " if paya lebar had been an smc , murali would be their mp by now . but it was a group representation constituency , so overall , we missed winning by a very narrow bit , " he added .  on friday , ms fu warned voters against those playing the race card by " asking chinese residents to vote for chinese only " . " we know some people have gone around saying this , " she said . she added that she hoped the sdp was not resorting to this and called on the opposition party to clarify its position .  speaking to reporters during the walkabout on saturday , mr murai acknowledged that racial issues are present in society . " but ultimately i am confident that if i can show to our bukit batok people that i 'm sincerely interested to solve their issues , i can overcome their language issue , the race issue together with my committed group of volunteers , " he said .  in response , dr chee - who was greeting residents in the constituency was " absolutely appalling " and called on the ruling party to " stop playing politics " . " if the pap wants to talk about racism , then i refer you back to some comments pap leaders have made about malays , " he said . regarding the comments made on his facebook page , dr chee said it was impossible to go through every comment posted by netizens but he called for parties to stay away from personal attacks -- be they on race or personal indiscretions -- during the campaign .  following his visit to bukit batok , mr lee said mr murali stands a " good chance " in the by-election . " from the reports from our activists , from what i can see and what the residents show , i think that they know murali , they recognise him , they know ' ah mu ' which is important , they remember him because he 's gone house visiting , and he 's done things for them from the last time when he was here as branch secretary , " he added .  , senior minister of state ( home affairs and national development ) desmond lee and parliamentary secretary low yen ling ( education and trade and industry ) were also present during the walkabout to lend their support to mr murali.