5 ways SMEs can benefit from video conferencing
http://www.mis-asia.com/blogs/blogs/5-ways-smes-can-benefit-from-video-conferencing/

5 ways smes can benefit from video conferencing  video conferencing defies distance and allows customers and employees to communicate anytime and from anywhere .  this vendor-written piece has been edited by executive networks media to eliminate product promotion , but readers should note it will likely favour the submitter 's approach .  a recent annual sme development survey conducted by dp information group found that 71 percent of small and medium enterprises ( smes ) in singapore are looking to improve their productivity in the next 12 months . as they face numerous challenges including rising costs of manpower , retaining talent as well as managing a sustainable business environment , business owners see technology as a key enabler in achieving greater success .  according to the survey , 68 percent of the respondents have already invested in technology with a view to increasing enterprise productivity . more significantly , 47 percent of the respondents are looking at productivity solutions and are reviewing automation tools while 35 percent of those respondents are looking at improved business solutions and practices .  according to enabler and tool to help increase productivity and address market challenges ; enabling them to become more efficient and competitive .  as such , collaboration technology tools , especially in video communications , support the increase in productivity and efficiency by enhancing business communications and contributing to building relationships over geographical boundaries . as video communications become more ubiquitous through popular applications including apple 's facetime , google 's hangout and skype , our modern workforce is becoming increasingly familiar with video conferencing in their daily social lives .  in fact , according to a bring your own device ( byod ) global survey , 52% of singaporeans surveyed expect to use their mobile devices in the workplace to check mail , conduct business correspondences and even meetings . being collaboration savvy , the younger generation entering the workforce readily embraces technology .  it is now up to business owners of smes to recognise the signs and implement collaboration tools for greater productivity gains . here are five ways smes can benefit from video conferencing :  1 ) being connected - increasing productivity  in this day no location boundaries . with the availability of technology , people are connected all the time . video conferencing defies distance and allows customers and employees to communicate anytime and from anywhere .  most smes use phone , e-mail , instant messaging ( im ) , or other workflow applications . however , 80% of communications consist of non-verbal , visual cues . the ability to understand , process , and collaborate over distance using the aforementioned messaging methods is , at best , halting , and at worst , severely impeded . wherever video is added to a meeting , participants are more likely to stay focused , because they can be seen as well as heard . expressions of satisfaction , concern , confusion and understanding , can be easily seen .