Ride now! Uber is ready to accept cap on fares fixed by Delhi ...
http://www.catchnews.com/business-news/ready-to-accept-cap-on-fares-fixed-by-government-in-delhi-uber-1463723753.html

ride now ! uber is ready to accept cap on fares fixed by delhi government  falling in line with chief minister arvind kejriwal 's stern warning against surge-pricing , taxi aggregator uber has informed delhi government that it is ready to cap its fares at rates fixed by the government in the national capital .  in a letter to transport commissioner , uber said that the per kilometre fare charged on its platform within delhi will not exceed the government prescribed fare in the capital .  " with prejudice to all our rights and contentions , we would like to humbly submit that the per kilometre fare charged on the uber platform within delhi will not exceed the government prescribed fare applicable in delhi , " gagan bhatia , company 's general manager ( north-uber india ) , said in a letter .  last month , app-based taxi operators - including the us-based taxi aggregators - came under attack from chief minister arvind kejriwal over surge-pricing during the second phase of odd-even scheme implemented from 15-30 april .  after kejriwal 's stern but after wrapping up of the road-rationing scheme , it had brought back surge-pricing in the capital .  " .... we remain committed towards providing a reliable and affordable transportation service to the people of delhi and thank you ( transport commissioner ) for your all efforts in this direction , " bhatia said .  during the second phase of odd-even scheme , kejriwal had received complaints of surge-pricing by app-based taxi operators . the delhi cm had then promised strict action against taxi companies that are charging passengers at more than government-prescribed rates .  according to prescribed rates , fares for all types of taxi services are rs 12.50 per km for economy radio taxis , rs 14 per km and rs 16 per km for non-ac &amp; ac black &amp; yellow top taxis respectively will be charged .  the notified fare of radio taxi cabs ( distinguished by an lcd board on roof top displaying " radio taxi " ) is rs 23 per km . additional night charges ( 25% of the fare ) are applicable between 11pm and 5am.