What's On in Singapore this weekend (May 20-22)
http://www.stuff.tv/sg/news/whats-in-singapore-weekend-may-20-22

genre-defying instrumental band mouse on the keys returns to singapore as part of the super japan festival .  dance  the famed butoh dance troupe sankai juku returns to singapore for the third time to perform meguri : teeming sea , tranquil land . taking reference from natural phenomena like the passage of time , the changing of seasons and the ebb and flow of water , eight butoh dancers will perform this visual poem against a backdrop inspired by fossilized paleozoic sea lilies . the show is part of esplanade 's first-ever super japanfestival . on until may 21 .  party  make the trek up emily hill for the launch of kult magazine 's 18th issue - observation .  this weekend 's edition of red baron sessions features these static lights , gabriel and jon soh .  three nights of japanese festival food and games await at the super japan matsuri . entry is free .  theater  pangdemonium presents the asian premiere of falling , the story of two parents doing their best to raise two teenage children , hua , adrian pang , andrew marko , neo swee lin and fiona lim . on until jun 5 .  just over three decades after its debut , emily of emerald hill gets a makeover as a musical . on until may 22 .  saturday , may 21  the month 's souljam party at refuge celebrates the birthday of the late great the notorious b.i.g .  tropical temple celebrates its second anniversary with an all-day outdoor fiesta .  market  shop for affordable arts and crafts at deck 's first ever marketplace event , open deck . on until may 21 .  food  one fullerton 's seafood restaurant and grill the pelican has a new a la carte brunch on saturdays , with an east coast us theme . think dishes like crab cakes with remoulade and bagels with eggs , smoked salmon and mentaiko cream cheese . there 's a free-flow prosecco option for $35 .  it 's your last chance to catch annie leibovitz 's women : new portraits at tanjong pagar railway station . on until may 22 .  between lensmen phillipe diversy and bob lee involving eight different 1960s singapore buildings with the architect 's names superimposed into each photo . on until the end of may .  exploration  this year 's pulau ubin day is actually going to last five weeks . pesta ubin will include walks , cycling and kayaking expeditions , exhibitions , talks , demonstrations and opportunities to experience kampong life . on until jun 12.