A professor who's as youthful as his students
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/education/a-professor-whos-as-youthful-as-his-students

he 's on list of best business professors in the world - and the only one under 30  if you walk into one of sam yam 's classes at the national university of singapore ( nus ) business school for the first time , you may think he is a student rather than the teacher .  not only is he just 27 , but he also often shows up for lectures dressed more casually than his students , at times even wearing shorts .  despite his youth , assistant professor yam , who specialises in business ethics , has authored and co- authored dozens of research papers and delivered presentations at universities all over the world .  since becoming a professor last year , he has already had six papers published in the best journals of his field , including the academy of management review and journal of applied psychology , said professor michael frese , head of the management and organisation department at nus business school .  " sam 's research has won two best paper awards in the academy of  just last month , prof yam was named in a list of the 40 best business professors under the age of 40 by poets and quants , a website that covers business school news . he was the only one under 30 in the list which included scholars from harvard , yale and oxford .  for argument 's sake  i like to argue with people . if i 'm not arguing , i like to watch people argue with each other .  assistant professor sam yam  born and raised in hong kong , prof yam did his university studies in the united states - his taxi-driver father had worked hard to send him there when he was just 16 .  he spent the next 10 years there , picking up degrees including a bachelor 's in psychology and a doctorate in organisational behaviour , both from the university of washington .  last june , he moved to singapore with his wife cindy , 27 , also from hong kong , and a former bank branch manager at jp morgan , to be nearer their child in less than two weeks .  what may prove surprising is that prof yam had no background in business before he began teaching at nus business school .  " i 've never taken a class in business , " he said with a laugh .  " my interests are really in religion , philosophy and politics . but as much as i like ethics , the philosophy of ethics is very abstract . i like something more applied , something i can see .  " business ethics seemed like a good way to make an impact , too . "  in a recent paper , he explored the effects of companies forcing employees to take part in corporate social responsibility ( csr ) practices , such as volunteering , donating to charity and helping at welfare groups . he found that a process called moral licensing may cause such practices to backfire .  " the idea is that when you force employees to be pro-social people , they gain a sense that they 're doing something really good , even though they did n't compensated for it , so they gain that sense of psychological entitlement and they feel freer to engage in unethical behaviour later on , " he explained .  the study , for which he is credited as the lead author , took nearly four years to finish .  his research achievements may be impressive , but his approachability and personal touch is what his students remember him for .  mr andy lua , 23 , a second-year business student who took his class on leadership and ethics , said he once sent him an e-mail on assessment criteria .  mr lua was pleasantly surprised when prof yam started having a conversation with him and attached a research paper for him to read , after noticing that he was interested in a particular topic .  said mr lua : " it was these little acts that make me feel that he is an exceptional educator . "  prof yam , in turn , feels that students here are easier to teach than those in the us . " us students tend to ask more questions . , but not as much as students from china and hong kong , " he said .  despite his prolific research output , he also finds time for hobbies such as basketball , video games and board games .  " i do n't really work long hours as people might assume . i work eight hours a day , i come to office around 7 and i leave by 3 or 4pm , " he said .  " i think my professional interests do affect my personal life . yes , i like to argue with people . if i 'm not arguing , i like to watch people argue with each other . "  if he had not gone into academia , he said he would have become a taxi driver like his father .  but he appears to be more successful at writing research papers than getting to be a taxi driver in hong kong . he said : " i even tried to apply for the licence in hong kong , but i failed . you have to score at least 96 per difficult . "  a version of this article appeared in the print edition of the straits times on may 30 , 2016 , with the headline ' a professor who 's as youthful as his students ' . print edition subscribe  follow st  the straits times  we have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles . but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.