Family the focus at fourth Car-Free Sunday event
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/family-the-focus-at-fourth-car-free-sunday-event

family the focus at fourth car-free sunday event  a drizzle during the fourth car-free sunday sg event yesterday could not keep picnickers , walkers , cyclists and even pet owners off streets that are usually the domain of vehicles .  luckily for 2,800 families taking part in the families for life walk , the skies cleared in time for the 7.30am flag-off by minister for social and family development tan chuan-jin .  in all , some 13,000 participants enjoyed the 1.5 km walk from the national gallery singapore to the empress lawn , where they were greeted with music , food and the chance to take part in a fitness workout .  the walk is part of efforts to promote resilient families , organised by non-profit organisation families for life to coincide with this month 's car-free event .  car-free sunday sg is a six-month pilot that turns part of the city into a pedestrian- and cyclist-friendly area every last sunday of the month until july , with each edition featuring a different line-up of activities .  at yesterday 's event walking trails , or watch a movie outdoors .  mr tan said having the families for life celebrations together with car-free sunday sg was a good idea , and his ministry would explore doing this more often in future .  " there is the novelty of getting to walk around in an area where you do n't normally ... i think it 's a good opportunity for families to get out , and bring the children out together , " he told reporters at the event .  senior staff nurse suzanne mak , 31 , who was at the event with nine other members of her immediate and extended family , believes it is a good way to maintain and strengthen familial ties .  mrs mak said : " at the end of the day , family will always have your back . "  a version of this article appeared in the print edition of the straits times on may 30 , 2016 , with the headline ' family the focus at fourth car-free sunday event ' . print edition subscribe  follow st  the subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles . but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.