New course certifies maids in eldercare
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/new-course-certifies-maids-in-eldercare

Maids will get certificate after completing 40-session course by medical professionals  A new eldercare course for maids was launched yesterday , adding to the suite of courses available here to train maids to care for their elderly charges .  Launched by the Foreign Domestic Worker Association for Social Support and Training ( Fast ) in association with training provider Care , the new course was announced by Fast president Seah Seng Choon yesterday at an education and health fair for maids .  Singapore is ageing rapidly , and quality eldercare is an urgent need , said Mr Seah . " It is with this in mind that Fast is launching an initiative to train domestic helpers who have a passion in looking after the elderly to become home-based caregiving specialists , " he said .  There are other eldercare courses for maids available , such as those offered by the Agency for Integrated Care . But these are usually just a few days long .  " The Specialist Certificate in Home-based Eldercare programme aims to be more rigorous , and will help employment in other areas back home , " said Fast executive director William Chew .  The course being piloted comprises 40 sessions of four hours each , and will take place every Sunday from next month . It costs about $12.50 a class , although Fast members can apply for subsidies .  The training will be conducted by medical professionals trained in gerontology from Care - a recruitment agency that specialises in training caregivers who help the elderly or people with disabilities .  Care managing director Satyaprakash Tiwari said participants will undergo a rigorous programme that will help them learn , among other things , how to dress wounds , feed the elderly and communicate with non-verbal cues , such as eye contact and head nods .  " There may sometimes be a communication barrier if different languages are spoken , and non-verbal communication cues are important to demonstrate that the caregiver is listening , " said Mr Tiwari .  Ms Carene Chin , managing director of employment agency Homekeeper , said such courses can help maids gain new skills and increase their competencies , which who goes by one name , believes the course could help her take better care of her employer 's 98-year-old father . Said Ms Yumiarsih , who has been working for the same employer for 13 years : " I learnt to care for Ah Gong by myself , but I hope to learn more about other things which I 'm sometimes confused about , like how to help him move . "  Filipina maid Rizalia Quilicol , 35 , hopes to take the course as she is keen on helping the elderly . For the past four months , she has been spending her days off volunteering at the Windsor Nursing Home .  " I want to increase my knowledge and learn more about the elderly , and with a certificate , maybe I can work in a nursing centre next time . "  Follow ST  The Straits Times  We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . Until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles . But a log-in @ @ @ @ @ @