Startup Digest: BookDoc, MaGIC SE, Kakitangan.com
http://www.dealstreetasia.com/stories/42564-42564/

bookdoc entered into a memorandum of understanding with town health 's subsidiary , one pass , for strategic collaboration to widen public access to health , protection and lifestyle services .  town health is a hong kong stock exchange-listed entity , while one pass is an online social platform prioritising health and wellness .  founder and chief executive officer of bookdoc , chevy beh , said although bookdoc was still relatively new to the hong kong market , the team has been consistently building up the network of reputable healthcare professionals on our platform through proper registration , as well as added verifications with the medical council .  " this extra mile of validation effort is necessary to ensure accurate information about the doctors reaches the public , " beh said , while noting the negative feedbacks raised by healthcare professionals over false claims on proper registration when consent had actually not been given .  " trust and quality are the hallmarks of the healthcare industry , which we will not compromise . good business ethics are essential for all who are involved .  magic se reveals legal handbook for social enterprises  the handbook , called legal compass for social enterprises , aims to further enhance social entrepreneurs with knowledge on the necessary governance requirements , structure options and other key operations related matters .  while magic se is working with policy makers and the government to affect systemic changes , social entrepreneurs must familiarize themselves and comply with existing legal framework for establishing and running a social enterprise as well as working with specific groups of people such as the underserved communities , people with disabilities and refugees , the agency said in a statement .  the launch of the legal compass is in line with the three-year plan outlined in the malaysian social enterprise blueprint 2015-2018 , which published by magic se and launched in 2015 .  kakitangan.com launches online payroll system for smes  kakitangan.com , an emerging online human resources ( hr ) platform in malaysia has launched its online payroll system for small and medium enterprises ( smes ) , aimed at improving efficiency via automating steps in payroll processing and making payroll data bhd , the developer and owner of kakitangan , said the system is integrated with employee database that runs on kakitangan hr platform . kakitangan is founded by effon khoo .  the payroll module is accessible via any desktop web browser , and includes features like automatic calculations of payments for employees provident fund ( epf ) , social security organization ( socso ) and lembaga hasil dalam negeri ( lhdn ) .  the payroll system also introduces electronic payslip distribution to reduce administrative efforts in printing and distributing paper slips .  dealstreetasia is a one-stop source for the generally opaque dealscape across asia . our team of reporters track deals , with a focus on investments , private equity , venture capital and m&amp;as across this region , and bring it to your inbox every day .