Turamdih mine tragedy: CNDP demands a moratorium on ...
http://www.catchnews.com/social-sector/turamdih-mine-accident-cndp-demands-a-moratorium-on-expanding-uranium-mines-in-jharkhand-1464603748.html

following the death of three miners in the turamdih uranium mine in jharkhand on 28 may , the coalition for nuclear disarmament and peace ( cndp ) has accused the uranium corporation of india limited ( ucil ) for flouting safety measures and putting the lives of workers at risk .  three workers lost their lives and nine were injured in a major accident at the turamdih uranium mine near jadugoda in jharkhand on 28 may .  criticising the ucil for functioning under non-transparency and unaccountability , the cndp has demanded an independent probe into the accident as well as compensation for the deceased and the injured .  " we support the demand of the workers and the local community that an independent probe into the accident must be initiated , and the deceased and injured must be immediately and duly compensated , " the cndp said in a statement .  according to the cndp , the local community and the larger civil society has been raising voices against the safety procedures in ucil for decades , claiming the company has been comprising work in brazen violation of standard norms .  " the criminal negligence and contempt for the surrounding population , which is mostly adivasi and poor , is shocking . toxic and radioactive waste is left in open tailing dams and uranium ore is transported in open vehicles . a number of peer-reviewed studies have shown high incidence of radiation-borne diseases in the area . india 's present nuclear regulator , the atomic energy regulatory board(aerb) is entirely unequipped and ineffective owing to its non-independence , " the cndp statement read .  the cndp has also demanded that the government must put a moratorium on expanding the uranium mines and initiate an independent enquiry into safety and radiation affects in jharkhand , involving environmental experts , labour unions and the civil society .