Singapore leaders congratulate incoming Philippine President Duterte
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/singapore-leaders/2829490.html

singapore : president tony tan keng yam and prime minister lee hsien loong have sent letters to incoming philippine president rodrigo duterte congratulating him on his election win , singapore 's ministry of foreign affairs said in a media release on monday ( may 30 ) .  in his letter to mr duterte , president tan wrote that singapore and the philippines are " old friends with strong ties " . " our countries cooperate closely in asean and internationally , including at the united nations , to promote peace , stability and prosperity , " dr tan said .  dr tan recalled a state visit to the philippines in april 2014 , where mrs tan and himself were impressed by the philippines ' economic progress , as well as the resilience of tacloban residents as they worked to rebuild their hometowns in the wake of typhoon haiyan .  " i am confident that you will lead the philippines economy to greater heights , " dr tan wrote . he also extended an invitation to mr duterte to visit singapore .  strong mandate letter , pm lee noted the landslide victory for mr duterte : " the strong mandate reflects the trust that your fellow filipinos have in your leadership and vision for the philippines . "  mr lee also said both countries share " close ties spanning many sectors , including trade and investment , culture and people-to-people exchanges " .  " our bilateral relationship will reach a milestone in 2019 , when we celebrate 50 years of diplomatic ties , " said mr lee , adding that as fellow founding members of the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , both countries work together to promote regional peace and prosperity .  he said singapore looks forward to the philippines ' chairmanship of asean in 2017 , which is also the 50th anniversary of the founding of the grouping . " i am confident that we will be able to foster closer asean integration amid a complex and fast-changing global landscape , " added mr lee .  " i wish you good health and success in your new position , and look forward to working with you , " mr lee added .