Women urged to not overlook Pap smears, HPV vaccinations
http://www.todayonline.com/singapore/women-urged-not-overlook-pap-smears-hpv-vaccinations

singapore -- when 35-year-old charlene loh first felt a lump just below her abdomen shortly after delivering her first-born , she dismissed it as a postnatal quirk .  months later , the symptoms -- ? irregular menses , frequent urination , a bloated stomach and a lump that seemed to have increased in size -- became too obvious to ignore .  diagnosed with early stage ovarian cancer in 2014 when her son was only 15 months old , mdm loh recounted the shock and fear she had felt at the time of her diagnosis .  by then , the 22cm tumour had taken over her entire left ovary , which was surgically removed as part of her cancer treatment . her right ovary and uterus were spared as she wished to have more children .  " i never thought it would happen to me . the word ' cancer ' is frightening enough but what made me even more worried was my child who is still so young . i was so afraid i was going to die . fortunately , my husband , " said mdm loh , an online baby clothing store owner .  mdm loh 's brush with ovarian cancer is no longer an uncommon phenomenon here . local cancer statistics show that an increasing number of women are grappling with gynaecological cancers , which are cancers that affect a woman 's reproductive organs .  between 2010 and 2014 , there were 1,731 new cases of ovarian cancer , a figure that has increased two-thirds from the 1,054 new cases between 1998 and 2002 , according to figures from the singapore cancer registry .  over the same period , the number of new uterine cancer cases has more than doubled from 907 to more than 2,000 between 2010 and 2014 .  obesity , diabetes driving cancer rates up  besides typical risk factors such as age and family history , doctors told today the higher incidence of ovarian and uterine cancers here could be partly due to rising obesity and diabetes rates .  affecting about 11 per cent of singapore adults , obesity is responsible for an estimated half a million cancers a year worldwide , 2014 . it also suggested that cancers are more problematic for women than men due to obesity-related cancers driven by the female hormone oestrogen .  excess fat tissue increases the production of oestrogen , which can stimulate certain cancers in women including ovarian and uterine cancers , said dr wong seng weng , medical director at the cancer centre , a subsidiary of singapore medical group .  at the same time , excess body weight also drives the production of insulin , a hormone that controls blood sugar levels . when in excess , insulin promotes the growth of cells in the body , including cancerous ones , said dr wong . higher animal-fat content in diets and smoking have also been found to be linked to a higher cancer risk , he added .  another notable risk factor for these gynaecological cancers are women having fewer or no children , or having children at a later age .  " childbirth is associated with a lower risk of ovarian and uterine cancer . with the decline in fertility rate in singapore over the years , i suspect said dr wong .  the most preventable gynaecological cancer  but not all gynaecological cancers are on the uptrend . cervical cancer rates have been on a steady decline , falling from fifth to the 10th most common women 's cancer in the past decade .  dr timothy lim , chairman of singa ? pore cancer society 's women 's gynaecological cancer awareness campaign 2016 , said this is likely due to an increased awareness of screening for the disease via pap smear as well as the recent availability of a test to screen for the human papilloma ? virus ( hpv ) , improving the accuracy of cervical cancer screening . high-risk hpv types are the cause for 99 per cent of all cervical cancers .  the society 's latest campaign aims to raise awareness of gynaecological cancers . it encourages girls and young women between the ages of nine and 26 to get a hpv vaccination , as well as a pap smear screening at least once every three years once they cross the age of 25 .  about 45 abnormal results , some suggesting pap smear screenings that the singapore cancer society provided at its multi-service centre from january to april this year .  " cervical cancer remains the most preventable among the three gynaecological cancers , " said dr lim , who is also head of the department of gynaecological oncology at kk women 's and children 's hospital .  " furthermore , the hpv vaccine might also lead to a further decline of cervical cancer in the future , but it would require a good uptake of the vaccine among the young to achieve herd immunity . "  according to him , the availability of a standard screening test for cervical cancer means that the disease is typically detected in the early stages , when survival rates are better . ? between 2010 and 2014 , more than two-thirds of cervical cancer cases were diagnosed at stage 1 and 2 .  ovarian cancer the deadliest  by contrast , ovarian cancer is the most difficult to detect or cure among the trio of gynaecological cancers as it rarely has early symptoms , said dr lim . with no proven the general population at the moment , most patients discover the disease only when symptoms show .  a significant proportion of ovarian cases in singapore is of a type -- known as clear cell carcinoma -- that tends to be resistant to chemotherapy .  they make up about 15 per cent of ovarian cases here , compared to the 5 to 10 per cent of cases in western populations , said dr elaine lim , senior consultant medical oncologist at the national cancer centre singapore . the centre is conducting ? research to better understand the cancer and is looking for more ? effective treatments through clinical trials .  while there is no proven method to completely prevent ovarian or uterine cancer , measures such as taking oral contraceptive pills , having more children early and breast feeding , as well as maintaining a healthy weight through a low-fat diet and exercise , may help to lower risks , said dr lim .  six months after completing chemo ? therapy treatment , mdm loh successfully conceived and delivered her second child -- a baby girl -- two continues to go for follow-up checkups .  " i consider my little girl a miracle baby . when i was first diagnosed , i thought i could no longer have more children and felt sorry my son could not have any siblings . but i 'm so blessed my doctor was able to help me ? retain my fertility and i was able to grow a healthy baby in my womb , " she said .  mdm loh advised women to be vigilant about their health , and said a strong and positive mindset helps when navigating the cancer journey .  " i now truly appreciate my life , as well as my family and friends , after the hardship , " she said .  from now till july 31 , the singapore cancer society is joining hands with 160 general practitioner clinics across the island to provide free pap smear screening for cervical cancer . it is available to all female singaporeans and permanent residents aged between 25 and 69 who have ever had sex and have not had a pap smear in the last three the society 's multi-service centre in bishan . for more information , visit **33;157;toolong