saahasam swaasaga saagipo (SSS) Official Trailer - Naga ...
http://www.galaxyreporter.com/2016/06/saahasam-swaasaga-saagipo-sss-trailer-naga-chaitanya-gautam-vasudev-menon.html

saahasam swaasaga saagipo trailer , saahasam swaasaga saagipo theatrical trailer , saahasam swaasaga saagipo official trailer , sss trailer -- naga chaitanya : watch the latest official theatrical trailer of naga chaitanya 's and manjima mohan 's new telugu movie saahasam swaasaga saagipo . the important characters of the movie are played by naga chaitanya akkineni , manjima mohan , baba sehgal , sathish krishnan , ajay gollapudi , satya siva. saahasam swaasaga saagipo is written and directed by gautam menon , the well known director in south film industry . watch and enjoy the latest trailer released by the movie unit here in the youtube link provided below .  saahasam swaasaga saagipo trailer  watch : saahasam swaasaga saagipo official trailer -- naga chaitanya  music for this telugu romantic thriller is composed by ar rahman . cinematography is handled by dan macarthur and edited by anthony . movie is produced by miryala ravinder reddy under the production company of dwaraka creations . movie is all set to release on july 15 , 2016 . audio of the movie will be released on june 17 few dialogues by naga chaitanya . heroine manjima mohan and baba sehgal are seen in few scenes . watch the trailer here below .  trailer of saahasam swaasaga saagipo released . watch here in youtube  saahasam swaasaga saagipo is a bilingual movie made simultaneously in telugu &amp; tamil . achcham yenbadhu madamaiyada is the tamil version , ft . simbu / silambarasan &amp; manjima mohan . naga chaitanya and gautam menon already worked together for ye maaya chesaaave which was a big hit in chaithu 's career . now again they came back with a thriller called sahasam swasaga saagipo ( sss ) . check out the trailer here below and share if possible .  venkatesh is the co-founder and planning head of galaxy reporter . he is a digital entrepreneur and loves reading and writing about current affairs , startups , business and many more . he lives in hyderabad , telangana and likes to do adventurous things in life .