Akhlaq lynching: Adityanath smells blood after report says meat was ...
http://www.catchnews.com/politics-news/akhlaq-lynching-adityanath-smells-blood-after-report-says-meat-was-beef-1464796970.html

and while this report does not affect the ongoing trial , in which the chargesheet has already been filed and the son of a bjp leader is among the prime accused , it has begun to stir up politics , less than a year before the state elections .  it may be worthwhile to remember that the initial report about the meat samples had found them to be belonging to a ' goat or its progeny ' . a vetenarary officer , in his report just a few days after the incident , on 28 september 2015 , had said : " prima facie , it seems that meat found in dadri lynching victim 's house belongs to goat progeny . "  politically-motivated questions  on wednesday , the chief minister of up , akhilesh yadav questioned the authenticity of the latest lab report from the mathura forensics lab .  " where was the sample sent , who received it ? there was nothing objectionable in his house . all eyes are on this matter . everyone wants that the victim 's family to " yadav told reporters in lucknow .  he added that after this incident : " there was a debate in the world regarding what to eat and speak . i think one should not get involved in such matters . "  on the other hand , bjp mp yogi adityanath demanded an fir against akhlaq 's family for slaughtering a cow . interestingly , an outfit related to adityanath had actually offered to distribute arms to hindus in the aftermath of the incident .  adityanath made two other demands from the up government . " the innocent hindus arrested in the matter should be immediately released , and the state government should withdraw all facilities given to akhlaq 's family , " he said .  akhlaq 's family moved into an air force base in new delhi a few days after the incident , are still living there . the family was given rs 45 lakh in compensation , and a flat in greater noida .  his younger son danish , who was injured in the mob violence , has also been promised a job as for what ?  a member of akhlaq 's family , who was asked to react on the latest developments , said : " let them file an fir against us , as they 're bragging . on what basis will they lodge an fir ? they got these meat samples from the street . these samples were never taken from our house . we will not let these people use us as a political instrument . "  the significance  the up assembly elections will be the bjp 's biggest poll battle after bihar , which it lost . the party will obviously be looking to consolidate hindu votes , and this forensic lab report is likely to provide it with a lot of thrust , especially through hardliners like adityanath .  other parties in fray for up 2017 may have to deal with this report more carefully - by defending everyone 's right to eat and live however they want , just as yadav said on wednesday , but sympathising with the emotions with which hindu voters may be looking at this issue .