IIT Delhi to merge technology and aesthetics with new Department ...
http://www.catchnews.com/education-news/iit-delhi-to-merge-technology-and-aesthetics-with-new-department-of-design-1468594654.html

IIT Delhi to merge technology and aesthetics with new Department of Design  With an aim to merge product design and technology , the Indian Institue of Technology ( IIT ) Delhi is mulling to introduce a new Department of Design ( DoD ) from the next academic year .  " Product designing has become an important aspect for engineers today and can not be ignored , " said Professor V Ramagopal Rao , Director , IIT Delhi .  Currently , the institute faculty members are brainstorming and ironing out the details of this brand new department . According to information , the Department of Design will offer both bachelors and masters courses . The overall batch intake is expected to be around 300 with a total of 30 faculty members . " We may also contemplate giving dual degrees in engineering and design , " said the institute 's director .  Speaking on existing design schools such as National Institute of Design and Srishti School of Art Design and Technology , Professor M Balakrishnan , Deputy Director ( Strategy &amp; Planning ) at isolation and is not backed up by technology . Students need to have an ecosystem to create products . Through this new department , we hope to create a collaboration between engineering and design students . "  Currently , IIT Guwahati has a Department of Design while IIT Bombay has an Industrial Design Centre . IIT Guwahati admits students on the basis of JEE scores . However , IIT Delhi is planning to have a separate entrance test with different eligibility criteria .  Pointing towards a shortage of funds faced by IITs , Rao said , " The biggest challenge of IITs are funds . IITs recieve about Rs 450 crores . Infrastructure is a problem . Hiring foreign faculty is not possible . "  " The dropout rate is quite high in MTech courses . About one-third of the class drops out by the second year after receiving offers from places like ISRO , DRDO , and public-sector firms , " he further added .  To tackle the issue of funds , MHRD has announced Higher Education Financing Agency ( HEFA ) with an initial capital @ @ @ @ @