State flag flypast to be staged along Southern coast skyline for first ...
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/state-flag-flypast-to-be-staged-along-southern-coast-skyline-for-first-time-at-ndp

SINGAPORE - When the opening chords of the national anthem are struck at this year 's National Day Parade , audiences can expect to see the state flag soar past the National Stadium before making its way across the skyline of the city 's southern coast , from the domes of Gardens by the Bay to the three towers of Marina Bay Sands .  This is the first time that the state flag flypast will be taking this route - and those who are watching the parade at home will also be able to see the breathtaking vistas during the flypast , which will be captured on screen .  Preparations for the flypast involved a team of about 300 active and operationally ready national servicemen in the lead-up to the NDP . Even the task of rolling up the flag - which measure 27m by 18m , is a mammoth one that takes 25 people about two hours to complete .  While only one flag will be seen during the actual flypast , back-ups are prepared in case of damage , with rolled flags Sembawang Air Base .  The task of rigging the flag to the helicopter is also a tricky one . Ballasts , cable slings and a release rope are first attached to the flag . The flag weighs a whopping 1,247kg after it has been rigged , with close co-ordination required to ensure that the rolled flag unfurls fully and remains in good condition when the CH-47D Chinook helicopter carrying the flag leaves for the flypast from the air base .  Lieutenant Colonel Liao Ming Hao , the 35-year-old pilot of the Chinook helicopter , said that one of the key challenges is the level of precision that is required .  " Having to arrive there within seconds of the stipulated time means that throughout the route , I need my flight crew to constantly advise me whether I 'm early or late . "  This is made even more difficult by the fact that the pilot is unable to see the flag , and thus reliant on instructions from the aircrew specialist about when to fly faster or maintain the speed .  As the aircrew specialist to monitor the flag and make sure that it has been properly attached to the helicopter .  " Before the flag is actually picked up ... my heart beats very fast because at the end of the day , it is still our national flag , " he told reporters at a media event last week ( July 9 ) , outlining how pains are taken to prevent damage to the flag at every stage of the process .  " When we pick it up and the flag unfurls , the sense of pride and honour ... is very hard to explain in words . "  Subscribe now and choose from eight amazing gifts ! Plus , stand to win a trip to anywhere in the world or a luxurious stay at Resorts World Sentosa ! Find out more at bit.ly/STsuboffer  Follow ST  The Straits Times  We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . Until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles . But a log-in is still required @ @ @