Asean Economic Community: What are the advantages and ...
http://www.ibtimes.co.in/asean-economic-community-what-are-advantages-challenges-new-regional-bloc-656206

Asean Economic Community : What are the advantages and challenges of the new regional bloc ?  The Asean Economic Community , after ten years of hiatus , materialised on Sunday at the Kuala Lumpur summit , where the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( Asean ) signed a historic declaration .  Myanmar , Philippines , Singapore , Thailand , Indonesia , Malaysia and Vietnam , Brunei , Cambodia , and Laos have come together to form a strong socio-economic community that will further connect its 625 million people as well as individual economies , which generate a combined output of $2.6 trillion .  Before the AEC comes into full effect by the end of the year , here is a basic breakdown of the main advantages and the challenges the new bloc may face .  Advantages :  Free Trade Area can be a reality for ASEAN nations :  " Asean countries are highly integrated , even more than the SAARC nations , " Srikanth Kondapalli , professor , Centre for East Asian Studies at the School of International Studies of new bloc will further help in simplifying trade , removing tariffs on goods and services to create free movement across borders , and will also help in expanding investments .  " In practice , we have virtually eliminated tariff barriers between us . Now we have to assure freer movements and removal of barriers that hinder growth and investment , " Malaysia 's prime minister Najib Razak said while signing the 2015 Kuala Lumpur Declaration on Establishment of the Asean Economic Community .  Infrastructure development and GDP growth :  One of the biggest advantages of the AEC to the member nations will be the development and implementation of infrastructure projects , especially in setting up energy pipelines and fibre-optics across the region , professor Kondapalli pointed out .  The member nations ' transport infrastructure is also likely to be connected .  The economic community will also help nearly double Asean 's combined GDP from US$2.6 trillion to US$4.7 trillion by 2020 , the Malaysian PM said , according to Reuters .  By 2030 , the Asean bloc may also well become the fourth-largest economy in terrorism has become a reality in the light of recent events , including the Paris attacks and the downing of a Russian passenger plane , a collective response to security issues will help Asean nations thwart such attacks in the region .  While there is no pan-regional terror group threatening security , there have been instances of isolated terrorism in the south east Asian countries in the recent past , especially with the Abu Sayyaf group still working actively in Philippines and the recent bombing in Bangkok .  " The ASEAN nations have taken measures to address non-traditional security challenges , such as piracy , drug trafficiking and illegal immigration . They have to implement strong measures to combat terrorism as well , " the professor said .  Challenges :  South China Sea dispute : One of the the most sticky points for the Asean countries is the ongoing South China Sea dispute .  While Malaysia , Vietnam and Phillipines have contested China 's claims over islands in the region , other Asean nations such as Singapore and Myanmar have taken a different stand , professor the AEC , if the dispute becomes extremely heated in the future , it may be a cause of concern for the Asean countries , " he added .  Economic Divide : Another stumbling blcok could be the glaring economic divide between the lesser developed Vietnam , Cambodia , Laos and Myanmar and the richer Singapore , Malaysia , Indonesia , Brunei , Thailand and the Philippines .  The lopsided growth of infrastructure in these countries could be a challenge in implementing projects , and corruption may also play spoilsport .  No Asean identity : Singapore 's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong correctly pointed out that one of the constraints was that the nations do not have a collective identity needed to take the AEC forward .  " One of the constraints on the governments , and one of the reasons Asean finds it difficult to make progress together is because there is not a very strong sense of Asean identity . It 's really a Singaporean identity , or Malaysian or Indonesian . So that 's the first priority , " Lee was quoted saying by the European Union ?  The community of Asean nations will be bigger than the European Union in terms of population , but it still has a long way to go to catch up to the economic output of the latter .  Even intra-regional trade among member countries stands at 24 per cent of Asean 's total global trade over the last decade , compared to 60 per cent in the European Union , according to The Associated Press .  Borderless travel may also not be a near reality for Asean .  " While the EU has the Schenghen visa that allows for paper-less travel across borders , Asean has not gone that far yet . While it may want to ease travel across nations , it may not be at the same level as the EU 's , " the professor said .