Murder of a homosexual rocks capital, police widen investigation
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/murder-of-a-homosexual-rocks-capital-police-widen-investigation/1/529187.html

murder of a homosexual rocks capital , police widen investigation  the police have widened the scope of the investigation after initial medical observation confirmed that the victim , who was smothered to death in his safdarjung enclave house on wednesday , had same sex partners .  gay sex may be at the centre of the murder of a senior it executive whose seminaked body was discovered in his south delhi residence last week , investigators have said . condoms were found on the floor of the victim 's room . the police have widened the scope of the investigation after initial medical observation confirmed that the victim , who was smothered to death in his safdarjung enclave house on wednesday , had same sex partners .  " the motive could be refusal to have unnatural sex with one of his partners . we 're also looking at a possible gay hate crime angle . someone may have had a problem with his lifestyle and murdered him in a fit of rage , " a senior delhi police officer told mail today .  " unnatural sex . we have also recovered condoms from the scene of crime . also , the body was found in a seminaked state when cops reached the spot , " a senior police official of south district , who is investigating the case , told mail today .  according to sources in the police , the victim 's roommate , who also worked at the same office , has also hinted that the same sex angle could be the reason for the murder . " he said he used to be outside the house most of the day due to office , while the victim used to work from home . he said he had no idea who used to visit the house to meet the victim . a noidabased company had given the option to the victim to work from home . the roommate also said the victim was friendly and used to help him with office work as he was his junior , " sources said .  the police 's theory is also supported by the fact that there was no forceful entry into the house the engineer and walked away . the door locks are not broken and no sign of forceful entry has been detected by the crime team . " our investigation has shown that the murderer did not break into the house and after committing the crime he simply walked away . also , the victim died due to suffocation and the murderer could have killed him by suffocating him with a pillow , " a police official added .  another reason for putting out the ' hate crime ' theory is that cops have already ruled out a robbery angle as all expensive items are in at their rightful place . " there is no clue that hints at robbery . when investigators reached the spot , they found three expensive laptops lying in the room . the roommate has also confirmed that nothing from the room has gone missing . there are no injuries on the deceased 's body that could have resulted in death , " sources said .  according to sources , investigators feel the murder could have been committed by one of the deceased 's partners him who had issues with his sexual preferences .  investigators feel more than one person may be involved in the crime . they also feel that the deceased could have used a separate mobile number exclusively for his partners . on the day of the crime , the roommate was not in town and cops have given him a clean chit in the case . the victim was expected to report for work on wednesday . his body was discovered when he did not reach office , and his phone was found switched off . one of his colleagues came to check on him and discovered his body .