Health apps, the latest fitness consultants
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/fitness/Health-apps-the-latest-fitness-consultants/articleshow/45939916.cms

the tech-savvy folk of the city seem to have taken fitness into their own hands , literally . with smartphone apps replacing the conventional way of doing things , getting a diet chart made by a dietician or logging your daily run records in a logbook has become too passe for city folk .  more and more health-conscious lucknowites are turning towards fitness apps , with some even giving a miss to the good-ol ' gym trainer and making the app in their pocket their health guru . ranging from calorie counters , daily run trackers to even workout music providers , there 's an app to the rescue of every health-conscious individual .  counting the calories spent days fretting over how many calories you consumed on that one day when you ate that decadent death by chocolate pastry ? worry no more , diet nazi , for the calorie counting apps will happily do that for you . most popular in this category are myfitnesspal and calorie counter , both free apps , which ask the user to log in their daily consumption meal-wise as someone who is always on set , it was quite difficult for me to monitor my calorie intake . now , at least i have figures to share with my dietician so that she can work out a better plan for me , " says 29-year-old piyush abhay singh , a city-based filmmaker , who has been using myfitnesspal for a month now . " i can actually plan out my food intake during the day in a better format . i have actually lost weight and inches just by keeping my food and water habits in check with the help of these apps .  apps recommended by lucknow wallahs  here are a few apps that residents of the millennium city swear by  runkeeper : keeps you motivated along with tracking your fitness goals and recordsnike runner : while being trendy it maintains records of the runs . great for the preps for marathonsgymapp : keeps track of all possible gym training . has a good database of exercises . lets you create individual training course and your own exercises.calorie counter - myfitnesspal : if you want this is the app to use . food and water intake logger . best app to keep track of your macrosfitbit : keeps a track of all body activities like sleep pattern , walking , running and the basic vital stats . helps maintaining a healthy lifestyle .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .