Cash on delivery of train tickets in 7 Karnataka cities
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mysuru/Cash-on-delivery-of-train-tickets-in-7-Karnataka-cities/articleshow/46156178.cms

cash on delivery of train tickets in 7 karnataka cities  now , you can book a rail ticket online and get it delivered at your doorstep where the payment can be made .  tnn feb 7 , 2015 , 04.25 pm ist  mysuru : now , you can book a rail ticket online and get it delivered at your doorstep where the payment can be made . after the success of online sales in india , indian railway catering and tourism corporation limited ( irctc ) is now starting the cash-on-delivery ( cod ) system for train tickets .  the scheme has been launched on pilot basis in 200 cities . passengers from seven cities in karnataka - belagavi , dharwad , kalburgi , hubballi , manipal , tumakuru and udupi - can avail this option .  irctc is targeting customers who are reluctant to use their credit or debit cards as well as those who do n't have net banking facility . " one has to just book the ticket online and payments can be made at the time of delivery days , " a senior irctc official said .  customers can book a ticket five days prior to commencement of journey . while rs 40 will be charged for the delivery of each sleeper class ticket , rs 60 will be charged for an ac class ticket . anduril technologies through their website and their app - bookmytrain.com is authorized for providing cod services .  " the new system will help passengers who do n't have net banking facility , " said rajkumar lal , divisional railway manager , mysuru division . " we expect the cod services in mysuru soon . it will help senior citizens and people who are not familiar with net banking facility , " said s vivek , who works in a private company .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .