Yennai Arindhaal review: Ajith show all the way with little else
http://www.hindustantimes.com/movie-reviews/yennai-arindhaal-review-ajith-show-all-the-way-with-little-else/story-uij2WBGQsorl6u72AiE6iN.html

gone it seems are the days of the director in indian cinema , and nothing can be truer than this in the tamil industry , where a rajinikanth or a kamal hassan or a surya or an ajith hold audiences in a mesmeric trance . ajith 's latest outing in gautham vasudev menon 's last of the cop trilogy , yennai arindhaal ( after kaakha kaakha and vettaiyaadu vilaiyaadu ) , is an unmistakable case in point .  the audience in the multiplex where i watched this film went into rapturous applause every time ajith ( as policeman satyadev ) slipped into the frame , and not that one time when menon -- in hitchcockian style -- appeared . the thunderous claps often made it impossible for me to follow some of the on-screen conversations , and this was in addition to several mutes of expletives -- presumably a compromise for an u.  the movie is certainly not for universal viewing , and the blood and gore accompanied by gun duels , knifing and bouts of fierce wrestling seem to mock the censor certificate . an ajith show , an actor who has to vanquish villains with a weapon and woo women with a rose . but menon 's vigilante officer in khaki -- worshipped by colleagues , feared by enemies and chased by women ( one comes on so strongly that it begins to look painful ) -- is a spent hero . ajith looks not only old and tired , but positively wooden and disinterested playing satyadev .  while satyadev follows his murdered father 's advice to stay on the right side of law , his adversary , victor ( a delightfully nuanced performance by arun vijay ) , despite a great chance to reform , sinks into organised crime . he steals organs -- not from cadavers alone , but living humans . he is not happy picking just one kidney from a man and letting him live with the other . victor and his team take both and kill the victim , but when they set their eyes on software executive thenmozhi ( an unimpressive anushka shetty ) , plotting to take her ( hold your breath ) heart and sell money , satyadev steps in . victor had clearly not bargained for this .  yennai arindhaal weaves in and out of endless chases , and gun battles between the two men . there are songs , there is the nagging voice-over by ajit telling us about his dilemmas and then there are two romances -- the first that satyadev has with dancer hemanika ( essayed with heart-tugging emotions by trisha krishnan ) , and the second with thenmozhi .  if there is little sizzle in the romances , the scenes between satyadev and hemanika 's daughter from a failed marriage , esha ( baby anikha ) , are so contrived -- a clear example of inept helming .  arguably , yennai arindhal is the most disappointing in the trilogy , with ajith -- probably pushed and prodded by a huge fan club -- refusing to let go the centre stage . but for all the hype and hoopla , i wish ajith had perked himself up to do some justice to the policeman he is on screen , albeit one who treats the law as an ass . addition to the countless cop dramas . there is just nothing , nothing novel in it that you could have taken home .