FIR against PWD, Mhada &amp; police housing department
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/FIR-against-PWD-Mhada-police-housing-department/articleshow/46157779.cms

fir against pwd , mhada &amp; police housing department  a bandra metropolitan magistrate has directed the police to register an fir against unknown officials of the public works department , police housing department and maharashtra housing and area development authority ( mhada ) for alleged violations of the environment protection act in a proposed redevelopment of mahim police line near mahim creek  tnn feb 7 , 2015 , 12.52 pm ist  mumbai : a bandra metropolitan magistrate has directed the police to register an fir against unknown officials of the public works department , police housing department and maharashtra housing and area development authority ( mhada ) for alleged violations of the environment protection act in a proposed redevelopment of mahim police line near mahim creek .  on february 5 , additional chief metropolitan magistrate , 9th court bandra , sr pahade heard a complaint filed under the environment protection act against an attempt at redevelopment of mahim police line in coastal zone regulation ( crz ) -i mangrove zone . the private complaint was against angan majoor sahkari sanstha maryadit , an . the other unknown accused persons , include contractors and government officers involved in the alleged conspiracy , the court was told .  the complaint was filed by santosh dhaundkar after he wrote to authorities about the proposed construction of 198 new police tenements in the no-development zone , a 50 m buffer around mangroves is crz-1 . his lawyer , aditya pratap , informed the magistrate that the coastal zone management plan makes it clear that the mahim police lines is covered with mangroves . the hc , he said had barred any construction within 50 m of the mangrove edge and yet authorities did n't put a stop to commencement of soil testing for the project . " not even engineering activities like soil testing can be carried out in the no-development mangrove buffer zone , " said pratap .  the complaint was also that under an illegible signature of an executive engineer of the pwd , the accused were allowed to carry out work within the mangrove buffer zone around building numbers seven and eight for rs 7.25 lakh resulting in a violation of the crz .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .