Odisha let Saurashtra off the hook
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhubaneswar/Odisha-let-Saurashtra-off-the-hook/articleshow/46156588.cms

Odisha let Saurashtra off the hook  Pacers reduce visitors to 99 for eight but fail to capitalize as Saurashtra make 218 in their first innings  TNN Feb 7 , 2015 , 06.30 AM IST  Basant Mohanty after his four-wicket haul against Saurashtra on Friday  Cuttack : It 's never too late to lose the plot . At least that is what Odisha proved on the first day of their last group-stage Ranji Trophy match at Barabati Stadium here on Friday . With Saurashtra tottering on 99 for eight a little after lunch , the hosts let their hopes for the seven points on offer fade when they allowed No. 7 batsman Chirag Jani to team up with the tail-enders to take the visitors to 218 in their first essay and change the script of the day . At stumps , Odisha were zero for no loss managing to get just one over of batting on Day 1 and with openers Paresh Patel and Girija Rout at the crease .  While the Odisha bowlers , led by Basant Mohanty ( 4-40 ) , ) , reigned supreme in the first part of proceedings , the latter half saw the emergence of the hero of the day in 25-year-old Jani . The all-rounder took his team out of the doldrums and to a fighting total but could not get the coveted three-figure for himself as he was left stranded and unbeaten at the other end on 99 . He also got the assistance from tail-enders Siddharth Trivedi and Sudeep Tyagi with whom he formed ninth and tenth-wicket partnerships of 47 and 72 runs respectively .  Before that , it had been a one-sided story with Odisha in the driver 's seat . Skipper Abhilash Mallick won the toss and asked the visitors to bat .  Saurashtra lost their first wicket in the form of opener Sagar Jogiyani who was caught at slip to a Mohanty out-swinger in the fifth over . But the highlight among the dismissals was that of Cheteshwar Pujara who was completely deceived and got his off-stump uprooted by the second delivery of Mohanty 's second spell , which was a gem of an in-swinger .  Then the Saurashtra Behera and Mangaraj playing their parts in the action .  In fact , it never looked that the visitors could get back in the game until Jani held the fort and reached his fifty . Then he let his bat do the talking . The five sixes that he hit , which were also the only five of the Saurashtra innings , also came after the ninth man was dismissed and his free-flowing shots changed the texture of this vital Group B encounter .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to @ @ @ @ @