Cloud computing beneficial: Experts
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/Cloud-computing-beneficial-Experts/articleshow/46159873.cms

Cloud computing beneficial : Experts  With rapid advancements in the field of information and communication technology ( ICT ) , cloud computing has assumed much significance in providing better insights on potential services , innovations and people 's requirements and improving our lifestyles .  TNN Feb 7 , 2015 , 11.53 PM IST  PATNA : With rapid advancements in the field of information and communication technology ( ICT ) , cloud computing has assumed much significance in providing better insights on potential services , innovations and people 's requirements and improving our lifestyles . Cloud computing technology is fast becoming a lifeline for most developing countries , so far as their socio-economic development is concerned .  These observations were made by ICT experts and academia at a daylong seminar on " Cloud computing : a paradigm shift in ICT " organized by the MCA programme of Patna University statistics department in collaboration with the Computer Society of India at geology auditorium here on Saturday .  They pointed out that educational institutions have been quick to realize the advantages of cloud computing technology ability of the students to access data anywhere , anytime , to enrol in online classes and to participate in group activities . Access is now instantly available and in many instances free , thanks to the proliferation of websites dispensing educational material and cloud knowledge-sharing communities . A simple Internet connection can go a long way , they said .  Inaugurating the seminar , PU pro-vice-chancellor R K Verma highlighted the benefits of cloud computing and pleaded for its wide application for dissemination of knowledge . This technology can prove much beneficial for the poor and marginalized sections of the society , he said .  PU 's former vice-chancellor and Central University of Bihar ( CUB ) ' s statistics department head Arun Kumar Sinha said cloud computing is beneficial not only for the educationists but also for banking , agriculture , health and science . In fact , this technology has revolutionized the entire information technology sector , he said .  Computer Society of India chairman A K Nayak said ICT is changing rapidly by adopting faster , effective and latest computing technologies and contributing significantly , people are rapidly adopting mobile phones , Internet access and broadband connectivity . In the days to come , there shall be a significant increase in expenditure on IT hardware , software and services , he said .  More than 150 delegates , including students and faculty members from Patna Women 's College , Magadh Mahila College , St. Xavier 's College , Indira Gandhi National Open University , NIT Patna and Central University of Bihar , attended the seminar .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the @ @ @