Young headline makers of IPL 2015!
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/ipl/news/Young-headline-makers-of-IPL-2015/articleshow/47040944.cms

young headline makers of ipl 2015 !  a look at some of the young guns who have been impressing everyone with their performances in the 2015 indian premier league .  tnn apr 24 , 2015 , 07.10 pm ist  the gujarat boys  deepak hooda ( team rajasthan ) , in his first ipl , is playing a fearless brand of cricket . in his first four innings , he has hit 11 sixes , scored a match-winning half-century ( 54 off 25 balls against team delhi ) and his strike rate is over 218 ! this handy off-spinner has taken a wicket too . 21 year old axar patel has been in fine form for team punjab , taking six wickets and scoring useful runs lower down the order . against team rajasthan , his cool innings under immense pressure took the game to super over , which his team eventually won .  the consistent leggie  while team bangalore have n't had a great start to the ipl , their 24 year old leg-spinner yuzvendra chahal has been a real find , yuzvendra is a former chess player who has represented india at junior levels . he has taken eight wickets in four games and against team chennai , he handled the challenge of opening the bowling in style , getting the wickets of brendon mccullum , suresh raina and m s dhoni .  the explosive opener  along with his young opening partner shreyas iyer , 24 year old mayank agarwal has impressed for team delhi so far , scoring 122 runs in five games at a strike rate of over 130 . this bangalore batsman idolises virender sehwag .  moolah matters  even before playing a single game , 20 year old " mystery spinner " k c cariappa made headlines when he was bought for rs 2.40 crores by team kolkata . considering his base price was just rs 10 lakhs , this was a huge moment for cariappa , who was playing tennis ball cricket for money even two seasons ago . the same can be said for team delhi 's 20 year old opener shreyas iyer , who was bought for rs 2.6 crores , rs 10 lakhs ! he has justified the faith by becoming team delhi 's top scorer after the first five games .  beginner 's luck  after being left out for the first three games played by team mumbai , 22 year old unmukt chand , who led the india under-19 side to a world cup win in 2012 , made an immediate impact . he scored a match-winning 58 against team bangalore , and team mumbai will depend heavily on him for the remainder of the ipl .  a dynamic bowling duo  in a team that has world-class fast bowlers like mitchell johnson , who would have thought that two indian youngsters would open the bowling for team punjab ? 21 year old sandeep sharma and 27 year old anureet singh have done exactly that , and with great success , taking eight wickets each ! sandeep 's economy rate is an impressive 5.55 and his comeback after a stress fracture in the back has been sensational .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .