Advent-led consortium to buy consumer arm of Crompton Greaves
http://in.reuters.com/article/crompton-greaves-divestiture-idINKBN0NF08220150424

advent-led consortium to buy consumer arm of crompton greaves  mumbai  an employee works on a transformer inside an electrical appliances manufacturing unit on the outskirts of jammu february 28 , 2014 .  reuters/mukesh gupta/files  mumbai the holding company behind crompton greaves ltd has agreed to sell the group 's consumer electricals unit for 20 billion rupees ( $316 million ) to advent international corp and a unit of singapore 's temasek holdings .  holding company avantha and private equity firm advent said in a statement on friday the buyers would take a 34.37 percent share , with the remainder to be listed on the market . the deal gives crompton greaves consumer electricals an enterprise value of 66 billion rupees ( $1.04 billion ) .  the board of crompton greaves , a conglomerate whose activities stretch from power transmission equipment to fans and air coolers , approved a plan in march to hive off its consumer products business into a separately listed company .  the consumer electricals unit will be first demerged into a standalone company and will list . additional shares in compliance with takeover rules , the companies said in a joint statement .  " cgcel is an attractive business that we believe will thrive as a standalone company , " said shweta jalan , managing director at advent international in mumbai .  crompton 's consumer electrical unit has grown at a compound rate of 16 percent per year over the past six years and generated revenue of 28.5 billion rupees for the fiscal year ended march 31 , 2014 , the company said .  crompton greaves shares fell as much as 7.7 percent after the announcement and were down 2.4 percent at 11:30 am ist as traders worried that the price fell short of market expectations .  trending on reuters  diplomacy  the quiet involvement of pakistan 's powerful military in its foreign policy this year paved the way for reviving a stalled dialogue with india , officials said , a thaw leading to the first visit to pakistan by an indian premier in almost 12 years . full article