China targets gambling hub of Macau in crackdown on graft
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/china-targets-gambling-hub-of-macau-in-crackdown-on-graft/articleshow/47038300.cms

hong kong : china 's fight against corruption has spread to the world 's largest gambling hub , the former portuguese colony of macau , where seven people including government officials are being investigated for graft , including accepting bribes .  the developments are in stark contrast to last year , when no high-profile officials were questioned about bribery , according to the website of macau 's commission against corruption . the commission did not immediately respond to a request for comment .  in just a couple of decades , macau , across the pearl estuary from hong kong , has transformed itself from a crime-ridden backwater , where triad gangs fought turf wars on the streets , to the world 's top gambling centre , overtaking las vegas and attracting investors such as u.s. casino tycoons steve wynn and sheldon adelson .  the most recent corruption case , announced on the website on thursday , involved two officials from the transport bureau , who were detained on suspicion of accepting bribes totalling 16 million patacas ( $2 million ) from three companies that weng chon was sworn in in december during a visit by chinese president xi jinping and has pledged to support the mainland in its mission to stamp out corruption .  cheong in march said the bureau would " exert the best efforts to prevent macau from turning into a transit point or destination for illicit money outflows and corrupt officials fleeing the country " .  since xi became leader in march 2013 , he has warned that corruption threatens the communist party 's very survival . macau returned to chinese rule in 1999 , two years after the former british colony of hong kong .  other macau cases have included the arrest of a chief prison officer on suspicion of receiving bribes in the form of abalone and ginseng as well as lavish accommodation in return for providing special treatment to an inmate .  two officials in the marine and water bureau and two employees from the civil engineering laboratory are also under investigation , according to the commission 's website .  macau 's public security bureau has also cracked down on prostitution , busting two  this follows the high-profile bust of a syndicate in january at sjm holding 's hotel lisboa where police detained executive alan ho , the nephew of former macau kingpin stanley ho .  the crackdown comes at a time when gambling revenues are plummeting as high rollers stay away due to fears of being caught up in graft investigations . revenues for april are expected to drop 40 percent in the 11th consecutive monthly fall .