How to Cut the Risk of Food Poisoning in the Kitchen
http://food.ndtv.com/food-drinks/how-to-cut-the-risk-of-food-poisoning-in-the-kitchen-760005

how to cut the risk of food poisoning in the kitchen  campylobacter is a type of deadly bacteria that causes food poisoning and is the most common cause of infections . the implications of this bacteria have been known for over centuries and it 's been proved more than a few times that store-bought chicken often comes infected with this bacteria .  a study published in the journal of applied microbiology has suggested a unique solution that could help eliminate the risk of food poisoning from campylobacter by 99.2% . with the use of disinfectant wipes !  " the scary thing about campylobacter is that you really do not need to ingest that many bacteria to get a nasty illness , so we have to wipe clean our kitchen surfaces and wash our hands after preparing poultry , " said gerardo lopez from the university of arizona in the us .  raw poultry bought from the supermarket may be contaminated with campylobacter . even though cooking the meat thoroughly , until the juices run clear , will destroy the bacteria , there is area could cause illness .  campylobacter infections are common , causing vomiting and diarrhoea , and can be very dangerous for young children , older people , and anyone with a compromised immune system . while refraining from washing poultry under the tap , can help prevent spread of the bacteria through splashing and spraying , this new research suggests that cleaning up with a disinfectant wipe straight after unwrapping and/or preparing poultry meat could further protect people from infection .  " we found that it is not just the physical removal of bacteria by the wipe that helps - the antibacterial solution left behind on the counter surface continues to disinfect over the next few minutes , " lopez explained .  the researchers used antibacterial wipes on typical counter top materials - granite , laminate , and ceramic tile - to see if they reduce the risk of the cook and their family or guests ingesting harmful bacteria . the results were fed into a computer to calculate the potential reduction in risk of infection from using disinfectant wipes . the result was a reduction in the percent .