Out of the ordinary
http://www.thehindu.com/books/literary-review/out-of-the-ordinary/article7164478.ece

i picked up priya parmar 's book vanessa and her sister with no great expectations .  the languid opening pages promised a lazy sunday read . lazy being an appropriate adjective for a book about the bloomsbury group , a set that represented an effete dilettantism that used to once set my teeth on edge but rather amuses me now .  then , on page 11 , there was this sentence : " i wanted thoby 's friends to see her dazzle the way she can when she chooses to rake the conversation into a leafy pile and set it alight . " that 's when i sat up . a line like that could only promise a book out of the ordinary .  and it is . priya parmar 's book sizzles like some fiery comet , with language , wit and intelligence . it tackles what is not really an easy subject , for while it is a chronicle of the bloomsbury set , whose lives excite endless curiosity , it is also a deeply personal and revealing account of virginia woolf constellation . but it is her sister and artist vanessa bell who is at the centre . the sister who must recede so that insecure virginia might shine ; who deeply resents virginia 's insanity and genius , and the way it consumes everything in its way .  the format is unusual -- it pretends to be vanessa 's personal memoir . and the jottings are interspersed randomly with the postcards the bloomsberries exchanged ; their boat or train tickets , like a portsmouth ferry ticket to le havre ; the telegrams they sent out about serious stuff like illnesses or frivolities like ' please bring gruyere i like . stop ' ; or vanessa 's shopping lists for paints and brushes and canvases .  these are all obviously part of the rich material that parmar studied to produce such an authentic voice for vanessa and , indeed , for all of the group members in this meticulously researched book . but putting these tickets and telegrams into the book , like one would stick stuff into a travel journal , is a quirky touch that adds a lot ? ne like no amount of mere description of the era could do . the device also acts as a window into the heads of the bloomsberries , performing the role of omniscient narrator that a journal could not otherwise do .  the bloomsbury group was a precocious bunch of intellectuals who got together in the early 1900s to become what was later recognised as a bridge between england 's victorian and modern eras . with members like virginia woolf , e.m . forster , lytton strachey , john maynard keynes , roger fry , and leonard woolf , the group was practically a who 's who of its times . bertrand russell , aldous huxley , and t.s . eliot were sometimes associated with them .  radical and avant-garde , the eclectic bunch met regularly in the house in bloomsbury that the four stephen siblings , vanessa , thoby , virginia and adrian , had set up after the deaths of their parents . they cocked a snoot at all victorian mores , whether in literature , criticism and painting , or feminism , pacifism and sexuality . homosexuality , cohabitation or m ? nage-a-trois . not just this but their preoccupation with themselves and their life choices made them the object of much derision . d.h . lawrence famously described them as " little swarming selves " . parmar 's book recognises this self-obsession . desmond maccarthy 's fianc ? e asks , much to the group 's utter consternation , " why would others care what boundaries are broken in this house ? " and an amused vanessa notes in her diary ' i honestly do not think it had occurred to any of us that what we did was unimportant ' .  vanessa was the group 's anchor but , most importantly , she was anchor to virginia , who teetered dangerously on the edge of madness ( now thought to be bipolar disorder ) . parmar paints virginia from a sister 's eye , warts and all , and shows her pathological dependence on vanessa , to the point of deeply resenting her marriage to clive bell , whom she proceeds to seduce . virginia 's lesbianism is also latent -- she asks vanessa sackville-west , wife of diplomat harold nicolson .  vanessa struggles to hold on to her self against virginia 's imperious commandeering of her time , attention and affection . " her way is acquisitive . she is always interested in more -- more affection , more attention ... more warmth , more secrets . " vanessa 's anger and resentment seethe below the surface , because virginia would not survive an open confrontation . but , despite this , there is also love , sympathy and pride in virginia 's immense talent . one evening , listening to her talk with the assembled men , vanessa says , " her voice broke free of its rusted shell and slid like a deep river over rocks . i watched them watch her . she stands with them as an equal ... "  the book picks virginia bare , but it is also an intimate insider view of the bloomsbury group at their vulnerable , personal moments , rather than their strident public persona . but , most of all , it is a sister 's account of living with and exactly as the painter vanessa might have , seeing the world in colours and shapes . " ... we four wrung the last hours of tumbling sunshine from the summer , " says a journal entry . or this : " no ... it is no longer a single , straight-syllabled word ... instead it is a tumbledown cottage of a word , furnished in curiosity and thatched in doubt . "  mainly , though , parmar imagines the drawing rooms , the dinners , the conversations and journeys of the famous group with an unerring eye for detail and tone that makes them come alive . this book takes historical fiction to a delightful new height .  this is the first of three short stories by seetha ravi on the musical trinity -- syama sastri , tyagaraja and muthuswami dikshitar . the stories have been translated by prabha sridevan , former judge , m ... ?