The caf‚-isation of chaat
http://www.thehindu.com/features/magazine/the-cafisation-of-chaat/article7164741.ece

Sometimes the chic street food you get in swanky indoor settings may be better than the fare outside .  For 150 years almost , Jallaluddin 's family has been cooking kheer at Lal Quan in Shahjahanabad using the exact same recipe . Full fat milk is slow-cooked on a charcoal fire for almost eight hours , with rice . The result is a thick , creamy pudding , full of smoky aromas , a rich golden colour . This is kheer whose fame has spread far and wide ; the shop -- Bade Mian 's , as it is popularly called -- is an urban legend . Yet , while all of us may have dined on its reputation , far fewer have actually sampled the kheer . It is , after all , not easy for an average South Dilliwalla , and others , to brave Chawri Bazaar , get past the hustle-bustle , dodge the onslaught of rickshaws , pedestrians walking into you , thelas carrying bulky sacks and more ...  In distant Saket , at the other end of the city , scenario drastically different , a new modern Indian restaurant is gradually gathering steam . Desi Roots is quirky , colourful . It puts galauti kebab pate on the menu , to be delicately scooped off with bits of ulte tawe ka parantha-chips . There are sinkable couches , a bar and memorabilia that takes you back to an earlier India . But what is most striking is its dessert special : Jalalludin ki kheer . Presented in a fashionable jar , this is Bade Miyan stuff : charcoal flavour , the same thickened sweetness . The restaurant actually buys the kheer everyday from the Lal Quan shop , plates it differently , and serves up to its young customers .  All over India , traditional street food -- chaat , vada pao , bhel puri , samose , mithai , farsaan , and indeed kheer -- is making a huge new transition . From single-dish stalls and shops that traded both in bold flavours and reputations built over hundreds of years , the snacks and sweets are now getting " caf ? -ised " . Bade Miyan 's kheer being an extreme example , but it is true that you no longer have to brave the lanes and by-lanes of Agra and Delhi , Mathura and Mumbai , Kolkata , Chennai , Ahmedabad and Pune to get a bite of your favourite street flavours .  Cafes , pubs and chains of restaurants such as Monkey Bar , Soda Bottle Openerwalla , Farzi Caf ? and more have put the much-loved street eats in jazzed-up formats for their urban , young and aspirational consumers , so that whether you are in Delhi , Mumbai , Chennai or Bangalore has now become irrelevant to the process of accessing and enjoying the intrinsic flavours of the bazaars of different towns .  This month , when Soda Bottle Openerwalla opens up its third outpost in the country -- after its overwhelming success in Delhi -- Bangalore fooderati will have a chance to dine on some tweaked nostalgia . It 's not just the Irani caf ? staples that are on the menu , brun maska and berry pulao notwithstanding . But also quintessential Bombay creations : Baida Roti , Tardeo grilled sandwiches , Eggs Kejriwal and more . You do n't have to catch a flight to sample these .  The flip side is what all street food fans stop to ask : do these replications taste the same ? There is no simple answer . Part of the romance of eating the common man 's food is also the common man 's setting . When you have worked hard for a meal -- shopped relentlessly in Chandni Chowk , braved the Mumbai locals and more , a hot or spicy offering , reasonably priced , will seem better than a gourmet meal in a fancy restaurant , where expectations are that much higher .  But there is also a question of nuances . Chaat , for instance , as it has evolved all over U.P . ( and then spread to other parts of the country ) , uses the same basic ingredients but cooked with slightly different spices and variations as you traverse from region to region . Even in cities as close as Delhi and Agra , both capitals of the Mughal empire ( which is when chaat developed  In Shahjahanabad , the " authentic " tikki is stuffed with a mash of chana dal , pan-fried , then sliced into two and served as such with the fresh coriander green chutney and its counterpart , the tangy saunth or tamarind sauce . In Agra , conversely , the tikki goes under the name of " bhalla " ; the patty remains un-stuffed and is smashed up and served with a lashing of yoghurt and other sauces . The chaat masala used in both these cities is also quite distinct .  It is such finer nuances that tend to get lost when more homogenised forms of food retail take over . But the poshing up of street food also needs to be looked at from the prism of Indian chefs finding a more self confident " desi " vocabulary to express themselves and Indian consumers growing more comfortable in their skins to demand familiar flavours with a touch ( or more ) of inventiveness .  As a phenomenon , it is quite akin to sushi or rice buns or indeed burgers and crepes redefining themselves globally . also quirkiness and experimentation to elevate their favourite dishes .  An Indian Accent experimenting with khandvi-ravioli or puchkas with multiple flavours of water , or Farzi Caf ? serving up smashed bhel with cold liquid nitrogen or even a Gaggan Anand in Bangkok serving up his famous " Yoghurt " ( a sphere that reminds you of yoghurt in a papri-chaat ) are all efforts to appease this sensibility towards **25;0;TOOLONG . Whether some of these handiworks work , whether they are better than the " originals " may be debatable . It is perhaps also a question of your own sensibilities as a diner .  It may be easy to dismiss modern restaurants experimenting with chaat and street eats . After all , it is a form of reverse snobbery to point out that exact hole-in-the-wall shop that serves the best titbit . But in the hand of competent chefs , much of this modern retail manages to retain the essence of its origins . At the fashionable Pali Bhavan in Mumbai , I had galauti kebab almost as good as in Lucknow . That urban legend Tundey as well , in my humble opinion , having grown up in that city and now seen the proliferation of the kebab empire .  Similarly , I like the version of the vada pav that Monkey Bar in Delhi serves up with its square laadi pav and ghaati masala , as also SodaBottleOpenerWalla 's Berry Pulao , though it may be different from Britannia 's . And when I took a bite of the kulle , a now-disappearing chaat from old Delhi , at Desi Roots , it was exactly how my family would do them -- ginger slivers , small distinctive chickpeas in place , inside the fruit cups . There is only one chaatwalla in Chandni Chowk who still dishes these out . But dare I say , Desi Roots offers much better .  Sometimes , traditional places are not the most " authentic " -- steadily watering down their wares , tweaking flavours in response to perceived changes in palates and demand . Besides which , at the end of the day , all street food is a matter of innovation . If restaurants attempt the Slideshow  Nearly 70 underground fires have been raging beneath the Jharia coalfields for a century now , engulfing the thickly populated areas in and around Dhanbad district , Jharkhand . With 23 large underground mines and nine open cast mines , Jharia is India 's largest coal producer . Text and photos : Sindhuja  Slideshow  Irish Christmas markets are fast-passes to a winter wonderland in cities , villages and towns across Ireland , combining amazing shopping opportunities with the chance to sample the finest artisanal food and drink -- all this , while soaking up the festive yuletide atmosphere .  Group Sites  Recent Article in Magazine  The cultural legacy of 2015 can be summed up in two words : beef and intolerance . But in the midst of it all , the year brought some cheer for free-speech advocates with Section 66A of the IT Act being struck down ?