Pakistan slams India's conditions for resumption of talks; calls it ...
http://www.firstpost.com/world/pakistan-slams-indias-conditions-for-resumption-of-talks-calls-it-ironical-2275520.html

islamabad : pakistan on tuesday hit back at india for setting conditions for the resumption of talks , calling it " ironical " .  representational image . afp  " when india keeps violating ceasefire at the line of control and the working boundary , indulges in worst human rights violations against helpless kashmiris in indian occupied kashmir , and undertakes subversive activities in pakistan , then asking pakistan to create an environment free of violence only sounds ironical , " pakistan pm 's adviser on foreign affairs sartaj aziz said .  his remarks comes days after external affairs minister sushma swaraj reaffirmed adherence to three conditions including having an atmosphere " free of terror and violence " as a precursor to any engagement with pakistan and demanded action against terrorists including let commander zakiur rehman lakhvi who is facing trial in the mumbai attack case .  in a detailed rejoinder issued by the foreign office in pakistanm , aziz also referred to the recent articulation of indian policy by defence minister manohar parrikar , which , he said , has confirmed pakistan 's  he expressed surprise over swaraj 's remarks that multi-billion dollar pakistan-china economic corridor is " not acceptable " and said this mega project is all about regional connectivity and economic development and prosperity of the common people of the entire region .  " there is dichotomy in the indian statements on their pronouncements on the importance of the regional connectivity for development and their negative comments about cpec , " he said .  aziz said pakistan maintains a policy of non-interference in other countries ' bilateral relations and expects the same from others to refrain from commenting on pakistan 's bilateral relations with other countries .  he also said pakistan 's policy all along has been that all outstanding disputes , particularly the dispute of jammu and kashmir , should be resolved through dialogue and it has conveyed to india that it remains committed to dialogue , provided india is ready .  he said pakistan believes in a sustained , comprehensive and result-oriented dialogue .  " pakistan also believes that the people of jammu and kashmir are important stakeholders in the final resolution of the to self-determination as enshrined in numerous un resolutions , " aziz said .  he said prime minister nawaz sharif 's vision envisages improved relations with all its neighbours including india and it was in this spirit that sharif attended the oath taking ceremony of prime minister narendra modi last year .  aziz also blamed india for the slow progress in the mumbai attack trial of let commander lakhvi and six others , accusing it of " reluctance " in allowing a judicial commission to visit india .  " indian concern over slow progress calls into question their own reluctance to cooperate by not allowing the judicial commission 's visit to india until september 2013 , " he said , adding that the trial was proceeding in the court of law .  raising samjhuta blasts issue , aziz said pakistan has its concerns as information on the trial of indian military 's active service officers , who were allegedly the mastermind , has not been shared .  scores of pakistanis were killed in the blasts in the samjhuta express train near panipat in 2007 .  " victims ' families are still waiting for delivery of justice , " he said .  he said that terrorism is a common challenge and fighting this menace requires collective efforts .