'Schools to impart agri education'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Schools-to-impart-agri-education/articleshow/47517766.cms

' schools to impart agri education '  agro-tourism , agriculture education in schools and adoption of villages for all-round development will be the way to go as per the new plan laid out by the agriculture department .  tnn jun 2 , 2015 , 09.01 pm ist  panaji : agro-tourism , agriculture education in schools and adoption of villages for all-round development will be the way to go as per the new plan laid out by the agriculture department .  two agro-tourism spots on the government farms of codar in ponda and kalay in sanguem have been identified for the development of camping sites with overviews of agriculture in goa .  local schools will also be encouraged to utilize the service for schools and centres of excellence will be established in these locations . while floriculture will be adopted at the kalay farm , the codar farm will have olericulture .  speaking to mediapersons on monday , agriculture minister ramesh tawadkar said " agro-tourism can also be used as a model that each farmer can adopt on their own land and make attempts to encourage youngsters to take up careers in farming . an area between 0.5 to 1 acre will be reserved on all government farms for the same .  this year , the department has selected 33 new villages as part of its adoption of villages for its all-round development programme .  speaking on the provision of financial assistance to these farmers , he said , " each of these selected villages is linked with a bank for financial requirements . any farmer in goa in need of monetary help can therefore apply to us . "  the government will additionally provide an assistance of 80,000 per hectare in the form of input seed , fertilizer , manure , pesticide , water pump , pipelines , sprinklers , drip etc to farmers . the minimum area required for the same is 500 sqm and maximum is five hectares .  from around the web  more from the times of india  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .