Kalevar ritual for Jagannath temple idols on July 16
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhubaneswar/Kalevar-ritual-for-Jagannath-temple-idols-on-July-16/articleshow/47519202.cms

kalevar ritual for jagannath temple idols on july 16  for the lord jagannath devotees , the year 2015 marks the year when the deity will change the old ' kalevar ' ( body ) and assume the new one .  tnn jun 2 , 2015 , 10.31 pm ist  while the city 's jagannath temple at jamalpur will not see the change of ' kalevar ' , it surely will adhere to t ... read more  ahmedabad : for the lord jagannath devotees , the year 2015 marks the year when the deity will change the old ' kalevar ' ( body ) and assume the new one . at jagannath puri in odisha , the event will be a grand affair as all three idols of jagannath , balbhadra and subhadra will be made anew according to the age-old rituals and will be set on the giant chariots -- the ritual known as ' nabakalebara ' .  while the city 's jagannath temple at jamalpur will not see the change of ' kalevar ' , it surely will adhere to the july 16 , two days prior to the 138th rath yatra .  mahendra jha , trustee of shree jagannathji temple trust , said that in pushtimaarg sampradaya , the ritual of changing idols is observed in the year when there are two months of ashadha or ' adhik maas ' ( additional month ) in hindu calendar .  " such events take place at the period of 12 or 18 years . the city temple had seen such a coincidence lastly in 1996 . as the temple does n't have tradition of changing the idols , we will be performing special prayers and rituals -- some of which will have only the priests participating , " said jha .  jha said that adhik maas is considered very auspicious and the entire month will see thousands of devotees thronging the temple even as the deities will go to their ' maternal place . ' " it is believed that the deity resides in gau lok during this period and thus , we also see people taking care of the cow progeny , " he explained .  related  india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .