In search of Delhi's first city, Mehrauli
http://www.hindustantimes.com/books/in-search-of-delhi-s-first-city-mehrauli/story-cdPyi97lpOCtVx4l5RZNLM.html

built of red and buff sandstone , qutub minar has five storeys and four balconies . ( photo : saumya khandelwal/ht )  author rana safvi leads a walk through mehrauli , where prithviraj chauhan 's army fought mohammad ghori 's men , and where timur pledged not to sack the city of delhi .  safvi is one of those few twitter celebrities - she has about 20.6k followers - who is n't given to relentlessly pummelling the ether with tweets full of sound and fury signifying nothing . her twitter feed offers urdu poetry , ruminations on delhi 's culture and heritage , occasional panegyrics to krishna , great pictures of historic landmarks , and a glimpse into her own erudite , graceful personality . so when i learn that she has written a book on mehrauli , the oldest of delhi 's seven cities , i waste no time in fixing to wander with her through the precinct .  we meet at qutub minar 's gate and make our way into mehrauli and past emperor akbar 's foster brother adham khan 's tomb , adham khan was thrown off the ramparts of agra fort for killing another of the ruler 's foster brothers . the monument is currently being restored and already the intricate tiled pattern in the central dome seems to be emerging from under centuries of grime .  rana safvi at adham khan 's tomb . ( photo : saumya khandelwal/ht )  trudging down lanes that wind past homes and shops , we arrive at the shahi eidgaah where the delhi sultans once offered their eid prayers and where timur pledged not to sack the city . " he called all the ulema and the nobles and promised that he would not destroy or kill people . then , his women went to see the famous imarat e hazar sutun in adilabad , where someone misbehaved with them . some locals also fought with his soldiers . so then timur revoked his promise , sacked delhi and killed thousands of people , " rana says . the silence that follows the story is rent only by the screeching of parrots .  wandering further into sanjay van - where once aashiq allah or nazariya peer . " a lot of people come here , especially with babies , to ward off the evil eye , " rana says . the complex includes a cave where baba farid ganj-shakkar is believed to have meditated without food or water for a long stretch . close to the dargah , which has a fair number of visitors even on a muggy afternoon , are a number of graves . " that 's ganj e shaheeda'n , which means ' the place where the martyrs are buried ' , " rana says explaining that the martyrs here were mohammad ghori 's soldiers , who fell in the battles against prithviraj chauhan in 1191-92 . watching a family of mongooses scramble away from the graves and into the forest , i think about the ephemeral quality of human existence , of vital young men sinking into graves from one century to the next , hacking at each other till the end of time . rana draws both of us away from sombre thoughts and to the well close by where baba farid " did his chillah-e-makoos 40 nights .  soon we are trudging down winding paths through the jungle and past the remains of a fort wall . " this is where the original city was ; where anangpal tomar , prithviraj chauhan 's grandfather , established lal kot , " says rana adding that the later sultans called it qila rai pithaura . the qila was eventually abandoned by alauddin khilji for siri fort . " it 's called siri fort because of the 8,000 mongol heads he had buried in the foundations . that 's the legend , " rana says as we return to the busier part of mehrauli past overflowing garbage heaps and remnants of more ruins , a testament to how badly we treat our magnificent historical sites that would otherwise rival the monuments of rome . but whatever the state of our built heritage , you must pick up a copy of rana safvi 's book . full of information about mehrauli 's monuments and interspersed with legends and poetry , where stones speak is the handbook you should cart along on any exploratory walk through an area where ghosts 1 . qutub minar ( photo : saumya khandelwal/ht )  at 72.5m with 379 steps and built of red and buff sandstone , the qutub minar has five storeys and four balconies . built by three sultans and repaired by many , the history of its construction is all given in the inscriptions on the various levels of the minar . it is the tallest ashlar masonry minar in the world  2 . adham khan 's tomb ( photo : saumya khandelwal/ht )  the son of maham anga , emperor akbar 's foster mother , adham khan murdered another of the ruler 's foster brothers , atgha khan , in a fit of rage . for this , he was twice thrown off the ramparts of agra fort . his mother died of grief six months later . akbar built this monument to adham khan . maham anga is also believed to be buried in the complex though her tomb is no longer visible .  3 . shahi eidgaah ( photo : saumya khandelwal/ht )  the date of the eidgaah 's construction is not known but 1398 ad . now made of whitewashed brick , it has a small doorway in the centre of the west wall . this was used by the sultans so they did n't have to cross the common courtyard .