Meet Rakesh Vaid, the lord of 20000 key rings
http://www.hindustantimes.com/india/meet-rakesh-vaid-the-lord-of-20-000-key-rings/story-2wQXZTQoRwK3Clwz2z73kN.html

Meet Rakesh Vaid , the lord of 20,000 key rings  Neighbours and friends called Rakesh Vaid " mental " and his wife was furious when she first heard his " crazy " idea in 2013 but he remained resolute . In the next two years , Vaid made over 200 national and international records , including three Limca Book of Records , for the largest collection of key rings ( 13,500 ) , largest collection of key rings on Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan ( 1,110 ) , biggest key ring ( Titanic ) , smallest key chain ( Indian national flag ) among others .  The 62-old-year-old Delhi resident is now busy preparing photoframe key chains on former president APJ Abdul Kalam as a tribute to the " Missile Man " on his 84th birth anniversary falling on October 15 .  " It 's my love and respect for the late president that I have decided to make 500 key rings on his memory . R Rajendran , founder of Assist World Records which had awarded me for the largest collection of key rings invited me to Puducherry where I will be felicitated on the occasion , " Vaid tells HT .  Rakesh with a giant 10-feet-long , 1-feet-wide and 11-inch-tall Titanic ship model with 52 photoframe key rings of some of its crew members and passengers strung all around the bow . ( HT Photo )  Vaid 's apartment in east Delhi 's Mayur Vihar Phase-II is no less than a miniature photo archive . Name any actor , sportsperson or even a freedom fighter , and you can find a bunch of key chains with their photographs hanging from the display boards put up all across his residence . His drawing room is filled wall to wall with awards , certificates and medals , all he achieved in just two years .  The ' ring ' master also has 1,100 photo frame key chains , each on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sachin Tendulkar--the largest such collections so far . Key rings on Modi 's RSS days to his first day at the Prime Minister 's Office and the cricketer 's much-celebrated childhood picture holding a bat to his final he is eyeing to claim his fourth Limca record for the largest collection of key chains ( 20,000 ) in the country . His feat has already been acknowledged by the High Range Book of Records in 2015 .  After running a housekeeping firm for 21 years , this Delhiite quit work in 2012 due to his health condition .  " During my service , my clients would present me key rings as tokens of appreciation , and I used to keep them in my house . Gradually , I also started collecting photoframe key rings of different personalities . During that period , I also made more than 300 hand-made chains in varied shapes , sizes and colours that included India Gate , swimming pool , tubelight , metal detector , etc , " recalls Vaid .  In February 2013 , a year after his retirement , Vaid decided to renovate his house . That was when one of his neighbours noticed hundreds of his key rings kept in a carton . " He asked me why I did n't put them on display , " says were as many as 7,700 key rings .  A certificate issued to Rakesh Vaid by Limca Book of Records . ( HT Photo )  " Soon , I contacted Limca Book of Records and many other national and international organisations like Universal Records Forum , Everest World Records , Record Setter and the rest is history , " he says , while holding one of the certificates .  Addicted to turning any waste material into a show piece , Vaid had to face his wife 's wrath for " ruining money and time . " " I used to collect magazines and newspapers to collect cut-outs of different personalities . My wife was against it , so I had to hide those rings . My neighbours laughed at me when they came to know about my hobby , but my daughter , who stays in Mumbai , backed me , " the collector says .  The ' lord of rings ' may have countless records under his belt , but still turns child-like with excitement as he shows off a giant 10-feet-long , 1-feet-wide and 11-inch-tall Titanic its crew members and passengers strung all around the bow . He completed the masterpiece in merely 28 days ( January 12 , 2014 - February 10 , 2014 ) , using thermocol sheets , chart paper , cardboard , pencils and fibreglass sheet .