Cops gear up to snoop online
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Cops-gear-up-to-snoop-online/articleshow/48726785.cms

cops gear up to snoop online  delhi police has finally prepared a master plan to snoop on the world wide web . giving shape to its ambitious project , open source intelligent solution , the department is set to acquire technology for tracking social networks and internet chat rooms  tnn aug 29 , 2015 , 11.45 pm ist  new delhi : delhi police has finally prepared a master plan to snoop on the world wide web . giving shape to its ambitious project , open source intelligent solution ( osint ) , the department is set to acquire technology for tracking social networks and internet chat rooms .  a tender inviting global firms for a pre-bid meeting will be out next week , sources said , adding that the cyber cell has finalized the request for procedures related to the proposal .  the project was conceptualized two years ago and toi was the first to report about delhi police 's plan to track online communications on june 22 , 2013 .  " criminals and terrorists are increasingly resorting to the use and planning purposes . osint will help us extract and analyze material available on the numerous public domains on the internet , " a senior officer said .  osint will focus on gathering ' actionable intelligence ' and will also perform ' sentiment analysis ' , the psychological analysis of communications to pre-empt a crime by collecting and analyzing data from online sources . psychological analysis of sentiments from conversations can help police prevent many unwanted situations , officers said .  the project is being supervised by senior special commissioner of police dharmendra kumar and is critical for its ability to analyze content on social media like facebook and twitter . this will provide police with a large amount of data at their fingertips and speed up investigations .  with context and object identification , the system will be able to discover related material online and identify people , places , organizations etc . also , it will help police profile ' suspects ' and build a database of criminals . the technology is already being used in countries like usa and uk .  police will be the existing databases for analysis . this will reduce the time needed to solve critical cases requiring a high level of technological expertise .  the system will extract data from any accessible website in formats ranging from plain text to office documents , pdfs , flat files , images , audio and video files and even files accessible via protocols . it would also support encoding for languages like arabic and hebrew that are bidirectional .  the move has raised privacy concerns as some officers see potential for misuse of this technology to compromise a person 's fundamental rights . however , cyber cell officers say arrangements will be made to make sure that the technology is used for lawful purposes like national security .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .