Senior Gurgaon cop accuses police commissioner of interference in ...
http://www.firstpost.com/india/senior-gurgaon-cop-accuses-police-commissioner-of-interference-in-high-profile-rape-case-2449270.html

gurgaon : gurgaon 's joint commissioner of police ( traffic ) bharti arora has accused her boss , navdeep singh virk , of harassment and mental torture and wrongly interfering in the enquiry into a high-profile rape case .  she has also demanded a central bureau of investigation ( cbi ) enquiry into the matter . virk , however , denied the allegations .  " i am writing to haryana dgp yashpal singhal and will demand high-level probe , including cbi , into the wrongly interference by virk in the alleged rape case , " arora told mediapersons .  it was established during the investigation that the alleged rape accused ajay bhardwaj , son of a senior ias officer , and his family was intentionally implicated in the rape case , jcp arora said .  navdeep singh virk . image courtesy : linkedin  the officer said that complainant had earlier too had slapped such charges on two men .  " when i started investigation into the rape case i realised that the commissioner of police has falsely implicated entire family in wrong . then he started torturing me mentally , threatened me and said , ' leave the case , otherwise you will suffer ' , " arora told media .  earlier , arora had written to singhal against virk , seeking his intervention , saying she feared that virk might harm her career .  virk has also sent a report to the dgp alleging that bharti is bent on saving the rape accused as his sister is known to her .  ajay bhardwaj , an mnc executive and the son of gurgaon 's former deputy commissioner r.p. bhardwaj was booked for rape ( 376 ) and his family members for criminal intimidation ( 506 ) under indian penal code last year . the complainant was bhardwaj 's former live-in partner , a resident of ardee city gurgaon , with whom she has a child . bhardwaj was arrested by gurgaon police from his office in noida on august 1 , 2014 .  the controversy started in july last year when arora was asked to probe the case . at that time , virk was not posted as carried out the investigation and found that the offences mentioned in the fir could not be made out but virk wanted to indict the accused .  virk , responding to the allegations , said : " i am sad that the valued colleague had to issue false statements in the media in matters which are official and under the consideration of the police headquarters , to hide her own misconduct . "  virk said the concerned officer is levelling such false allegations to hide her own illegal actions as a report for taking action against her has been sent to dgp haryana . " the rape victim has also been given security on the orders of the supreme court and she has made several complaints about the misconduct of jcp arora , " virk added .