Mumbai girl Danielle Canute wins 'India's Next Top Model'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tv/news/hindi/Mumbai-girl-Danielle-Canute-wins-Indias-Next-Top-Model/articleshow/49151570.cms

Mumbai girl Danielle Canute wins ' India 's Next Top Model '  Mumbai girl Danielle Canute was declared the winner of the first season of ' India 's Next Top Model ' - and she 's thrilled with the title .  IANS Sep 29 , 2015 , 03.01 PM IST  Mumbai girl Danielle Canute was declared the winner of the first season of ' India 's Next Top Model ' - and she 's thrilled with the title .  The 18-year-old dusky beauty , along with the other contestants , Gloria Tep and Rushali Rai participated in the finale , judged by the show 's mentors Lisa Haydon , Dabboo Ratnani , Anusha Dandekar and Neeraj Gaba .  " When I auditioned for the show , I had no idea that I would make it through to the first round of elimination , let alone winning the show . I am so happy and thrilled to have won ' India 's Next Top Model ' .  " I 'm just a normal teenager who got to work with the biggest names got to be mentored by Lisa Haydon , Neeraj Gaba , Anusha Dandekar and Dabboo Ratnani , " Canute , who 's in the second year of graduation , said in a statement .  Calling it an " unreal " experience , Canute added that it " is the biggest platform I could have got . "  She won the title against the most confident models . As a winner , she has received a year 's contract with talent management agency Bling ! She also gets a chance to get a spread in a fashion magazine , and is now the online face for TRESemmA India for a year .  In the hunt to find India 's Next Top Model , the reality show , presented by MTV , commenced on July 19 with 13 new faces .  The success of the first season of the show , which is an Indian version of ' America 's Next Top Model ' , has given its makers a reason to cheer .  " We are very happy with the show 's success and the overwhelming response Top Model ' .  " With the number of viewers that have accepted and enjoyed this season , we are confident that the franchise has a bright future in India , " Akash Sharma , co-founder and executive producer , Bulldog Media and Entertainment , the exclusive rights holder and producer for the India franchise of ' America 's Next Top Model ' , said .  Fashion photographer Dabboo Ratnani during the launch  Fashion photographer Dabboo Ratnani during the launch of MTV 's new show " India 's Next Top Model " in Mumbai . ( Pic : Viral Bhayani )  Neeraj Gaba during the launch  Neeraj Gaba during the launch of MTV 's new show " India 's Next Top Model " in Mumbai . ( Pic : Viral Bhayani )  Anusha Dandekar and Neeraj Gaba during the launch  Anusha Dandekar and Neeraj Gaba during the launch of MTV 's new show " India 's Next Top Model " in Mumbai . ( Pic : Viral Bhayani )  Snapped during the launch of MTV 's new show  Snapped during the launch Model " in Mumbai . ( Pic : Viral Bhayani )  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Read more  Featured Stories  And surprises awaited Salman Khan when he entered the Bigg Boss house on his birthday . Bigg Boss , along with the housemates set up a treasure hunt inside the house for Salman where he would navigate his way for clues and find his gifts hidden by the contestants .  They may have been extremely competitive when their reality show was Baliye 7 ' ) are the best of friends now .  Guess what 's keeping Nupur Alankar busy when she is not shooting ? Yoga . The ' Bhaage Re Mann ' actress is often seen doling out tips to her friends and co-actors on staying fit with this healthy practice .