Hero MotoCorp unveils 2 scooter models
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Hero-MotoCorp-unveils-2-scooter-models/articleshow/49151189.cms

Hero MotoCorp unveils 2 scooter models  Leading two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Tuesday unveiled two scooter models , developed on its own , as it aims to consolidate its position in the fast growing segment .  PTI Sep 29 , 2015 , 02.30 PM IST  Both the models have been developed in-house keeping global customer in focus . ( Photo courtesy : Twitter/Hero MotoCorp )  NEW DELHI : Leading two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Tuesday unveiled two scooter models , developed on its own , as it aims to consolidate its position in the fast growing segment .  Maestro Edge , which is priced between Rs 49,500 and Rs 50,700 ( ex-showroom Delhi ) will go on sale from October 13 .  The roll out of the second model Duet would follow thereafter . Hero did not disclose the price of the model .  " With the unveiling of the Duet and Maestro Edge today , Hero has entered into the next phase if its exciting journey , " Hero MotoCorp chairman &amp; MD Pawan Munjal told reporters here . customer in focus , he added .  " These new products are a testimony to our ongoing efforts to create a world class R&amp;D ecosystem that will create products from India for the world , " Munjal said .  At present , the company sells two scooter models , Maestro and Pleasure , clocking an average of about 60,000 units a month with a market share of 13 per cent in the segment .  " This ( market share ) is less than what Hero deserves . With the addition of these two new models we will only add to our market share , " Hero MotoCorp head sales , marketing and customer care Ashok Bhasin said .  The company 's eyes are firmly set on ' attaining leadership ' in the scooter segment , he added .  On product development , Munjal said the company , which is a leader in motorcycle segment with a 52 per cent market share , is developing a range of bikes and scooters for domestic as well as global markets .  Built on completely new engine and chassis 2014 Auto Expo .  Maestro Edge has already made debut in the Colombian market . The scooters come with features like remote fuel lid , side stand indicator and front luggage box .  The company has been focussing on product development ever since it parted ways with Japan 's Honda in 2011 .  On the company 's upcoming R&amp;D Centre at Jaipur , Munjal said the facility would be inaugurated on January 16 . The facility will house around 600 engineers .  Hero MotoCorp said it has started the process of bringing back the product development of models it was doing with Eric Buell Racing ( EBR ) , which had recently filed for bankruptcy .  Hero MotoCorp and the US-based EBR were in the process of developing a 250cc bike and a scooter . All the products which the company was developing with EBR would be now done here in India . Some of the models from the collaboration have already been launched .  Erik Buell Racing , in which the India two-wheeler giant had a substantial stake had filed for bankruptcy in April in 2013 for &amp;25 million ( about Rs 148 crore ) .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .