Internet access led to racial crimes in early 2000s: Research
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tech/tech-news/Internet-access-led-to-racial-crimes-in-early-2000s-Research/articleshow/49153608.cms

Internet access led to racial crimes in early 2000s : Research  The addition of a single broadband provider led to as much as a 20% rise in racial hate crimes in areas where racial tensions were especially high , researchers said .  PTI Sep 29 , 2015 , 05.15 PM IST  The addition of one broadband provider in every county in the US would have caused 865 additional incidences ... Read More  NEW YORK : Broadband availability increased the incidence of racial hate crimes committed by lone-wolf perpetrators in the US during the period 2001-2008 , researchers , including one of Indian-origin , have found .  The addition of a single broadband provider led to as much as a 20% rise in racial hate crimes in areas where racial tensions were especially high , researchers said .  The study , the first of its kind to document the relationship between the internet and hate crimes , sourced data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Federal Communications Commission , the US Census Bureau and the US Bureau of Labor Statistics of reported hate crimes arose from racial bias , making it by far the most typical form of bias-motivated crime in the US , " researchers said .  Using a large-scale data set from 2001-2008 , researchers from the University of Minnesota and New York University ( NYU ) showed an increase in the number of broadband providers led to an increase in racial hate crimes , particularly among lone-wolf perpetrators .  The addition of one broadband provider in every county in the US would have caused 865 additional incidences of racially driven crimes on an annual basis .  Yet the internet 's impact on hate crime was not uniform and was predominantly present in areas with higher levels of racism , identified by the amount of racial segregation present and the proportion of racially charged search terms used .  Greater internet access did not cause an increase in the formation of off-line hate groups , researchers said .  However , it may have enhanced the efficiency with which extremists could spread hate ideology and spur like-minded individuals to carry out lone-wolf attacks .  Furthermore and reflect on future policy implications .  " Technologically driven solutions fall short in addressing an issue that is inherently social in nature , " said NYU Stern Professor Anindya Ghose .  " Instead of engaging in a technological rat race with extremists , we should consider incorporating critical literacies -- including digital media , anti-racism and social justice -- into school curricula as an alternative strategy , " said Ghose .  " The positive relationship between broadband providers and the number of hate crimes is mainly found in places that have high levels of racism , " said Carlson School of Management Professor Jason Chan .  " The likely reason behind this is the internet facilitates this specialisation of interest . That is to say users will search out content online that is congruent to their beliefs or preferences and are not as likely to look up content that is counter to what they believe in , " said Chan .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .