Rate cut a booster for auto sales ahead of festive season
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Rate-cut-a-booster-for-auto-sales-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/49158069.cms

rate cut a booster for auto sales ahead of festive season  rbi 's rate cut will spur sales of cars and motorcycles during the all-important festive period that begins from october 13 , auto companies said after the central bank announced its steepest cut in three years .  tnn sep 29 , 2015 , 10.10 pm ist  new delhi : rbi 's rate cut will spur sales of cars and motorcycles during the all-important festive period that begins from october 13 , auto companies said after the central bank announced its steepest cut in three years .  while the impact on emis is expected to be very minimal - a five-year loan of rs 5 lakh will save you rs 7,200 over the payment term - companies said that rbi 's move has sent a positive signal to the market .  " this is a welcome and a positive signal to the auto industry , and will help in improving the sentiments , " rakesh srivastava , senior vp ( sales and marketing ) at hyundai motor india , said . " bringing down the cost of ownership . this festival gift of rate cut will assure growth . "  state bank of india , the country 's biggest bank , has already cut interest rates and other banks are likely to follow suit . " it is a positive surprise and will improve the sentiments . we will take a call on interest rates in the first week of october , " sumit bali , senior executive vp ( retail assets ) at kotak mahindra bank , said .  bali said that the rates have been moderating through the year in 2015 . " our interest rates on car loans have already been reduced by 0.25% this year , and we are currently at 9.75% . "  nearly 65% of new car sales happen through the financing route , and this share is expected to rise now .  " the market so far has been moving very slowly but with this rate cut , the sentiments will improve . it gives the much-needed boost in the pre-festive season , " r s kalsi , executive director in-charge of " on the whole , it gives a good signal to customers . "  industry officials said that the lowering of interest rates for home loans will also be a " crucial positive factor " for auto sales . " as banks reduce interest rates for home loans , the disposable income in the hands of consumers goes up and they look at spending on items such as vehicles , " an official with a domestic car company said .  two-wheeler makers also welcomed the move and said it will aid the sales of motorcycles and scooters . " it has come at an opportune time as it will help in raising customer sentiment during the festival season , " hero motocorp chairman and md pawan munjal said .  nearly 40% of two-wheelers sales are through the financing route .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .