Delhi woman wins flat via radio show
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Delhi-woman-wins-flat-via-radio-show/articleshow/49196902.cms

delhi woman wins flat via radio show  geetanjali babbar , who works relentlessly for improving the lives of children of sex workers in delhi 's infamous gb road red light area , has won a flat through a radio contest .  ians oct 2 , 2015 , 06.55 pm ist  representative image  new delhi : geetanjali babbar , who works relentlessly for improving the lives of children of sex workers in delhi 's infamous gb road red light area , has won a flat through a radio contest .  radio mirchi 98.3 fm 's ' flat 983 ' on-air contest , sponsored by investors clinic , has turned out to be a big ticket of comfort for babbar , who has been knocking on the doors of brothel owners with a vision of giving a new lease of life to the children of sex workers , with ngo ' kat-katha ' .  in the third season of its on-air show , mirchi designed the ' flat 983 ' contest purely on sunshine value to touch the emotional chords of its listeners appreciate ' delhi ke heroes ' .  the contest began in the first week of september , with the mirchi team requesting delhi residents to send nominations of people who are working towards the betterment of society voluntarily .  the most persuasive stories were selected as the top five finalists . for one week , the station voiced the story of these selected heroes through his or her personal interviews in all the shows . and delhi listeners had to vote for their favourite contestant via sms .  apart from babbar , the finalists were rajesh kumar singh , a college dropout who owns a general store at shakarpur and runs a school under a flyover located on railway land ; and medicine baba-omkar nath , who goes to many houses each day to collect medicines and donates them to those in need .  there was also dorris francis , a 57-year-old who lost her daughter in a car crash and since then has decided to get on that accident-prone intersection and manage traffic to make sure that no other commuter suffered her daughter 's fate ; my angels academy , where economically challenged children learn meditation , academics and athletics .  nitin singh , station head , radio mirchi , said in a statement : " this year mirchi not only provided a dream come true reward but is also gave recognition to those who deserve it the most . we hope to continue in contributing to our society through our innovative concepts . "  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .