Ajay Jadeja quits as Delhi Ranji team coach
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/top-stories/Ajay-Jadeja-quits-as-Delhi-Ranji-team-coach/articleshow/49193877.cms

ajay jadeja quits as delhi ranji team coach  former indian batsman ajay jadeja has resigned as the coach of the delhi ranji trophy team .  ani oct 2 , 2015 , 02.23 pm ist  highlights  * jadeja said he took the decision to quit as his ' opinions or inputs did not matter ' to ddca .  * the 44-year-old , however , thanked everyone who helped him to get involved with delhi cricket .  * jadeja was appointed by nominees of the delhi government.jadeja said that his sole objective was to see that cricket and players are not left disadvantaged . ( toi photo )  new delhi : former indian batsman ajay jadeja has resigned as the coach of the delhi ranji trophy team .  jadeja said he took the decision to quit as his ' opinions or inputs did not matter ' to the delhi and district cricket association ( ddca ) .  " now , it seems the ddca is back to working on its own and does not need the services of anyone appointed organisation seems to have a problem with this way of functioning , " jadeja was quoted , as saying .  the 44-year-old , however , thanked everyone who helped him to get involved with delhi cricket , adding that his sole objective was to see that cricket and players are not left disadvantaged .  on him not accompanying the delhi ranji team to rajasthan , jadeja said , " " i have read in the newspapers that the reason i have not travelled with the team is because amit bhandari has been appointed assistant coach.i would like to clarify that this is not the reason . it is sad to see that once again players are being used to settle personal scores in the ddca . "  jadeja was appointed by nominees of the delhi government , and refused to travel with the team for their opening match of the the 2015-16 ranji trophy season against rajasthan that starts from thursday .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .