IAF's SU-30 fighter pilots gear up for installation of 'game changer ...
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/iafs-su-30-fighter-pilots-gear-up-for-installation-of-game-changer-brahmos-missiles/articleshow/49196212.cms

NEW DELHI : IAF 's Su-30 fighter plane pilots are focusing on beyond visual range combat and night flying capabilities even as they gear up for the installation of the ' game changer ' BrahMos missiles , with a strike range of nearly 300 kms , in the aircraft .  They are also looking forward to the plane 's next generation ' Super 30 ' version which will have advanced avionics .  Explaining the concept of the beyond visual range ( BVR ) fights , senior IAF officials at a forward base close to the border with Pakistan explained that future wars are unlikely to have close combat fights like in wars in 1965 or 1971 .  " Nowadays , the fighter jets are very modernised with state-of-the-art radar systems . What matters now is BVR which means that one can engage with the enemy in air without actually seeing him . Once the enemy is locked in , a BVR missile is fired , " Wing Commander Sharad Sharma , who has clocked more than 1000 hours on the Sukhoi , said . range of about 50-70 kms . But what will truly turn the tide is the integration of the supersonic missile BrahMos with the Sukhoi .  Fighter pilots at the base , one of the newest of the Sukhoi , say that the BrahMos will be game changer .  " Imagine , one can fire a missile nearly 300 kms away from the target . Installations across the border can be targeted by our fighter jets without even crossing the border , " a senior pilot explained .  The first test , a dead weight one , of the BrahMos integrated Sukhoi is likely to take place early next month or even this month-end .  The second test will be by firing a dummy missile while the third and fourth stages of testing will be with actual missile , but without the 200 kg warhead to validate the guidance system and accuracy . Two Sukhois will be used for the tests which will be completed in the next one year .  The fourth generation Sukhois were inducted into the Indian Air Force in 2002 and is the , HAL ( the production agency ) and the Sukhoi Design Bureau in Russia are working together on ' Super 30 ' Project .  " The Super 30 Project will make the aircraft a 4.5 generation one . While there wo n't be modification to the air frame , the planes will be equipped with next generation radar system , software , integrated touch display and a helmet- mounted display , " IAF officials said .  The Sukhois , which have a range of 3,000 kms without mid-air refueling and over 8000 kms with two refuelings , have a capacity to carry up to 12 missiles , including a combination of air-to-air and air-to-surface . The fighter plane can carry up to 32 bombs also .  The Sukhoi fighter aircraft pilots are carrying out intensive training for night operations .  " In 1962 and 1971 wars , our fighters did not have night flying capability . We feel that future wars may be fought in the skies during night time and hence a lot of focus is being given to night flying . Flying at night if , " they said .  BrahMos : DRDO 's supersonic cruise missile  BrahMos : DRDO 's supersonic cruise missile  The Army recently test-fired an advanced version of the 290-km range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile which penetrated and destroyed a " hardened target " in the Pokhran firing range in Rajasthan .  Jointly developed by India and Russia , BrahMos is a precision strike weapon for Army , Navy &amp; Air Force . We take a look at this supersonic missile and its capabilities :  Image : DRDO/BrahMos  290-km range BrahMos  25 Nov , 2013  The 290-km BrahMos flies at a speed of 2.8 Mach and carries a conventional warhead of up to 300 kg . The missile can be launched from multiple platforms including land , sea , sub-sea and air .  Both the Army and Navy have already inducted the missile in service , while the air-version of the weapon is scheduled to be flight tested by the IAF soon .  Image : DRDO/BrahMos  Can be launched from multiple platforms  25 Nov , 2013  According to the mobile launchers , submarines and aircraft against land and sea targets . The missile has a maximum velocity of 2.8 Mach and cruises at altitudes varying from 10 metres to 15 km .  Image : DRDO/BrahMos  Further enhancements underway  25 Nov , 2013  The missile has a maximum velocity of 2.8 Mach and cruises at altitudes varying from 10 metres to 15 km .  Image : DRDO/BrahMos  BrahMos Ship-based system :  25 Nov , 2013  BrahMos supersonic cruise missile is capable of hitting sea based targets beyond radar horizons . " It can be launched in either inclined or vertical configuration based on the type of the ship , " claims DRDO.