Govt revives proposal of Med colleges in Ratlam, Vidisha, Shahdol
http://www.freepressjournal.in/govt-revives-proposal-of-med-colleges-in-ratlam-vidisha-shahdol/725846

Govt revives proposal of Med colleges in Ratlam , Vidisha , Shahdol  BHOPAL : After a gap of more than two years , the state government has revived the proposal to start medical colleges in Ratlam , Vidisha and Shahdol . The Cabinet , on Tuesday , accorded administrative sanction of Rs 749 crore for these colleges .  The government had announced that medical colleges would be opened in these three mid-sized towns in 2013 . Even the ' Bhoomi Pujan ' for the medical college at Vidisha was performed just before the Assembly polls in that year . At that time , it was proposed that the colleges would be built in PPP mode . Since then , the project was in a limbo .  Apparently , the government could not find partners to run these colleges in PPP mode and has now decided to fund them from its own resources .  Administrative sanction of Rs. 259.65 crore was accorded for establishing a 150-seat medical college and 750-bed hospital in Ratlam district . Similarly , revised administrative sanction of Rs. 265.19 crore in Vidisha . Administrative sanction of Rs. 224.31 crore was accorded for a new 100-seat college and 500-bedded hospital in Shahdol district .  In pursuance to Chief Minister 's announcements , the cabinet accorded sanction to introduce new **32;0;TOOLONG courses in five new and three existing colleges . Sanction was also accorded for creation of 146 posts . New colleges would come up in Amadara and Badera in Satna , Ranapur and Meghnagar in Jhabua and Bajna in Ratlam district .  The cabinet endorsed the decision to give admissions in government colleges to students in BSc Nursing course by obtaining bonds from them that they would serve the government for seven years . They would be given appointment after declaration of exam results as per reservation roster .  About author  The Free Press Journal is one of the oldest English Daily newspapers from Mumbai with a heritage of more than 80 years . And yet , The Free Press Journal is a contemporary paper and rooted in current urban realities .