Hope in a Bottle garners Global Awards
http://thestandard.com.ph/business/191354/hope-in-a-bottle-garners-global-awards.html

hope in a bottle garners global awards  hope in a bottle garnered two awards at the recently held global bottled water congress in lisbon , portugal on oct. 21 , 2015 .  hope in a bottle is the purified water company that donates 100-percent of profits to building public school classrooms . represented by the founder , nanette medved-po , at the awards , hib won " best new brand " and " best community initiative " at the 12th annual awarding ceremonies organized by beverage industry consultant zenith international .  " i am grateful to the people at zenith for scouring the globe and finding us . to have an international panel select our effort out of the many very worthy initiatives that have been nominated , honors both the philippines and the work we do at hope , " said medved-po .  friends of hope was started in 2012 in an effort to create a citizen movement for the benefit of public education . to date , hib has built 28 classrooms and is looking to complete another 10 classrooms in department to identify areas that have a classroom deficit . in 2012 , the philippine classroom shortage was estimated at 66,800 classrooms resulting in overcrowding , high drop-out rates and classes being held in temporary structures .  hib is available through retail and food service outlets such as 7-11 , rustan 's , south supermarket , starbucks and krispy kreme .  related stories :  more from this category :  comment disclaimer : reader comments posted on this web site are not in any way endorsed by the standard . comments are views by thestandard.ph readers who exercise their right to free expression and they do not necessarily represent or reflect the position or viewpoint of thestandard.ph . while reserving this publication 's right to delete comments that are deemed offensive , indecent or inconsistent with the standard editorial standards , the standard may not be held liable for any false information posted by readers in this comments section .