'Ageless Asi' leads Road Warriors in clash with Hotshots
http://sports.inquirer.net/198368/ageless-asi-leads-road-warriors-in-clash-with-hotshots

NLEX puts its unbeaten record on the line Sunday when the Road Warriors , led by the ageless Asi Taulava , slug it out with Star in the PBA Philippine Cup eliminations at PhilSports Arena in Pasig .  Only NLEX , Rain or Shine and Alaska have been untouched so far in the young season-opening tournament with the Aces having a chance to win a fourth straight game for the solo lead in a battle against Barangay Ginebra in Dubai at press time .  Alaska edged Mahindra , 98-94 , in the first of two games at Al Wasl Sports Club in Dubai , scoring the squeaker on Saturday before returning to the floor 24 hours later to slug it out with the Gin Kings .  ADVERTISEMENT  The Aces came up with a hot start but needed a strong finish to rise to 3-0 , getting the goods from Calvin Abueva and JV Casio in the stretch as they joined the Elasto Painters in a momentary tie for the lead .  Vic Manuel scored 12 of his 17 points in the first lead , before the Enforcers tied it all up at 87-all only to fall short for the third straight game and remain without a win in the 41st Season .  LA Revilla , the tiny point guard out of La Salle in the UAAP , paced the Enforcers with 19 points and six assists . Boxing icon Manny Pacquiao started out and played close to seven minutes and wound up scoreless .  The Road Warriors have won their first two games behind the leadership of the 42-year-old Taulava , who is expected to have his hands full against the Hotshots loaded frontline that includes the comebacking Ian Sangalang and Marc Pingris in the 5:15 p.m. game .  Star , the champion here two seasons ago , is at 1-2 under new coach Jason Webb but seems to have an obvious edge in manpower against the Road Warriors .  James Yap , the former two-time MVP , Peter June Simon and Mark Barroca will be the main offensive options for the Hotshots , who will be coming off a 101-94 loss to Globalport .  Incidentally , the be slugging it out in the 3 p.m. contest with both looking to stay above .500 .  The Energy will be coming into the game at a high after having brought down the Gin Kings , 82-79 last week in a game that saw them rise from a 21-point first quarter deficit .  Globalport will be an entirely different kind of a foe for the Energy compared to Ginebra , with the Batang Pier a much smaller squad that likes to run at any given opportunity .