Papemelroti: Crafts business the Alejandros built
http://www.rappler.com/business/features/112112-alejandros-craft-business-papemelroti

Welcome to Rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . Rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  MANILA , Philippines -- Corit Alejandro , the family matriarch , was always drawn to discarded things . She fashioned piggy banks out of empty bottles for the children , and stuffed toys out of fabric scraps . Her husband , Benny Alejandro , then peddled the latter to his officemates at Procter &amp; Gamble .  In 1967 , the Alejandros moved to their new home on the second floor of 288 Tomas Morato Avenue , Quezon City , and below it , the family 's queen of crafts set up shop . The place invited the curious with a " ring the bell to come in " sign . At first , customers were shocked to find nothing except the stuffed toys and some other merchandise that sat by the display window .  But with Corit 's touch , The store , initially funded by Benny 's earnings and the couple 's savings , came to life with figurines , decoupage , and paper things -- made through the collaboration of the husband , the wife , and their 5 kids : Patsy , Peggy , Meldy , Robert , and Tina .  The siblings elected the business to be called Papemelroti , formed by the first syllable of each of their names . Their dad said , " How can it be successful if people ca n't even pronounce the name , and ca n't remember ? "  Bootstrapping a crafts business  Forty-eight years later , the country 's hobbyists are reclaiming the commercial space for specialty arts and crafts , and Papemelroti stands out with its core offerings of handmade designs and concepts .  Its 17 stores across Mega Manila and Pampanga are sources of home , school , office , personal , and giveaway objects . It sells curios from woodcarving to jewelry , from metal craft to desk essentials .  The siblings are now running the family business with almost 5 .  Patricia " Patsy " Paterno says that as chief operating officer , she handles the " non-artistic " aspects such as finances . Peggy and Meldy , also designers , navigate human resources and merchandising .  The brand proudly carries the works of their brother Robert , award-winning graphic artist and former host of the television show Art is Kool . E-commerce , social media , and store displays are left in the hands of the youngest Tina , who used to be a floor-squatting , purchase-wrapping salesgirl in their second shop in Cubao 's Ali Mall .  Paterno admits that they have gotten many things wrong along the way . Nobody in the family had a business background in the beginning . Even so , Benny and Corit insisted that they would not borrow capital from the bank . " My mom was a good saver , " she recalled .  " What she earned , she would use to buy things like dolls in Divisoria to make dresses for . Eventually , when there were more customers , my dad would buy samples from and Christmas decor . "  Their mother balanced creativity with marketing determination . " When we made figurines , my mom would bring a sample in her bag , and we would visit stores in Makati City like Erehwon and Old Storehouse and Predictions , and she would show it to the owners . They were our first wholesale customers , I think . They liked how the figurines looked really crude and handmade , " shared Paterno .  Their father took a course on ceramics . Copper plaques of horses also piqued his curiosity , so he also learned how to make them look antique . He would be very happy if one of the pieces sold , as he sold it " very expensive . "  Selling self-expression , emotional connection  Papemelroti 's growth can be traced back to its unique creations , the family 's handiwork that can not be found elsewhere in the world . It also developed a cult following among people who were moved by the inspirational text inscribed on the products .  The posters and positive sayings around the separating , according to Paterno .  There is also the environmental thrust that underlies the business . " I support sustainable practices and technologies that promote the preservation of the environment . Because of this , I prefer environment-friendly products , " said Sheila Austero , an environmental engineer who has been a Papemelroti customer for around 10 years .  Finishing her postgraduate studies in the University of the Philippines , Austero jots down notes from journal articles she reads , as well as reminders and notes regarding experiments , in a Papemelroti notebook she received from a friend .  For almost half a century , the Alejandros have faced numerous challenges in starting and sustaining the business . But they have also witnessed their successes trickle down to others , even if this was not their intention at first .  Paterno remembers Connie , her sister Tina 's then-nanny . " She would also help out , and now she still works with us as the manager of our factory in Bulacan . We had another helper , Alice , and she also still works with with suppliers and distributors alike , has helped Papemelroti gain a wider acceptance in the Philippines . Now , Paterno said she is studying how to license their products to companies abroad .  Three of Benny and Corit 's grandchildren have jumped in to create designs catering to a new generation -- Paterno 's son and her niece , who are still studying , and Elyse , another niece who is a graphic design graduate from UP .  Paterno also hints at a new concept to watch out for in their main branch on Roces Avenue , Quezon City . " We will put up a gallery , a DIY section , and we will also develop workshops . We are also putting a new system into place which will help us grow , " she explained .  Perhaps Papemelroti is plotting its continuity for the next 50 years , or for as long as there will be discarded things to be fashioned into useful or wondrous objects .  " I have always said that being in business is an expression of the best of yourself , our business will be unique as well , " related Paterno .  " We can not just copy other businesses . We always have to innovate and grow , always have new things and new ideas . We should keep fresh and relevant . " -- Rappler.com  Shadz Loresco is a freelance business writer for both online and print . Follow her on Twitter @shadzloresco .  Would you like to share your vote ?  Welcome to Rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . Rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .