Marcos on Yolanda rehab: Too little, too late
http://www.rappler.com/nation/112079-marcos-yolanda-rehab-too-little-too-late

Welcome to Rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . Rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  TACLOBAN CITY , Philippines -- Senator Ferdinand " Bongbong " Marcos Jr called on the government to " have mercy on the poor " as he issued a stinging criticism of the government 's slow rehabilitation program for victims of Super Typhoon Yolanda ( Haiyan ) .  On the second anniversary of the typhoon on Sunday , November 8 , Marcos returned to his mother 's home province of Leyte , and joined opposition figures in commemorative events .  A vice presidential bet , Marcos said the Aquino administration 's rehabilitation efforts for storm-hit areas especially Tacloban , ground zero of the typhoon , have been " very little , very late . "  ( I hope they have mercy on the poor . That is all that we are considering , how to help the poor . ) Mass at the Tacloban Astrodome , which became the refuge of evacuees at the height of the 2013 disaster . The storm killed over 6,000 and left thousands homeless as storm surges and strong wind flattened Tacloban , the commercial hub of the region .  The senator said lawmakers like himself are not even informed where the billions in pesos allocated for Yolanda victims went , and how this was spent .  " We do not have an accounting , an assessment , a report , nothing . They just give these vague answers , " Marcos said .  The budget department said that of the P150 billion ( $3.195 billion ) required for rehabilitation , P93.87 billion ( $1.998 billion ) was released . The balance of P10.2 billion ( $217.20 million ) will be released this November , and the remaining P46 billion ( $979.50 million ) is in the budget for 2016 .  Marcos also rejected the pronouncement of the National Economic and Development Authority ( NEDA ) that the rehabilitation program is 51% complete , based on the plan of former Rehabilitation Secretary masterplan of Ping Lacson , on the ground what was completed is still far from 51% . )  As an example , Marcos cited National Housing Authority figures for housing where he said only 6% of permanent shelter has been constructed .  " There are still thousands of people who are homeless . Many are still waiting for the government 's promise . Many do not know where are the funds donated , including from our overseas Filipino workers , aid agencies , until now , the government agencies do not want to give us an answer . Many remain victims , waiting for assistance , " he said .  Asked how he will help Yolanda victims if he wins as vice president , Marcos said he will " clarify what exactly the government intends to do . "  " Let 's find out how much money is given , where is it , what is it going to be used for and when will it be finally spent to help Yolanda victims . "  Aquino critics unite ?  Marcos joined a commemorative walk early his running mate , Senator Gregorio Honasan II . Marcos ' cousin , Leyte Representative Martin Romualdez , was also at the event .  Rivals for the vice presidency , Marcos and Honasan said the event was not political , and only meant to highlight the plight of the Yolanda victims .  Honasan said : " Relief operations , disaster risk reduction management , you ca n't say it 's an opposition effort , or an administration effort . Everyone who can help should join so we can conduct a performance audit of what has been done . "  Binay 's vice presidential bet agreed with Marcos that the government failed to provide an accounting of the donations and budget allocated for Yolanda .  " We 're moving towards line-item budgeting . Let 's ensure tracking , auditing and accounting mechanisms are in place because just like previous issues , this is not a question of wasted resources . It 's a breakdown of control systems . It 's a good thing this assessment is happening on the eve of budget deliberations , " said Honasan . he went around Leyte to see how the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Law can be improved . The senator was among the authors of the law .  Honasan said he was open to consider the proposal of several senators to create a permanent agency handling disasters to replace the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council ( NDRRMC ) , now under the defense department .  " But it will depend on the resources available , the political , the financial , logistical cost of adding another bureaucracy but that 's something we can seriously consider , " he said .  Romualdez though filed a bill to push for a separate department handling disasters . The senatorial candidate said that the NDRRMC is just an ad hoc council while social welfare officials are busy handling other programs of their own department .  Under Romualdez 's plan , the department for disaster risk reduction will be headed by a secretary , and will have its own budget . Presidential bet Senator Grace Poe , and vice presidential candidate Senator Alan Peter Cayetano filed similar proposals . need for the agency .  " What happens is NDRRMC would just coordinate a supplemental budget that we would be tasked in Congress to pass . Depending on how grave the calamity is , we will get money from different sources to fund a rehab plan made only after one tragedy . We need a more proactive stance and a department for that purpose . I think it 's high time we borrow from best practices . " -- Rappler.com  Would you like to share your vote ?  Welcome to Rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . Rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .