11 memorable moments in the Philippine art scene in 2014
http://www.interaksyon.com/lifestyle/10-memorable-moments-in-the-philippine-art-scene-in-2014

though controversy-ridden , the local art scene , in all its forms , was busy in 2014 .  the year 2014 has been vibrant for the philippine art scene , with various local art fairs showcasing filipino talents that are world-class in caliber , different art awards honoring established and emerging artists , traveling exhibitions , a parade of the most sought-after theater acts in the world being staged locally , as well as international authors visiting the country .  while everything might seem rosy , certain controversies emerged as well , and sadly , the country has lost important pillars of the arts .  here are 10 highlights of the philippine art scene in 2014 :  1 . works of frida kahlo , diego rivera , and other latin american artist at ayala museum .  mexican artist frida kahlo 's ' my dress hangs here ' ( left ) is on display at the ayala museum as part of the ' mexico : fantastic identity ' exhibition . on the right are black and white photos of the painting and portrait considered as the " world 's most important private collection of latin american art , " important works of latin american artists including frida kahlo and diego rivera was lent to ayala museum . the exhibit , composed of 60 modern and contemporary pieces , entitled mexico : fantastic identity , 20th century masterpieces , was a first in asia .  the philippine literary festival , the yearly gathering of writers , publishers , and other members of the local literary community , featured international authors amy tan and chang rae lee this year . their presence attracted a large crowd to attend their respective writer 's talks . both authors impressed the literary circle with their inspiring talks : lee dwelled on " doing it for the love of writing " while tan talked about how she survived being a writer .  3 . national artists honored . ninety-year old national artist for literature francisco sionil jose was honored in december by the senate through the senate resolution no. 104 , which " recognizes his contribution to literature and journalism and his perseverance to instill national pride through visual arts federico aguilar alcuaz was honored by the manila pavilion hotel through the unveiling of the artist 's two rare pantings , which can be seen at the foyer of the hotel 's aguilar alcuaz rooms . the late alcuaz was a famous resident of the hotel .  4 . art fairs in town . big art fairs that drew thousands of crowds have made their mark this year . aiming for the international scene , manilart , known to showcase the best works in the philippine contemporary art scene , tied up with asia 's premiere lifestyle and design event , the manila fame .  another contemporary art fair , art fair philippines , had attracted thousands of visitors as well with its indoor and outdoor exhibitions .  5 . auctions everywhere . artworks of prominent filipino artists including ang kiukok , jose joya , bencab , and vicente manansala , as well as other contemporary artists , were sold off for millions of pesos in an auction , the important philippineart sale held in march by salcedo auctions , reported the philippine star .  's family was sold at php4,672,000 ; joya 's pastures was sold at php3,036,800 ; and manansala 's untitled ( sabungero ) was sold at php2,219,200 .  salcedo auctions also introduced other rare finds such as a first-edition noli me tangere by dr. jose rizal in a two-day auction eventheld in september .  the art community was also saddened by the passing away of two of its pillars . national artist for music , dr francisco feliciano , who is known for his committed promotion of liturgical music not just in the philippines but in asia and the world , died at 73 on september 19 . the 73-year old national artist for music was an accomplished conductor , composer , and educator .  another loss was national artist for visual arts , abdulmari imao , who died at the age of 78 last december 16 . hailing from sulu , imao is a known sculptor , painter , photographer , ceramist , documentary film maker , cultural researcher , writer , and articulator of philippine muslim art and culture .  the theater scene started 2014 with was well-received by the filipino audience . concluding the year was another hit musical , considered as broadway 's second longest running musical , chicago . meanwhile , the all-filipino production of the tony award-winning musical priscilla queen of the desert made waves at resorts world manila and was later brought to singapore where it received nightly standing ovations for its cast members ' excellent performances . good thing , the same production made a homecoming at the newport theater and showed how it wowed its international audience .  critically acclaimed noli me tangere : the opera also took the the theater spotlight , which featured renowned filipino opera singers .  8 . controversy over the authenticity of a juan luna painting . the authenticity of the painting the discovery : a scene from a stage play by juan luna was questioned after a catalogue from a french art auction in 2012 surfaced and showed the similar painting but attributed to a european artist named p. ribera . however , known juan luna expert , professor santiago " jak " albano pilar , who authenticated the said painting , was truly a juan luna .  according to pilar , the auction house , drouot-richelieu , should be held accountable while the client who sold the painting to a peer , who in turn sold the second time should settle the matter themselves .  9 . visual , literary , and performing arts awards . artists in different fields like the visual arts , literature , and performance have been recognized in various awarding ceremonies held this year .  the ateneo art awards recognized young contemporary artists ; while the palanca awards honored established and budding writers in its annual ceremony . the gawad buhay awards , a local version of tony awards , recognized outstanding stage performances from the previous year .  10 . nora aunor as the " people 's artist "  nora aunor gives an emotional speech as she receives the tunay na alagad ng sining honor from the qc public school teachers association in august 2014 . photo by bernard testa , interaksyon.com .  apart from being proclaimed as the " people 's artist " by various sectors , aunor won , tunay na alagad ng sining ( true artist ) from the quezon city public school teachers association , and pambansang artista ng mamamayan from the polytechnic university of the philippines .  that triumphant moment when prima ballerina lisa macuja-elizalde appeared onstage shimmering in her gold dress and glowing because of pure joy while the audience gave her a standing ovation after a powerful performance in her 50th birthday concert , in october last year . one priceless celebration .  the one-night only show affirmed the dance artist 's 30 year-strong career , exceptional talent , and tenacity to sustain the relevance and high standard of the classical dance in the country . the once kirov ballet soloist kept the audience in awe as she danced with amazing stamina and a palpable perfection of technique . besides her sterling performance , students and scholars from ballet manila , which she founded in 1995 , also received applause from the crowd .