INKCANTO | Post appropriately, market yourself: 8 goals to achieve ...
http://www.interaksyon.com/lifestyle/inkcanto-post-appropriately-market-yourself-8-goals-to-achieve-in-2015

it 's a new year and , in keeping with the spirit of new beginnings , here are inkcanto 's resolutions that , when followed properly , will result in peace , prosperity , and well-being for all . that sentence will be followed by three volumes of hard-bound , encyclopedic caveats that are due for publication in 2016 . in the meantime , just pretend that when it comes to credibility , i am really just winging it right now .  1 . be kinder and more generous -- and pay it forward . there more than 100 million filipinos in this country . if even half of that number did an act of kindness in one day that would mean 50 million good deeds a day . would n't that change our very atmosphere ?  we all go through hardships and many times , out of concern for personal survival , we can tend to think only of ourselves and then we try and get ahead -- with a promotion , with a project , with a little bit of corruption , etc. mistake , filipinos can be kind and generous and many of us are : but we are also survivors who will first take care of kith and kin first over strangers . that 's why our sense of civic duty is weak . in practice , we care more about relatives than the nation as a whole .  that 's mainly because -- and i 've suspected this for the longest time -- filipinos are survivors first of all . we take care of our own first because clan survival is a priority . this also explains why our social values are split -- we follow different and often conflicting sets of values in our public and private lives .  we learned to be survivors after we were occupied by foreign powers , from spain to the americans , to the japanese . we learned to look maintain an image of kowtowing to our oppressors while trying to squeeze some rebellious , seditious action through the cracks and hidden corners .  we learned to behave differently in public , where official authority is watching over us , and short , we are perpetually naughty teen-agers . there are few , if any , filipino grown-ups .  still , let 's all try to grow up and be true filipinos caring for our nation . we can start by being kind and generous to others beyond our circle of kin .  2 . be friendlier on social media . enough with the snark and the hate . remember that photo of dilg sec . mar roxas showing how his motorcycle fell on its side -- he was lucky that we able to put an arm down and break his fall . otherwise , it would have been a serious face-plant on muddy gravel . then all these people on social media started complaining that sec . roxas was n't wearing a helmet .  first of all , i seriously doubt that a helmet is a wise thing to wear when you 're riding through a hilly , forested area . you 'll need all your senses , especially hearing , when you travel through that terrain . a helmet limits your senses . second , what the his job and got into an accident . give him a break .  also , let 's stop getting on newlyweds dingdong dantes and marian rivera 's case about how much they spent for their wedding ( allegedly p100 million ) . it 's their money , it 's their marriage , and it 's their life . they did n't spend taxpayers ' money for it .  besides , marian rivera really does look enchanting in her wedding dress -- all p7 million worth of it . looking at her photo , i realized that her million-peso wedding dress is 80 percent similar to my wife 's wedding gown -- which i bought in the late 1990s for p13,000 and paid for in installments for one whole year on a newspaper reporter 's salary .  ( my wife has strictly warned me not to post comparison photos of her and marian wearing their respective wedding dresses . )  a wedding is a woman 's chance to feel like a princess or a queen for a day , and i would never , ever get between that author j.r.r. tolkien writes , " come not between the nazgul and his ( or her ) prey . " that 's very good marital advice .  photo by robert vinas , malacanang photo bureau .  3 . post appropriately on the internet . we 've all seen internet posts that are way , way too much information . and there are others like this :  no good can come out when the words " husband and i " , " experimenting " , and " horse " appear in one paragraph . ( image source : http : **137;434;toolong ) so please use common sense and social etiquette when posting on social media .  5 . market yourself , seriously . you may have some pretty serious talent -- for whatever : baking , singing , being deathly annoying , dancing , knitting , organizing charities , managing relief operations , or mixed martial arts , etc. -- but if nobody knows you exist , then you wo n't be able to maximize the benefits that you -- and just as important , other people -- if your fist meeting someone 's jaw in an mma match is a " benefit " . )  take australian poet lang leav , for example . with 74,000 followers on social media , her best-selling books of poetry are proof that even poets can take advantage of a little marketing buzz .  as somebody once said -- i think it was me -- to someone who probably was n't listening : " the difference between capitalism and communism is marketing . now , hie thee off to a nunnery . "  6 . learn old stuff and new stuff .  that tweet may have been sarcastic but what if it was serious ? what if the guy really thinks that kanye west had really collaborated on the song , " only one " with " newcomer " paul mccartney ?  whether we 're young or old , it pays to keep learning things -- whether that knowledge is in the present or from the past . once , someone asked me if i " pirated " books . i replied :  " you mean ? i did that a few times but nowadays i 'm too far away from book-loving friends who can lend me books . " my friend told me : " i meant if you ever downloaded bootleg copies of e-books . from the internet . "  oh ... kay . so that dates me . surely , this is how behind i am when it comes to the thieving of intellectual property .  on the other hand , i 'm happy , for example , that my kids also love listening to good music from decades past . believe it or not , kids , there 's good music from decades ago , really good music that does not have " booty " as a lyric , unless it 's a song about real , live pirates who sailed on ships and talked like they had emphysema .  so i told my friend that i will learn to download an e-book . " tapos , ipa-seroks mo , " she said , laughing her head off .  7 . be fashionable -- by not copying fashionable people style by wearing what other fashionable people wear ? do n't do that . wear what you feel like and make it look good in your own way . that 's pretty tricky -- which is why it 's always safer to imitate others fashion-wise . still , if you have enough imagination and creativity -- not to mention either sheer guts or a genetic lack of shame -- you can be stylish on your own terms .  many people who are legally blind ; have alzheimer 's ; or delusional , have told inkcanto that he looks like french actor alain delon in a trench coat . still , that red tie is just cheap and disgusting -- but less boring than delon 's .  8 . be grateful , always . none of us will get out of this world alive -- and none of us will truly get anywhere worthwhile without help from others . the year 2014 was a less than stellar year for me on several areas of life and i would not have survived sane and alive without them . i promise to .  as germany 's great romantic poet rainer maria rilke wrote , " we are all angels with but one wing and can only fly by holding hands and therefore , let us beware which hand we use to scratch our noses or behinds , lest we fall from a great height , oh , oh , oh . "