Sri Lanka leader faces election battle as war effect wanes
http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/662642/sri-lanka-leader-faces-election-battle-as-war-effect-wanes

January 6th , 2015 06:18 PM  Sri Lanka President Mahinda Rajapaksa addresses to supporters as he attends an election rally in the Colombo suburb of Piliyandala on January 5 . AFP PHOTO  COLOMBO , Sri Lanka -- Sri Lanka 's President Mahinda Rajapaksa will face an unprecedented challenge from a newly galvanized opposition when he seeks reelection this week , five years after his crushing military victory over Tamil guerrillas .  South Asia 's longest-serving leader had appeared politically invincible after his forces crushed the Tamil Tigers in 2009 , ending a decades-long conflict and ushering in a new era of prosperity for the island nation .  Rajapaksa won a landslide election victory in 2010 , but critics say the 69-year-old has failed to bring about reconciliation with Sri Lanka 's Tamil minority in the years that followed .  ADVERTISEMENT  His second term has been dogged by accusations of corruption , including undermining the independence of the judiciary and lining the pockets of political cronies through lucrative contracts .  The surprise decision of his Health Minister Maithripala Sirisena to defect candidate has turned what might have been a walk-over into a real contest .  Political commentator Victor Ivan said the low-profile Sirisena had become a symbol of simmering discontent over corruption .  " He ( Rajapaksa ) failed to ensure reconciliation , " Ivan told AFP .  " His focus was in mega-highways and ports . That was good for GDP growth , but not enough to heal a society wounded by decades of conflict . "  Sri Lanka 's economy has grown by an annual average of over seven percent since the war ended , partly thanks to hefty investment from close Rajapaksa ally China .  But the opposition says Chinese contractors have employed few local people , and household incomes have not kept pace with national growth rates .  Opposition parties including the main Tamil party have rallied behind Sirisena , a 63-year-old farmer-turned-politician who is from the majority Sinhalese community .  Populist measures  While he still has support among Sinhalese voters , Rajapaksa is widely detested by members of the country 's biggest minority , who account for 13 percent bloc .  The president has taken drastic measures to shore up support , slashing fuel prices , cutting water and electricity tariffs and giving subsidized motorcycles and hefty pay increases to 1.6 million public servants .  Rajapaksa has also promised a judicial inquiry into allegations that his troops killed 40,000 Tamil civilians at the end of the civil war , although he still refuses to cooperate with a UN-mandated investigation .  Last week he told voters in the Tamil-dominated northern peninsula of Jaffna that he was committed to improving their livelihoods , listing a series of infrastructure projects in the war-ravaged region .  Describing himself as the " known devil , " the president urged people not to vote for the " unknown " Sirisena . " I am the known devil , so please vote for me , " he said through a translator .  Tamils as king-makers  The Tamils could be king-makers if the majority Sinhalese constituency is split down the middle between Rajapaksa and Sirisena .  " We will vote for Sirisena not because we like him , but because we company executive Ratnavale Chandrasekaran .  Rajapaksa called snap elections two years ahead of schedule in the hope of preempting an opposition fight-back .  Close associates say the timing was decided partly on advice given by his personal astrologer .  The 69-year-old , who has been accused of growing authoritarianism , had removed the two-term limit on the presidency and given himself more powers soon after winning a second term in 2010 .  Sirisena 's defection was carefully choreographed by Rajapaksa 's bete noire , former President Chandrika Kumaratunga , who returned to politics after a nine-year retirement , and has split the ruling party .  A hardline party of Sinhalese Buddhist monks that had cheered Rajapaksa 's refusal to bow to an international probe defected to the opposition in November , accusing him of unprecedented corruption and nepotism .  The president 's eldest brother Chamal is speaker of parliament , another brother Basil is economic development minister while a third , Gotabhaya , serves as the defense secretary .  Other family members dominate state institutions and government-owned companies , with the Rajapaksa tentacles extending host of ministerial portfolios including finance , ports and highways .  The progovernment media are predicting a close fight , while diplomats in Colombo say they sense a shift in favor of the opposition .  Last week one of Sirisena 's top supporters accused the government of deploying thousands of troops to Tamil-majority areas as part of a strategy to intimidate voters against backing Rajapaksa 's main challenger .  The military has denied accusations of campaigning for Rajapaksa .  As signs of opposition strength grew , the privately-run Sunday Times newspaper questioned the wisdom of Rajapaksa 's decision to call a snap election .  " It was his own calling , " the paper said . " President Mahinda Rajapaksa for once goes as the underdog. "