CDC named best social enterprise
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/pampanga/local-news/2015/04/01/cdc-named-best-social-enterprise-400712

CDC named best social enterprise  CDC named best social enterprise  CLARK FREEPORT , Pampanga -- For implementing various programs related to social responsibility , the Clark Development Corporation ( CDC ) was named best social enterprise in the international Golden Globe Tigers Award .  Under the organization award category on social innovation , the state-run corporation bagged the Best Social Enterprise for its corporate social responsibility ( CSR ) innovative projects .  Dr. R.L. Bhatia , founder of World CSR Day , awarded the certificate and trophy to Angelo Lopez , manager of CDC external affairs department , at the Prince Hotel and Residences in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia on March 25 .  The awarding ceremony was part of a three-day World Marketing Summit ( WMS ) organized in conjunction with Chief Marketing Officer ( CMO ) Asia and World CSR Day .  The event was hosted by the Asian Confederation of Businesses and endorsed by CMO Asia , Thought Leaders and Stars of the Industry Group .  As a catalyst of economic growth and development , the CDC has **28;634;TOOLONG partnerships , community services and sports .  Beneficiaries of CDC 's CSR programs include underprivileged inhabitants of the nearby cities of Angeles and Mabalacat , and the towns of Capas , Bamban and Porac .  CDC initiated a job fair to ensure the opportunities for persons with disabilities ( PWDs ) and indigenous peoples ( IPs ) .  Investors in Clark are requested to sign a commitment to hire PWDs and IPs in their workforce .  Tugade , together with the CDC management team and board of directors , is tapping the capabilities and talents of the marginalized sectors of the community through a Specialized Training and Employment Program for Underprivileged Persons ( STEP-UP ) .  STEP-UP provides skills training and vocational courses for the youth to meet hiring standards of industries inside the Freeport .  Encouraging the spirit of entrepreneurship among the marginalized sectors of society , the CDC distributed several " Pangkabuhayan Karts " .  Latest issues of Sun.Star Pampanga also available on your mobile phones , laptops , and tablets . Subscribe to our digital editions at epaper.sunstar.com.ph and get welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates . Sun.Star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  Forum rules : Do not use obscenity . Some words have been banned . Stick to the topic . Do not veer away from the discussion . Be coherent and respectful . Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS !