Dacawi: Remembering Manny
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/baguio/opinion/2015/04/01/dacawi-remembering-manny-400735

dacawi : remembering manny  dacawi : remembering manny  ( this reprint of a piece written after a visit to two indigenous community projects in the cordillera is a tribute to forester manuel pogeyed , a friend and colleague in the environmental field who understood the importance of village involvement in the preservation of the mossy forests of the cordillera . it is a toast to his initiative and respect for indigenous knowledge that sustained our cordillera mossy forests for generations as the life-blood of lowland agriculture and power generation in northern philippines . manny passed on recently at 54. - rd )  village leader paul casiwan said they found four types of acorns in the remaining mossy forests . he sounded like he was trying to hide his excitement over the find . the acorns sounded like coffee beans as he poured them out of jute sacks and into iron buckets .  his group had spent days gathering and sorting them according to shape , texture , and size and variety .  they were of four sizes . the three smaller ones pins at the tip and looking like light , shiny chocolate nuggets . the biggest was round , like a dull chestnut . casiwan cracked a shell , popped the kernel into his mouth and chomped . he cracked another and offered the meat to visitors . it was hard , with an astringent taste like betel nut .  acorns are basic food for birds and other animals that enrich the biodiversity of the mossy forest , he said .  fellow worker dominga baliaga raked her hands into one of the aggregate piles , looking for those with tiny , whitish sprouts that must and damp coaxed out of their shells -- through the pins . contrasted with the dominant color of chestnut , those with shoots were easy to spot .  soon the germinating seeds will be sown in pots in tree nurseries they had carved and flattened out of steep mountainsides overlooking tributaries of the abra river . when their leaves develop , they will be replanted in open spaces to expand the vanishing mossy forest cover of agawa .  until they started picking and in northwestern besao town , mt . province , took for granted what their mossy forests contain . they now have to have an eye for detail to be able to properly identify the different tree species , together with the herbs and plants they 'll have to propagate as source of tribal medicine .  the propagation of " payen " ( the native name for oak ) , " da-il " ( petroleum nut ) and other mossy forest species was part of a forest biodiversity project a few years back for agawa and the adjoining barangays of ambagiw , gueday and lacma-an in besao .  months later , a women 's group in bayyo barangay in the capital town of bontoc also launched a similar community-based forest biodiversity project . it was concentrated in mt . polis , the fragile water source for several towns in mt . province and ifugao that is also watershed of the chico river flowing into the rice lands of the cagayan valley .  the two projects scheduled for two to three years were supported by the small grants program of forester manny pogeyed , now the provincial environment officer of mt province , set in motion the projects by helping the two communities conceive and draft the proposals .  earlier , pogeyed , then the head of the community environment and natural resources office in sabangan , mt . province , also mobilized the northern barangays of sagada town for a headwaters enhancement project , also in a tie-up with sgp-undp .  he admitted that regular government outlays for forestry programs are very limited and spread too thin , prompting the need to tap other support institutions for the preservation of the mossy forests .  until now , the mossy and pine forests that are unique to the village and most of the cordilleras have been overlooked in the national forestry master plan . conservation efforts are focused more on the common tropical foliage of these islands , from the mangrove to the dipterocarp and molave found up to 800 meters above sea level .  unlike the lower forests , the dwindling pine and mossy forests have been classified only for protection , without provisions for reforestation forests , make the cordillera the vital watershed cradle of northern luzon , the source of water that is the lifeblood of the electric dams and the lowland farms .  " mossy forest conservation and development had not been given attention by development agencies in the past , " noted the agawa project paper . " the ecological and scientific significance of this type of ( forest ) , with its diverse vegetation endemic in a highland environment , is worth providing a conservation push at this point in time . "  as the headwaters , the mossy forest acts like a sponge that gradually releases rainwater into the tributaries of river systems . while it 's damp condition insulates it from heat , its natural elevation immediately above or beside the easily combustible pine stands makes it partly vulnerable to fires .  " forest fires prevalent during the dry season creep into the edges of the mossy forest , " the bayyo project noted .  the bayyo women also pointed out that the expansion through regeneration of pine stands within areas formerly covered by oak and  this has something to do with allelopathy , the nature of pine to exude resin toxic to other species , enabling it to spread and dominate areas earlier cleared by fires or for swidden farms . this is evident along the mountainsides above the talubin river towards bayyo where pine has taken over mountaintops and areas once covered by mossy forests . some surviving oaks are limited to the waterway gullies or below the invasive conifer stands .  for generations , traditional village forest management systems , rather than state policies that sometimes clash with time-tested tribal laws , protected the integrity of the pine and the dwarf oak forests . like the mossy forest , however , these indigenous practices that were the original models of community-based resource management are also vanishing .  the two projects in agawa and bayyo , therefore , were anchored on the revival and documentation of these traditional practices , together with the folk wisdom on medicinal species .  in one of the bayyo nurseries , diana peta-ul and alicia wayasen showed visitors several types of mountain tea which they claim called " dumranoh " , the bark of which is usually dried into " humang " , grated and drank as a cure for fever and bum stomach .  while doing site visits for the projects , pogeyed heard more revealing insights , among them a common observation of hunters and village elders who come across snakes battling forest rats .  " they noticed that each time the rat is bitten , it runs to a certain tree , digs its teeth into the bark and returns to continue the fight . " ( to be continued )  latest issues of sun.star baguio also available on your mobile phones , laptops , and tablets . subscribe to our digital editions at epaper.sunstar.com.ph and get a free seven-day trial .  disclaimer : sun.star website welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the sun.star management and its affiliates . sun.star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  forum rules : do stick to the topic . do not veer away from the discussion . be coherent and respectful . do not shout or use capital letters !