Fighters captured in Ukraine admit to serving in Russia's army - OSCE
http://www.rappler.com/world/regions/europe/93981-osce-fighters-ukraine-admit-serving-russia-army

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  captured . alexander alexandrov lies on a bed at a hospital in kiev , ukraine , 19 may 2015 . ukraine claims that alexandrov is one of two russian soldiers captured in eastern ukraine . file photo by roman pilipey/epa  kiev , ukraine -- european mediators in the ukrainian crisis said thursday that two men captured by kiev 's troops had confessed to being members of the russian armed forces sent in to back up pro-moscow separatist fighters .  the revelation by the organization for security and co-operation in europe ( osce ) provides some of the strongest independent evidence to date of russian president vladimir putin 's direct involvement in the 13-month war in the neighboring nation .  kiev and its western allies have long accused the kremlin of covertly coordinating the loosely organized rebel units ' tactics their fight against ukraine 's pro-western government .  russia denies the allegations and says the claims are part of a us-led campaign to topple putin and contain russia 's regional interests .  the osce said the two wounded servicemen said in an interview conducted at kiev 's military hospital that they were armed when wounded and taken prisoner by ukrainian government forces in the separatist eastern province of lugansk on saturday .  " both individuals claimed that they were members of a unit of the armed forces of the russian federation . they claimed that they were on a reconnaissance mission . they were armed but had no orders to attack , " the security body said in a report .  " one of them said he had received orders from his military unit to go to ukraine ; he was to ' rotate ' after three months . both of them said they had been to ukraine ' on missions ' before , " the osce added .  there was no initial response to the findings from either the kremlin or russia 's foreign ministry as saying that both russians " claimed that they used to serve in a unit of the russian armed forces . "  ukraine has charged the captured men -- identified as captain yevgeny yerofeyev and sergeant aleksander aleksandrov -- with involvement in " terrorist activity " and promised to release them should they fully confess during a public trial .  russian state tv aired an interview with aleksandrov 's wife on wednesday saying that the 28-year-old professional soldier had quit his army reconnaissance unit in december .  putin has described russians discovered fighting in ukraine as either " volunteers " or off-duty soldiers who crossed into the war zone out of patriotic pride and to take on the far-right extremists who moscow claims are running kiev .  burning bridges  the ukraine crisis has chilled moscow 's ties with washington to a degree last seen in the soviet era and driven the new pro-western leadership in kiev to treat russia as an existential threat .  volunteers ? yevgeny yerofeyev lies on a bed at a hospital in kiev , ukraine , 19 may 2015 . ukraine in eastern ukraine . file photo by roman pilipey/epa  kiev lawmakers on thursday annulled 5 crucial security agreements with moscow that had allowed russia to transport troops to a separatist region of moldova and purchase weapons that are only produced in ukraine .  but thursday 's decision means that legislative support from ukraine 's dominant nationalist and pro-european parties would be required before such cooperation could resume once the separatist conflict is resolved .  " the chances of ukraine and russia resuming the type of military and technological cooperation that they enjoyed just a few years ago appear highly unlikely in the mid-term perspective , " independent military analyst mykhaylo pashkov said .  one of the cancelled agreements notably allowed moscow to send peacekeeping forces across ukraine to moldova 's russian-speaking transdniester region .  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) @