Avon sticks to direct-selling but dips toes in e-commerce
http://www.bworldonline.com/weekender/content.php?id=113410

marketing world  avon sticks to direct-selling but dips toes in e-commerce  avon philippines is built on direct-selling , but company officials shared recently that the cosmetics and lingerie brand is considering more forays into online retail .  starting this year , avon has put its collections up for view on its social media accounts . beyond that , however , it does not yet offer the end-to-end kind of online shopping experience , complete with delivery and payment options . instead , it offers customers a digital version of its twice-a-month brochures , then connects them with an avon representative once they 've decided on a purchase .  " direct-selling continues to be relevant even with the advent of online shopping ; there 's still that ' heart-to-heart ' thing that customers are really looking for , " jean reyes , avon head of marketing ( southeast asia ) , told businessworld on july 29 , during the lauch of the brand 's fall/winter intimates collection .  the company has , however , tested the e-commerce waters by putting some of its we selected some items for testing , so if ever it 's something we can look at , we 're discussing it , " emie aguilar-nierves , avon acting general manager and executive director for sales and channel operations , also told businessworld during the launch . she , too , affirmed that avon is still very much a direct-selling company .  new face , new lineat the launch , avon also introduced its new intimate apparel endorser , singer/actress jennylyn mercado , who joins the likes of angel locsin and kathryn bernardo , among others .  ms. mercado was described in the press statement as " an empowered and confident woman " exuding the " confidence , beauty and sense of purpose and empowerment " the company stands for .  the collection , meanwhile , features prints in " really trendy colors , " such as deep greens , influenced by the international runway .  ms. nierves said that avon continues to aggressively market its brand to sustain its position as one of the market leaders in the underwear sector in the country . currently , .  " since the first time we introduced avon fashion , it has had the asian fit , " the executive director also said .  a large part of avon 's marketing strategy is keeping an in-house designer for its prints . the challenge lies in making their customers buy just one or two more brassieres when they already have several . avon 's exclusive prints are said to make all the difference . -- z.b. chua