Two-Horse Race at the Top as Crown and Boeung Ket Win
http://www.khmertimeskh.com/news/14370/two-horse-race-at-the-top-as-crown-and-boeung-ket-win/

two-horse race at the top as crown and boeung ket win  phnom penh ( khmer times ) -- phnom penh crown fc and boeung ket angkor fc maintained their duel at the top as both teams won their midweek games , although in drastically different circumstances .  boeung ket angkor fc -- the league leaders -- demolished the impressive cambodian tiger fc in wednesday afternoon 's highlight at western stadium . chan vathanaka was on target once more to bury his 24th goal of the season in the opening minutes of the tie .  khuon laboravy added a second midway through the half with esoh paul omogba scoring for his third successive game late in the second-half . laboravy sealed the tigers ' fate with the team 's fourth - and his second in the 86th minute .  elsewhere on wednesday , champions crown kept the heat on boeung ket with their 11th victory in 13 games as they found a way past nagaworld fc in the season 's first game at the national olympic stadium .  the only goal of the matnorotin providing the assist in the 56th minute as the south african drove the ball home at the far post for the win .  asia euro united fc held svay rieng fc 1-1 in wednesday 's final game at the olympic stadium . mohamed hamza grabbed an equalizer for aeu after sareth kriya had put the hun sen cup holders ahead earlier in the half .  after the game , svay rieng announced the team had been ordered to move their scheduled home matches against cmac united fc and national police commissary fc to the olympic stadium . the decision by the disciplinary committee of the ffc came as a result of crowd trouble during the latter stages of the game with crown at svay rieng stadium earlier this month .  on thursday , ministry of national defense fc defeated their police fc counterparts by a 2-0 scoreline at olympic stadium . both goals came from ex-crown player jeongho kim . the 25-year-old korean utility player had parted ways with the champions earlier this month after struggling with injuries - although he showed no signs of trouble in side .  meanwhile , cmac united fc and build bright united ground out a hard-fought 2-2 draw at army stadium .  thursday 's late game at olympic stadium saw western phnom penh fc suffer an unlikely defeat as they succumbed 3-1 to the league 's bottom side kirivong sok sen chey .  it was kirivong 's first win of the season , as western coach pen phat oversaw his team 's eighth straight defeat .  looking forward to the weekend , crown will face cambodian tiger at western stadium on saturday , while rivals boeung ket will be tested against army on sunday at army stadium . elsewhere , naga play aeu while svay rieng meet cmac .  kirivong looks to build on their first win against police as western attempts to reverse their decline against bbu.