Koronadal City hosts 10-day International Folkloric Festival
http://www.bworldonline.com/weekender/content.php?id=113404

travel &amp; tourism  posted on 12:00 pm , august 13 , 2015  by louie o. pacardo , correspondent  koronadal city hosts 10-day international folkloric festival  koronadal city -- intricate patterns in red , blue , black and yellow that embody the b'laan people 's culture dot the city as it hosts the 10-day international folkloric festival which kicked off on aug. 9 .  young b'laan and t'bolis , dressed in their respective traditional clothing , stand side-by-side as they watch a performance during a festival in koronadal city . -- louie o. pacardo  the festival is a showcase of world cultures through performances by street dancing contingents from nine countries and seven national groups .  koronadal will be represented by the hinugyaw cultural dance troupe , which will be joining other philippine contingents , including the university of the philippines ' filipiniana dance group , edwin c. duero 's ecd dance company , the philippine normal university 's kislap sining dance troupe , and the philippine barangay folk dance troupe .  " we are all set , " said coordination with the international council of organizations of folklore festivals and folk arts ( cioff ) , the marketing arm and partner of unesco , the united nations ' cultural body .  koronadal , also known by its old name marbel , is also celebrating its 75th foundation anniversary next week .  elric m. batilaran , the event manager , said the festival will also feature exhibits and workshops aside from the performances .  there will be 12 groups performing in six different venues around the socsksargen region , including in general santos city , tacurong and isulan in sultan kudarat , and banga and surallah in south cotabato .  spotlight on the b'laansthe participants ' tour of the region will include the b'laan villages in saravia and assumption in koronadal where the communities will showcase their culture .  " we will introduce the b'laan to the world , " said mr. batilaan , also the city 's investment and promotions head .  the b'laans are among the philippine indigenous ethnic groups based in the provinces of south cotabato , north cotabato , sarangani , the book blaan di mtutung , b'laan is a coined word from " bla " and " an . " " bla " means counterpart or an expression of ownership or possession and when paired with " an , " refers to " our counterpart tribe . "  the counterpart tribe refered to is the to bali -- " to " is people and " bali " is on the other side -- who are known today as the t'boli . the b'laans have historically lived closely with the t'boli .  " it is during festivals that people are gathered for a common celebration , " mr. batilaran said .  the city government is expecting a boost in the local economy from the international festival , with the benefit trickling down to the micro entrepreneurs .  " even the balut ( fertilized duck egg ) vendors and tricycle drivers were included in the preparation , " mr. batilaran said .  he added : " it is an occasion worthy of the p20 million budget and sleepless nights of organizing. "