Soldiers accused of raping 10 women
http://thestandard.com.ph/news/-main-stories/top-stories/193762/soldiers-accused-of-raping-10-women.html

soldiers accused of raping 10 women  human rights group karapatan on sunday slammed government troops for allegedly raping 10 women , including seven minors since president benigno aquino iii took office in june 2010 .  " soldiers do not only kill ; they rape children too . amid the rising political killings under the aquino regime , 10 women have been raped by state forces ; and seven of them are minors , " karapatan secretary-general cristina palabay said .  " soldiers and members of the civilian armed forces geographical unit undressed girls , as young as 12 years old , and raped them . none of the perpetrators of the documented rape cases have been arrested or brought to jail , " she added .  one case , in particular , involved a 14-year-old lumad girl " tess " who was raped twice by soldiers belonging to the 68th infantry battalion-bravo company stationed at talaingod in davao del norte , palabay said .  palabay said the alleged rapists ? -- private first class stanly revil , private first class joffrey galot before a military court-martial .  the philippine national police has also filed criminal charges against the three soldiers .  the youngest victim , according to palabay , was 12-year-old nini who was allegedly raped by an aide of an officer from the 2nd infantry division .  " we believe there are more rape victims of soldiers and paramilitary forces but they are afraid and ashamed to report or file a complaint , " palabay said .  " these heinous acts are not isolated cases that can be attributed to individual ' bad eggs ' in the military . the act of rape serves as a terror tactic to shame and silence women , their families and the community . this barbarism should be condemned , and military officials who employ this tactic in their counterinsurgency program should be punished , " she added .  related stories :  more from this category :  comment disclaimer : reader comments posted on this web site are not in any way endorsed by the standard . comments are views by thestandard.ph readers who exercise their right to free position or viewpoint of thestandard.ph . while reserving this publication 's right to delete comments that are deemed offensive , indecent or inconsistent with the standard editorial standards , the standard may not be held liable for any false information posted by readers in this comments section .