New York spends Christmas Eve in T-shirts, ice-skating puddles
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/121881/new-york-spends-christmas-eve-in-t-shirts-ice-skating-puddles

new york - new yorker tyler hickey usually spends christmas eve snowboarding on the nearest mountain . this year , he 's in a t-shirt and jeans while traversing manhattan 's bryant park ice skating rink , which is melting into patchy puddles in record high temperatures .  " last year , it was snowing like every day , " hickey , 22 , said as he caught his breath with friend raj latcha , 27 , at the edge of the popular rink .  " the weather now is like summer , " latcha said as young women in crop tops and men in shorts skated by to the tune of " o come all ye faithful " played in smooth jazz on big overhead speakers .  the two were among many in the city enjoying the very un-winter-like weather as new york city smashed its record for the warmest christmas eve . the forecast for the coming days has melted any hopes for a snowy christmas and new year .  temperatures hit the low-70s by midday , easily topping the previous national weather service .  " it looks like it will be the warmest december on record , " nws meteorologist carlie buccola said .  the typical temperature in new york city for this time of year is 41 degrees and the average first measurable snowfall is on dec. 9 .  the continued warm weather expected in the next week has delighted residents like tony batista , 59 . " it 's like paradise , " said batista , who wore a kobe bryant nba jersey and shorts to take in the city 's holiday activities outdoors .  but people like tegan jones , a 25-year-old australian tourist exploring central park with friends , had broken christmas dreams .  " we came to new york for a white christmas and so far it 's pretty warm , about the same temperature as back home , " she said while runners went by in shorts .  jones would take little satisfaction from knowing that the polar jet stream , which separates warm air from the cold , is pushing to the north , according to buccola . stream , an affect that typically happens during the weather phenomenon known as el nino .  new york city is not alone as the entire northeast is getting a blast of heat . from florida to maine , high temperatures were setting records and holiday plans were changing course because of it .  at this time last year , terry hills golf course near buffalo , new york , had closed for the season after being buried under a heap of snow . on thursday , some 115 golfers , dressed in polo shirts and khakis , booked tee times at the course .  rick davis , who runs the farm by the river bed and breakfast with stables in north conway , new hampshire , counts the holiday season as one of his busiest times for taking patrons on sleigh rides .  instead of 2 feet of snow , the sleighs will be pulled this holiday season past more than a mile of open fields , mountain views and the saco river on wheels along dirt paths .  davis ' wife , charlene browne ,  " i think people , they have good attitudes most of the time , " browne said . " they 're creative , they substitute . "  despite not being christmas-like , the balmy conditions in the northeast still was better than the deadly storms , including tornadoes , that hit the south on wednesday . ( additional reporting by lucas j. jackson )