MAYWEATHER AND PACQUIAO HOG THE SPORTS LIMELIGHT IN ...
http://philboxing.com/news/story-114936.html

the year 2015 is about to end . different events occurred in the world of sports . but there were only two sportsmen who faced each other and were most frequently mentioned in tv , broadcast , print and internet media . no other than floyd mayweather , jr . and manny pacquiao .  five years in the making and the mayweather vs . pacquiao fight of the century happened on may 2 , 2015 . it was easily a box-office success because it broke per-per-view viewership records in the united states .  the fight earned 4.6 million buys and over $410 million in revenue , breaking the previous $150 million record set by the fight of mayweather vs . saul " canelo " alvarez . the bout also surpassed the 2.48 million ppv buy record set by oscar de la hoya vs . mayweather clash . the actual proceeds exceeded the pre-fight estimate of $270 million from 3 million households .  but even if it was a financial success , practically every boxing critic considered it an entertainment flop . mayweather 's defensive paid by millions for each live viewing .  brian goff of forbes.com called it " arguably , the least entertaining ' mega fight ' in memory . " bbc sports labelled it as " better never than late . " usa today tagged it as a " pay-per-snooze " fight .  more controversy marred the event when pacquiao disclosed he had a shoulder injury prior to the fight and re-injured it on the fourth round . he was denied of injection of pain killers prior to the fight by the nevada state athletic commission .  mayweather also had undergone a dosage of iv that was cleared by the united states anti-doping agency by a retroactive " therapeutic use exemption " but was not authorized by the nevada state athletic commission .  lawsuits were also filed by disgruntled spectators upon learning that pacquiao fought with an injured shoulder prior to the fight . according to espn , " the plaintiffs felt that their actions deceived those who bought tickets or the ppv or bet on the fight , and violated the rules of the nevada athletic commission . the list of the highest-paid athletes in the world for 2015 as ranked by forbes magazine on their earnings .  mayweather was no. 1 with total earnings of $300 million with $285 million from winnings and $15 million from endorsements . pacquiao was second with $160 million total earnings with $148 million from winnings and $12 million from endorsements .  rounding up the top ten athletes with their total earnings : 3 . portuguese football player cristiano ronaldo - $79.6 million . 4 . argentinian football player lionel messi - $73.8 million . 5 . swiss tennis player roger federer - $67 million 6 . us basketball player lebron james - $64.8 million 7 . us basketball player kevin durant - $54.1 million 8 . us golfer phil mickelson - $50.8 million 9 . us golfer tiger woods - $50.6 million 10 . us basketball player kobe bryant - $49.5 million .  mayweather is now retired and pacquiao is eyeing a senate seat . both boxers are still very much in the news headlines .