US: Royal Star &amp; Sun Crest papaya receives GFS Certification
http://www.freshplaza.com/article/96684/US-Royal-Star-and-Sun-Crest-papaya-receives-GFS-Certification

tex starr distributing , llc , growers and shippers of the super sweet papaya variety royal star and traditional variety , sun crest maradol papaya , announce that they have received the gfs certification for their farms and packing sheds in mexico . they have completed all of the necessary requirements for the gfs certification program in order to obtain this status .  all royal star and sun crest maradol papayas are grown on certified orchards in colima , mexico , which is located near the pacific coast and brought into the us through their facility in alamo , tx . ? food safety has always been our highest priority when growing and shipping our products . since we planted our first seeds , we have always done everything possible to focus on and treat this part of our business as the foundation for everything we do here , ? said lance peterson , co-owner of tex starr distributing , llc .  ever since the papaya import alert was issued back in october , 2011 , the fda has asked more from all of the original alert , we were already the only mexican papaya grower certified at the farm and packing shed levels by the government managed agriculture organization , senasica . now , in addition to senasica , tex star has earned its gfs certification for the fields and packing sheds where their products are grown , harvested and packed .  now , with these two programs over lapping , every area of the operation has been identified to help eliminate any potential areas of concern . ? with food safety programs like this in place , it really makes our sales teams job that much easier , ? said ryan wolverton , sales manager for tex starr distributing , llc . ? when we can protect the products we grow with programs like gfs &amp; senasica , it will always give our customers the confidence to know that they are buying a truly safe product. ?  royal star papaya is available in retail grocery stores in arkansas , arizona , california , colorado , florida , georgia , illinois , indiana , louisiana , maryland , missouri , new jersey , star papaya is also sold and available in retail grocery stores throughout canada . royal star papayas can be identified by a bright orange and green label that notates royal star papaya brand . royal star papaya is a proprietary seed variety boasting a star shaped interior , super sweet flavor and appealing aroma that is very different from all other varieties of papaya that are distributed throughout the usa and canada .  tex starr distributing , llc is based in alamo , texas and is the exclusive distributor of the royal star and sun crest papaya . tex starr distributing , llc also grows and distributes , honeydew melons and watermelon fresh from the company ? s farms and orchards in mexico .