Superhighway speed capped at 50kph
http://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2012/05/superhighway-speed-capped-at-50kph/

He says the maximum speed on sections that are yet to be completed remains at 30 kilometers per hour .  " The road is coming to completion ; we have not officially commissioned it but we have only opened up sections that are usable . We are going to do a lot of speed checks on this road ( so ) if you go higher than the prescribed limits expect a challenge , " he warned drivers .  Katana has warned rogue motorists that a special team of traffic police officers has been set up to strictly enforcement the speeds and other traffic rules on the road .  The officers will also ensure that vehicles use the right lanes depending on their respective destinations .  " All public service vehicles operating on the highway from Nairobi to Thika and are dropping passengers will be required to strictly stick use the service lines , the express lines are only for vehicles accessing either Thika or Nairobi directly , " he insisted .  " These officers are supposed to make sure that we reduce highways . What we urge from the public is cooperation , we have seen the challenges on the road but we must remember that those who suffer most are road users especially those on foot , " he emphasised .  Katana who was on an inspection tour of the superhighway directed traders and hawkers operating on the walk ways to immediately clear from the areas designated for pedestrians .  " Stages that have been marked on the highway are for dropping passengers ; we do not want to see busses blocking the road , " he said citing Githurai as a notorious spot .  He urged licensed drivers to consider going for refresher courses , while driving schools should incorporate courses on how to navigate the superhighway .  Katana affirmed his support for the revision of traffic rules saying that they will only affect those who are on the wrong side of the law .  On Thursday the Cabinet approved proposed amendments to the Traffic Act that are geared towards dealing with traffic offenses which account for 25 percent of accidents in the country .  vehicles and the issuance of driving licenses . They also seek to deal with the failure of a driver to produce a driving license , driving beyond the stipulated speed limit , driving under the influence of alcohol and causing death from reckless driving .  The amendments propose to increase tenfold traffic offences fines . For example , a first conviction on reckless driving will attract a fine of Sh100,000 or imprisonment for two years or both .  A second conviction on the same offence will attract a fine of Sh300,000 and/or imprisonment for a year or disqualification from driving for a period of two years .  LORDRICK MAYABI  Lordrick is a graduate of the University of Nairobi with a bachelor 's degree in broadcast journalism . He is passionate about political and governance issues . He also takes keen interest in human rights matters , justice and is fond of sports .  aaaaiiii 50kph is too low for such a road.As much as concede that accidents have gone up on this highway ............ i think traffic act provide for 110kph for small cars and 80kph .. Anything else is not law and can be challenged . This country is governed by law .. a few people can not wake up one morning and think that they can interprete the law for us .  Mark  I thought the Traffic Police should implement the Traffic Act and not make it . TKK oppurtunities being created ? Then do n't call it highway !  police officers will be fatter actually they will be fighting to be deployed along the highway , 50 kph really ? now that is daylight robbery .  perepepe  This is ridiculous . Accidents are caused by speeding vehicles that ram into broken down trucks or public transport vehicles stopping at dangerous spots . Police should focus on removing vehicle that are not roadworthy and punishing public and private transport flouting safety rules . Police should also enforce law requiring pedestrians to use overhead bridges . Motorways the world over have a minimum speed limit of 80 kmph and maximum of 113 kmph . Infact if you drive below 80 kmph one is pulled over and fined . Speeding is not should be used and enforcement of traffic laws .  HMS HK  precisely ! the culprits are the traffic police not being able to do their job and allowing impunity by PSV 's . There is lack of discipline by drivers of PSV's. the route cause of accidents . careless parking on the road without adequate warning signs.Overlapping at matatu/bus stages affects traffic flow . As perepepe said speeding is NOT the culprit it is carelessness and many others . Have driven all over the country for last 40 ' teary ' years and have observed and have plenty more to say of how accidents are caused !  HK  Mlordz2008  NOTE : This speed cap only applies until the super highway is officially commissioned .  http : //twitter.com/kingzhero Afriti Kizee  50 it too slow for a highway of that kind , I bet even our runners can beat that speed . The best and fair is 80 to 100 coz 50 is for resindential areas  Elijahnyangwara  I bet the road is still under constructions ... so do we go by the law or completed , the legal limits will apply .  Ombenjashikhati  om  Ombenjashikhati  The police want to open a channel that they 'll use to extort money from people !  Muchegekariuki  This is unrealistic 50km/h . You must be jocking the what was the need of the construction of the super highway ? The law stipulates 110km/h for small vehicles .  http : **46;84;TOOLONG Mwangi  This is kind of panic reaction due to the rate of accidents that have taken place.The traffic department ought to be done away with and come with people with fresh ideologies.The big question is why did Michuki tame road carnage under the short spell he was in transport department ? the reason behind this is he was serious with whatever he was doing.We need people who can lead by example .  Peter  I was watching Eng Kamau discussing this on telly the other day and he did admit that design of the higway around Pangani could be a problem . I suspect he was talking about the Forest rd , Limuru rd and Parklands rd interchange . There to be addressed ASAP . The Thika turn-off also needs to be looked at to ensure that traffic originating from Gatundu North ( Mangu area ) is able to join the highway ( this seems to be in progress ) but that going towards Mangu from beyond Thika ( Nyeri side ) have no entry point .  Speed limit of 50K ? That may actually cause more accidents . 80 would be a good number .  Walt M  This Commandant Katana needs to have his head examined . This is too low and will create gridlock .  TheEddie24ful  mungu saitia kenya  mak office  Timely . However consider reviewing 50 KPH speed limit where there are no pedestrian crossings . Once the road is complete express lanes will be high speed lanes in order to carry higher volumes of vehicles per second . Right lane must be used for overtaking only . It is wrong for lorries and slow vehicles to use right side lanes . Keep left unless overtaking is the rule . PSVs will have themselves to blame if they are caught misusing with The Traffic Commandant Leonard Katana ... and he should read this ... enforce the rules and the accidents will reduce ... This is a motor way not human way ... its only that the accidents are happening coz we Kenyans do n't know how to use these modern roads . The slower vehicles hold down the traffic on this road . Its very irritating to see a vehicle / ka piki piki and lorries moving at a speed as low as 30KPH on lane 4 not to mention last evening I saw a bicycle on lane 4 . The police and GK vehicles also seem lost on this as they are also breaking this basic rule . You also find hand carts being pushed on theseroads . Also I have seen cars switching lanes from lane 1 to lane 4 without even checking on vehicles coming from behind . Of late I have noted if you are a fast driver , its better to use lane 1 as there are fewer vehicles . Really , Kenyans needs to be taught on how to use these modern highways and simply follow ... Patriku