Final gathering for Ballinamore PPS
http://www.leitrimobserver.ie/news/local-news/final-gathering-for-ballinamore-pps-1-5117142

Final gathering for Ballinamore PPS  Picturd are staff members from Ballinamore Post Primary School . They are finalising the details of the last gathering for past pupils , teachers , present staff and students of the school which is being planned for June 2 . The event will be the last opportunity for visitors to tour the three school sites before the move to the new school in early 2014 . Pictured from ( l-r ) Phil Earley ; Mary Moran ; Niall Doonan ; Eamon Geoghegan ; Robert O'Reilly ; Padraig Leyden , Principal ; Diarmuid McCaffrey and Seamus Mullen .  This is officially the Year of the Gathering , but for the past and present pupils and staff of Ballinamore 's Post Primary Schools , this June Bank Holiday weekend will mark a very special ' gathering ' of their own , the final chance to tour the school sites and meet up with old friends before the transfer to the new Community School site in early 2014 .  The event will kick off on Sunday , June 2 with a special . The mass will be concelebrated by the Bishop as well as a number of past pupils who are now serving as priests and local priests from the area .  Afterward a free BBQ and meet and greet of past pupils , former teachers and present teachers , has been organised at Meanscoil Fatima .  It will be an opportunity for past pupils and staff to take a tour through the three school buildings for a final time before they are closed .  Adding to the nostalgia of the occasion there will be photo displays and archive materials on display . Photo images have also been scanned and will be screened on an ongoing loop during the event .  The three sites have played a very important role in education in the town over the last 60 years . In 1968 an almost unique system of common enrolment started which resulted in a sharing of teachers and facilities . This has evolved and continued to the present . In 1994 Meanscoil Fatima and St. Felim 's College were amalgamated to form Fatima and Felim 's Secondary School that an amalgamation of the Vocational School and Secondary Schools would result in a Community School .  Organiser are now looking for old photographs and memorabilia especially from pre 2000 classes for inclusion in the exhibition . Everything submitted will be returned .  For more information , please feel free to contact any member of staff or get in touch via mobile on 087-7037636 or email **31;282;TOOLONG . Further detail are also available on the Ballinamore PPS facebook page and on the school 's website http : //ballinamorepps.ie/  This website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman go towww.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Leitrim Observer provides news , events and sport features from the Carrick-on-Shannon area . For the best up to date information relating to regularly or bookmark this page .  For you to enjoy all the features of this website Leitrim Observer requires permission to use cookies .  Find Out More ?  What is a Cookie ?  What is a Flash Cookie ?  Can I opt out of receiving Cookies ?  About our Cookies  Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( Internet Explorer , Firefox , Chrome etc ) from a website you visit . They are stored on your electronic device .  This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player ( it is also called a Local Shared Object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  Yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  However , please note - websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  The types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  Revenue Science ?  A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Google Ads ?  Our sites contain advertising from Google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Digital Analytics ?  This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . This data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  ComScore ?  ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  Local Targeting ?  Our Classified websites ( Photos , Motors , Jobs and Property Today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . These cookies store no personally identifiable information .  Grapeshot ?  We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  Subscriptions Online ?  Our you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  Add This ?  Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .