Immigration reform bill passes a huge hurdle with Irish E3 visas ...
http://www.irishcentral.com/news/immigration-reform-bill-passes-a-huge-hurdle-with-irish-visas-intact-video-208459651-237591101.html

From left : Senators Chuck Grassley , Chuck Schumer and Patrick Leahy confer as the Senate Judiciary Committee assembles to work on a landmark immigration bill in Washington on May 20 , 2013 Photo by : J. Scott Applewhite/AP  The comprehensive immigration reform bill passed a huge hurdle on Tuesday night with the Senate Judiciary Committee voting 13-5 for passage out of the committee and on to the senate floor .  Included in the provision were 10,500 E3 visas for Irish recipients which will allow Irish natives to renew non immigrant visas every two years . The visas , known as Schumer visas after Senator Chuck Schumer of New York who has been their major proponent , would transform Irish immigration to America . Up to 50,000 Irish undocumented would be covered by the legalization provision in the bill .  Republican senator Charles Grassley had attempted to strip the Irish E3 visas from the bill but failed to get any support .  Three Republicans sided with ten Democrats to pass the bill giving it a very strong 13-5 majority which will boost its last several weeks in June .  Democrats dropped an amendment allowing gay spouses to become legal through their partner 's green card , a contentious issue that threatened to scuttle the bill . All ten Democrats could have forced the vote through but to have done so would have ended the bill .  Senator Schumer stated , " As much as it pains me , I can not support this amendment if it will bring down the bill . "  Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell has signalled that he will push for passage of the bill put together by four senators from both sides .  " The Gang of Eight has made a substantial contribution to moving the issue forward . So far , I 'm told that the Judiciary Committee has not in any fundamental way undone the agreement reached by the eight senators , so I 'm hopeful we 'll be able to get a bill we can pass here in the Senate , " he stated .  A separate bill will likely be introduced in the House where its prospects are still uncertain successful senate negotiations .  If both bills pass then a conference will be called to work out the differences , both houses will vote on the compromise and if it is passed President Obama will sign it into law .