'It's been a great year, but I'd love to see an Irish girl win Miss ...
http://www.herald.ie/entertainment/its-been-a-great-year-but-id-love-to-see-an-irish-girl-win-miss-universe-title-29288321.html

' it 's been a great year , but i 'd love to see an irish girl win miss universe title '  she has a body most of us would kill for , but miss universe ireland , adrienne murphy , is hoping her other half can whip her into even better shape .  her boyfriend of six years , luke henry , has just finished his personal training exams , and clondalkin native adrienne says he 'll have her lunging and squatting in no time .  fitness queen adrienne murphy  luke used to be in the army and , after years of drill training , adrienne says he 's a bit of a slave driver when it comes to bench-pressing .  " luke has just finished his contract in the army and he 's gone into personal training now , " she told the diary . " i 'm delighted for him . he 'll be great at it , and being in the army will definitely stand him in good stead .  " he can get me into shape tips and tricks to tone up . he 'll definitely be giving me advice -- he better ! "  the 23-year-old model is currently living at home with her parents and , while she 's smitten with luke , says she has no plans to leave home soon .  " i 'm only young -- i 'm a baby really . it 's so cushy living at home , with all the home cooking and comforts .  " but i 'm well aware it will get to that stage where i 'll want my independence . my parents were on holiday the other week , and it was so nice having the place to myself . so i know i 'll want to find my own place eventually -- maybe next year i 'll move out .  " i hear that , once you 've tried living on your own , you can never go back to living with your parents , so i 'm a little hesitant to make the jump right now . "  and adrienne says she plans on shacking up with luke been together for so long . he 's my best friend and we see each other every day anyway .  " he was with me before i started modelling and has been nothing but supportive so , yeah , that 's probably what would happen . "  it 's been a whirlwind year for adrienne -- since being crowned miss universe ireland she has been modelling around the clock and finishing her studies .  graduiated  " modelling has been so busy , " she said . " it 's been nonstop since march really . and i graduated from my marketing and advertising degree , so it 's all been go . "  it wo n't be long now till adrienne will have to hand over her coveted tiara and shiny satin sash , and allow another model to take the title of miss universe ireland .  but the bubbly brunette says she wo n't miss the role . " it 's been a great year and i 've really made the most of it but , when the time comes to hand over the get it . "