Shakira launches online baby shower
http://entertainment.ie/celebrity-gossip/showbiz/Shakira-launches-online-baby-shower/160254.htm

shakira launches online baby shower  shakira and her boyfriend gerard pique are hosting an online baby shower .  the 35-year-old columbian singer - who is expecting their first child , a baby boy , to arrive ' ' imminently ' ' - has invited fans to join their virtual charity bash , where they can purchase essential baby gifts that will support unicef and benefit some of the world 's most vulnerable babies .  in an invitation posted on twitter today ( 16.01.13 ) , the couple wrote : ' ' to celebrate the arrival of our first child , we hope that , in his name , other less privileged children in the world can have their basic needs covered through gifts and donations . thank you for sharing this unforgettable moment with us . ' '  the online baby shower engages social media fans by enabling them to join the popstar and her fc barcelona star beau in their virtual living room , where they can buy ' inspired gifts ' such as mosquito nets , polio vaccines and baby-weighing scales of the poorest corners of the globe .  guests are welcomed by a personal video message from shakira and gerard .  after purchasing an ' inspired gift ' , fans will then receive a personal thank you message from the couple , and be able to view exclusive photos of them taken in december 2012 by jaume laiguana .  shakira has been dating fc barcelona soccer player gerard for around two years and previously said he is the ' ' best thing ' ' to ever happen to her , until she got pregnant .  she said : ' ' this man is the best thing that could have happened in my life . and now the baby ! ' '  shakira only confirmed their relationship last year by posting a picture of them both together on twitter and facebook with a caption reading , ' ' i present to you my sunshine . ' ' in spanish .  the link to the shakira and gerard pique 's virtual baby shower is here : http : //uni.cf/baby