'It'll shave hundreds off your razor bill'
http://thecorknews.ie/articles/itll-shave-hundreds-your-razor-bill-12528

' it 'll shave hundreds off your razor bill '  a cork man who developed a device that re-sharpens razor blades has been inundated with enquiries after revealing his invention could save shavers up to ? 360 a year .  the patented blade saver , devised by barry sheehan from passage west , allows people to use their razor blades- regardless of make or model- over and over again . mr sheehan highlighted that blades , with can cost up to ? 4 each , add hundreds of euro to a shopping bill on a yearly basis . in fact , most people spend between ? 180 and ? 360 per year on the leading replacement blades depending on personal usage and model of razor , with most lasting for just six good shaves .  however , with his new battery-operated device , which retails at ? 15 across 11 local stores , the cost of being clean shaven is significantly less , as it allows a single blade to last up to 10 times longer .  " i was sick and tired " the idea came at a point in my life where i was wondering whether to invest in my pension fund or invest in something i started myself . it was a question of self-belief and i decided to go with the latter . "  the blade saver , which comes with a full set of easy-to-follow instructions , works with light pressure from a high-speed rotating leather head and the process takes less than a minute .  the practice can be repeated up to 10 times , increasing the lifetime of a razor blade . mr sheehan outlined that along with saving money ; it also allows people to do their bit for the environment .  the blade saver is available at hickeys of maylor street ; coleman 's car care in wilton shopping centre ; twilight news , st patricks street ; south link service station ; cork airport duty free and overdrive car accessories , douglas court shopping centre . it is also available from thebladesaver.com for ? 16.50 , including p&amp;p .  most people think they can cook a steak and , to you 've realised that the pan ought to be different temperatures for each cut , and that the meat absolutely , positively must be ...