Morrissey opens up about his first male relationship
http://www.irishexaminer.com/world/morrissey-opens-up-about-his-first-male-relationship-246656.html

and he grumbles at length about the injustices of a court case about the band 's royalties in the 457-page book , as well as discussing his bitterness about record deals .  he reveals he was in his mid-30s when he met jake walters at a dinner he attended in notting hill .  morrissey wrote : " jake and i fell together in deep collusion whereby the thorough and personal could be the only possible way and we ate up each minute of the day . there will be no secrets of flesh or fantasy ; he is me and i am he . " he went on : " we managed to parrot on non-stop for two years in a jocular fourth-form stew of genius and silliness . "  morrissey recalls how his neighbour , the writer alan bennett , had noticed the relationship had reached its end when he visited and pointed out to them : " you have n't spoken a word to one another since i arrived . "  the musician , whose much-anticipated book called autobiography has been male teacher as he covers his early years .  he points out the member of staff took an interest in him , massaging his hurt wrist with " slow and sensual strokes " and claims the same man was eyeing him up as he dried himself after a shower following a games lesson .  the 54-year-old also talks about his strong attachment to iranian-born friend tina dehghani , whom he met while living in los angeles : " tina is my first experience of uncluttered commitment . "  and of their discussion about children , he said : " tina and i discuss the unthinkable act of producing a mewling miniature monster . "  morrissey paints a vivid picture of his early years , with discussions of the merits of the tv shows he remembered as a child .  and his writing is as scabrous as the interviews he has given over the past three decades .  he calls his colleague mike joyce a " pounder drummer " when he discusses what he thought were the injustices of a lengthy court case in which joyce the band 's earnings .  the star also talks of his unhappiness with geoff travis , the man who signed them to his record label rough trade , even though he had not been interested in hearing their demo until marr insisted .  he claims they were poorly treated by travis , despite the label 's success being built on the smiths , and points out at one stage of the book : " there will never be one instance in the smiths ' history with rough trade when geoff would treat the band to a lavish none-too-cheap dinner or salutary clink of earthenware . "  morrissey also reveals he was offered roles in both eastenders and emmerdale and was the victim of a kidnap attempt in mexico back in sept 2007.