Introducing the at-home fertility test for men
http://www.independent.ie/style/sex-relationships/introducing-the-athome-fertility-test-for-men-29718154.html

victoria lambert  to any man rushing out to buy the new over-the-counter fertility test available from boots , i say this : enjoy the excitement while it lasts . for you , the chance to find out whether your sperm count is " normal " or " low " ' may feel like one small step for a man .  but women know that when that first packet of spermcheck fertility drops into the shopping basket you 've taken one thumping great leap for mankind -- straight into an abyss of anxiety .  today , that quickie test -- taking 10 minutes , available for just ? 29.99 -- may make you feel " in control " of your end of the fertility business , revealing who is hitting the world health organisation 's target level of 20 million or more sperm per millilitre .  tomorrow , you may purchase a second test , or a third , or bulk-buy online " for friends " , because it was " fun " or " fascinating " to do , or you dropped the be right and must be due to yesterday 's bike ride , or those tight trousers , or that hot bath , or actually because the first test was clearly part of the two per cent margin of error quoted by manufacturers .  from now on , you are just one more minnow swimming about in the maelstrom of an infertility business estimated to be worth ? 3 billion globally and rising , shopping for facts and certainties , when all you can really do is grasp at hopes and dreams .  welcome , gentlemen , to our world , where women are constantly sold the promise of " control " -- over our faces , figures and finances , but especially over our fertility . the world where we 'll happily spend all our disposable income and more on products to assist conception : from expensive herbal supplements to ovulation kits , pregnancy detectors to thermometers . the world where oocytes -- egg cells , to the uninitiated -- are an obsession , not a high score in scrabble . for now it 's your turn to enter .  perhaps you are tempted by some red healing crystals , or ayurvedic medicine , or even the prospect of " snowballs " cooling underwear ( still in development , and based on the theory that the testes need to be kept cool to produce healthy sperm ) . or maybe you just want to stock up on one of the vitamin supplements packed full of amino acids and herbs known to thin the blood , in the hope of improving erectile quality .  of course , the reality for men -- as for women -- is far less frivolous than my shopping lists suggest .  male fertility is in decline , as research published last december showed . between 1989 and 2005 , average sperm counts fell by a third in a study of 26,000 men , increasing their risk of infertility , according to researchers from the institut de veille sanitaire in st maurice . the quantity of healthy sperm produced was also reduced , by a similar proportion .  the findings , published in the journal human reproduction , confirmed findings over the past . many reasons , ranging from tight underwear to toxins in the environment , have been advanced to explain the fall , but no definitive cause has been found . the european commission has even set up a working group , reprotrain , to tackle the increasing crisis around " male reproductive biology and andrology " .  some men wo n't need the new test . they already know , or suspect , they have a problem ( it is estimated that problems with sperm account for about a third of known fertility problems ) but are probably suffering in silence . far less attention , after all , is paid to the psychological effect failure to conceive can have on men .  jo hemmings , a behavioural psychologist and relationship coach , says : " perhaps because women are deemed to have a stronger maternal instinct than men 's paternal instinct , and gestate , give birth and breast feed , they have received more attention than men . and so men are often seen as having an almost interdependent role -- more of a support role to emotions in their own right . "  men do not have quite the same sort of societal " permission " to express feelings around infertility , she notes . " yet for many men , there are feelings of inadequacy , low self-esteem , guilt , shame and anger . this can often lead to a withdrawal from communication -- and indeed sexual dysfunction -- making the problem that much more difficult . " old stereotypes have not done much to help . men with fertility problems may find it grimly ironic that , until recently , all males were considered fertile until proven otherwise , even in old age . and there were only two realistic ways of altering that : a vasectomy or condoms .  for , just as attention has focused on women 's experiences of infertility , so has the medical establishment concentrated on women 's control of fertility .  scientists have been talking about a male contraceptive pill since the early 1980s ( with many women sceptical as to whether they would trust a man to take it ) , but we are research is focusing on combinations of hormones -- synthetic testosterone and progestogens -- with some in phase iii trials , the last stage of clinical trial before a medicine is given a marketing licence . scientists in israel are looking into how blood-pressure drugs called calcium channel blockers ( such as nifedipine ) may alter the metabolism of sperm so that they are not able to fertilise an egg -- such a pill could be on offer as early as 2015 , researchers suggest . we wo n't hold our breath .  in the meantime , rising levels of anxiety seem to be doing a better job on suppressing fertility than hormones . researchers note that the increase in the number of men diagnosed with infertility seems to correlate with increasing anxiety in general . in july , psychiatrists at the university of cambridge and the university of hertfordshire reported that more than 8 million people in britain suffer from anxiety disorders -- up from 2.3 million people in a 2007 study .  of course , infertility makes people anxious , raising the possibility of a vicious cycle . the man 's psychological and physiological reactions should be considered far more seriously than current research would suggest " , argues hemmings .  and yet , silence still surrounds the issue in many quarters . visitors to the female-dominated mumsnet website forum discussing conception quickly learn that there is no such thing as tmi ( too much information ) among women desperately seeking reassurance as they attempt to get a bfp ( big fat positive ) line on their pregnancy test . but hop over to the men 's health site forum on " becoming a dad " and users seem more worried about whether their wives will still be attractive after giving birth .  look , too , to the hollywood stars who -- refreshingly -- are admitting to fertility problems more openly than before ; they are overwhelmingly female . you wo n't find many men risking their he-man reputations . a rare exception is tom arnold , the hero of true lies and ex-husband of roseanne barr , who said earlier this year : " i have a very low sperm count . i did n't 'll be honest . "  given this backdrop , perhaps spermcheck will help to get men talking about infertility as openly as women do . certainly , men and women need to accept when there is a legitimate problem -- and not be afraid to ask for support . at the time of the contraceptive pill being introduced , germaine greer said : " the management of fertility is one of the most important functions of adulthood . "