Production Cars thrill at Killarney
http://www.iol.co.za/motoring/motorsport/production-cars-thrill-at-killarney-1.1668862

Production Cars thrill at Killarney  Cape Town - despite lengthy delays due to oil on the circuit after almost every race , round two of the SA Super Series at Killarney delivered exciting , close and occasionally very robust racing from each of the national classes - none more so than the Production Class races .  Reigning champion Michael Stephen ( Audi S4 ) made the best of his pole-position to lead the sprint race from lights to flag , chased all the way by local hero Johan Fourie in a plain white BMW 335i , who found himself the BMW meat in an Audi Sandwich when he was challenged by series rookie Gennaro Bonafede , forcing him to defend second while poking hiss nose up alongside Stephen under braking as often as he thought he could get away with it .  Veteran Hennie Groenewald - who had to start from the back of the grid - closed up to Bonafede in the final stages but could n't get close enough to challenge his young team-mate , and had to settle for fifth , Class A new boy Simon Moss ( Audi S4 ) for fifth .  CLASS T  The ' hairdryer class ' was something of a survival test as Ryan Rhode kept the Mini tradition of munching gearboxes alive and Gary Formato ( Ford Focus ST ) pulled out after just one lap with a virulent misfire .  While the Minis last , however , they are very quick indeed ; After some very robust curt and thrust in the early stages Lee Thompson moved clear , assisted by a difference of opinion between the VW Golf GTI of class champion Graeme Nathan and young gun Michael van Rooyen 's Chevrolet Cruze , who then dropped back to a less bruising third in class .  They were trailed home by the surviving Focus of Shaun Duminy and the privateer Golf GTI of Charl Smalberger .  FEATURE RACE  The customary reversed grid put Cronje on pole and took advantage of it with a blistering start ( literally - we could smell the rubber four storeys up in the commentary box ) that put him straight into the lead midway through the 14 laps , however , Fourie had moved up to second ; for a while it seemed the local man would challenge for the lead , but he never got quite close enough and the closing stages became a contest between the Audis to decide third .  Not surprisingly it was Stephen , the acknowledged master of the reverse grid , who showed the Fellowship of the Four Rings the way home , ahead of Bonafede and Groenewald .  By lap five Thompson had carved his way through from the back of the field to lead the class , despite a couple of heart-stopping moments when the Mini seemed to lose momentum .  Formato , meanwhile , discovered early on that his crew had not succeeded in curing his ST 's misfire and he retired after a handful of laps .  A decent start had put Duminy in a second position he was unwilling to give up to a clearly quicker Nathan and Van Rooyen ; for the next five laps he drove the world 's widest Focus ST , frustrating Nathan 's every right up .  CLASSIC  When Nathan finally outbraked him into Turn 1 , Duminy immediately hit back with a kamikaze inside move in Turn 2 that became a classic T-bone .  Miraculously the GTI survived without chassis damage but the impact broke off both the hinges on the Ford 's driver 's door . For the rest of the race it was held in place only by the latch at the back , gaping open like an airbrake and threatening to fly off at any second .  Unsurprisingly , Duminy dropped way back to come home fifth in class ; even after Van Rooyen picked up a front-wheel puncture he was able to stay ahead of the Focus for fourth behind Thompson , Nathan and Charl Smalberger , in the only Class T car to stay out of trouble for the whole 14 laps .  And even the the drama was n't over , as Thompson 's Mini was excluded after the race for being underweight , promoting Nathan to the win , with a surprised and delighted Smalberger and Van Roooyen rounding out the podium 1 , Daniel Rowe , set the pace im practice and qualifying - but the draw was n't kind to him and he wound up fifth on the grid for both races .  A scrappy first few laps however , soon saw him challenging Dewald Brummer , who 'd come up from the fifth row of the grid , for the lead - until Juan Brummer hit the tyre wall and put his Polo on its roof , perilously close to the circuit .  But before that safety car could get out on the circuit , Mathew Hodges and Eddie Rodriques had a clash of will that left Rodriques at the side of the road in a Polo that was n't going anywhere for a long time , if ever .  By the time the marshals had cleared the debris , the field was closely bunched behind the safety car and there were only two laps in it - a flat-out sprint for the line that saw Brummer take the flag ahead of Rowe .  RACE 2  Both the ladies in the Polo series - Cape qualified in the top six and Lady Luck showed them some sisterly solidarity in the draw for the second race with pole position for Pepper and third for Bate .  It was Pepper 's first pole in the series and she made the most of it by scorching away to an early lead while 14-year-old driving prodigy Sheldon van der Linde dealt with a determined challenge from Jano van der Westhuizen and Rowe - determined enough that at least one door mirror was seen flying up out of the melee under braking for Turn 5 .  DRIVER OF THE DAY  In the closing stages however , Van der Linde broke the tow and reeled in the race leader , forcing her to work very hard indeed for her second win in VW Cup racing , just ahead of Van der Linde and Rowe .  Second in Race 1 and third in Race 2 was enough to secure the overall win for the day for Rowe , and keep him at the top of the championship standings , while a solid ninth for the day on only his Killarney earned series rookie Michael Gibson Driver of the Day .  Trevor Bland took the win in the Masters Class for drivers over 28 , from Hodges and Shaun Holtzhauzen ; Hodges retain the lead in the class standings but with the gap sufficiently narrowed to make the Masters category highly unpredictable .  No race info was available for the combined V8 Supercars at the time of publishing .