X factor need for gospel Top 15
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/tv-radio/x-factor-need-for-gospel-top-15-1.1668672

X factor need for gospel Top 15  Another season of I Want to Sing Gospel is upon us and more of the genre 's enthusiasts have come out to try to take the crown . The audition numbers are much larger than before , but the producers are keeping the selected singers to a minimum .  Auditions were held in East London , Durban and Joburg and only five people from each city were chosen . Now out of the audition phase , we go straight into the Top 15 to determine who will be whittled down to find the winner .  Several changes have been made to the show , from the judging panel to the host . Thabo Mdluli , who hosted the previous seasons , is working on Idols SA as a vocal coach and furthering his musical interests so he will not return to the presenter 's seat .  In his place will be actress , Salamina Mosese .  The judging panel boats a revamp -- Lindelani Mkhize now takes on the role of talent scout , leaving producer Sipho Makhabane and well known scout , Tshepo Ndzimande .  Sadly , the winner gets to walk away with a mere R200 000 which is a far cry from what other shows of this nature provide . At least there is also a recording contract to help the winner get a foot in the gospel industry .  We caught up with the talented singer and songwriter , Mbambo . She fostered her talents in Joyous Celebration but now flies solo .  Mbambo is no Randall Abrahams , yet her new job requires her to deliver harsh truths to some of the contestants .  " Honestly , it is going to be hard for me to break people 's hearts like that , " she said .  " At first I told the producers I was not sure I wanted to do this because it is hard for me to demoralise someone on TV about a talent which they feel they have . It is not nice , but the bottom line is as much as a few dreams will be broken , there is that on that one .  " My energies will be on finding that person who will grab I Want to Sing Gospel with both hands and take it to greater heights , " she explained .  As a singer with multiple nominations for various awards , Mbambo knows exactly what kind of talent is required in a contestant to make the cut .  " I am looking for someone with something special . There are some things you ca n't pinpoint , but there is always that spark about someone ; something you ca n't explain .  " We are looking for that exceptional person with incredible talent , with the character to back it up . They also have to have the anointing for this show because that is necessary for any gospel singer , " she said .  While looking for a winner , other shows take into consideration talent , personality and looks , but Mbambo explained that I Want to Sing Gospel will not be looking at people 's appearances .  " You do get the pretty ones , but sometimes you let them go . We are looking for someone with incredible singing talent and if you are also good-looking , that 's great , but that 's not our main focus , " she said .