What I should probably tell medical interns but almost never do
http://thoughtleader.co.za/readerblog/2014/06/02/what-i-should-probably-tell-medical-interns-but-almost-never-do/

Media coverage of the long working hours of junior doctors has caused much discussion and argument among my peers . Articles such as this ( where a journalist follows an intern on call ) and this ( where an intern claims her hours are illegal ) have generated responses ranging from anger to sympathy . We know that internship is difficult , but it is something that all of us more senior doctors survived . Granted , we lost some colleagues along the way , but for the most part we believe perseverance is worthwhile . Maybe , though , we never take enough time to talk to interns about their experiences , and to help them through it . In the chaos , perhaps we forget that we are not just supervisors , but mentors too .  What would I tell medical interns if they asked me if this job is worth it ? This :  I feel for you because yes , being a doctor can be horrible . Regardless of the salary or of how many have done it before you , sweat-soaked , hyper-emotional state achieved when you 've been awake for 30 hours , dealing with complex problems and demanding people the entire time . It 's terrible that you can be on your feet for more than three times as long as a " normal " person and still feel like a failure at the end of it , because of one little mistake you made during the shift . It 's awful to leave your family tucked in bed while you head to work on a Saturday , to repeatedly miss out on parties and weddings and long weekends away .  Gallo  I know the frustration you feel when faced with blank looks from nursing staff that do n't seem to know the first thing about anything medical . I know the hatred you feel for registrars who make you do yet another blood test on a patient you 've just finished torturing with a needle . I know how thankless patients are , the disgust you may harbour for drunk patients who spit and vomit on you while you 're trying to help , the anger fester until they 're unsalvageable . I know the shame you feel when you turn your back on a six-hour long queue of needy people because you need to pee , and how unfair it is that you should feel that shame , because you 're doing your best . I know the 3am darkness , when you feel that you absolutely just can not continue , and yet you must because there 's an infinite pile of work still to do .  It gets worse .  The hours you will be expected to work will increase . Interns are now fairly protected , and hospitals face losing their accreditation to train interns if they force them to work too many hours . That protection vanishes not only when you leave internship , but also when you enter the private sector , where nobody regulates hours . Those rushing to leave the state should speak to private practitioners about how many hours a week they work and how many weekends they spend with their children . Their answers may displease you .  The possibility of failure and the perform what is required of them , interns need to do little more than work through a list of tasks set at the start of each day . Good interns will go above and beyond this , but you never have to make a decision that will decide between life or death for a patient . In talks with the press , interns claim they 're often unsupervised . This is untrue : there is always someone to ask for help at accredited facilities , even if you are scared or reluctant to do so .  But it gets better too . Satisfaction increases . Never making big decisions means never reaping the rewards of good ones : the pleasures of cure and of suffering relieved . Although mastering the small skills required of an intern is gratifying , it 's not on the same scale as becoming an expert within a field .  The menial tasks that make your job hateful get outsourced to new interns as you move up the ladder . You can eventually ( mostly ) avoid the parts of medicine you dislike : operating patients for others . Eventually you will understand the ranks of the nursing staff , and learn to get the best out of them .  You will be thanked . Not every day , and perhaps not by those who owe you the most . But here and there will be someone who is grateful to you for something silly , like bandaging a tiny wound . A kid who one day was crying and terrified might high-five you the next . Now and then a family member will shake your hand and thank you for your efforts -- sometimes even if the person you were caring for died . These platitudes will be few and far between , but they will hold a special place in your heart .  I know that the system , which seems to value nothing more than your ability to stay awake and see patient after patient , is not capitalising on the talents that got you into medical school . There 's no time to apply your bright mind to interesting problems , you have no more reserves for compassion . Possibly be the doctor you could have been , had things been different . The thing is , this is South Africa , the setting is what it is , and the job is what it is . There are too many sick people and not enough doctors . People become ill at inconvenient hours . We are living in a TB and HIV epidemic . None of these problems can be solved by the minister of health overnight , and none are unique to this country .  Imperfect systems should be challenged , and I 'm proud of my young colleagues for doing so . But regardless of where it is practiced -- in the state or in private , in Africa or abroad -- medicine is a demanding career . The hours will always be long . The road will always be hard . And those truths must be faced if you wish to continue this journey . Most of us still in the profession believe the journey has been worthwhile for us , but that may not be true for you . Only you can decide .  sector and currently specialising in paediatric surgery .  The issue is not that interns are complaining about the long and absurd hours that they put in . The issue is that the system *kills* people .  And not just a few . Hundreds of thousands per annum .  If you look at an industry that honestly cares about safety , look no further than aviation . Flight accident investigations have repeatedly shown that fatigue is a routine factor in aviation accidents . And the industry , with governmental intervention , has responded with remarkably strict rules on crew rest periods . Rules that continue to be tightened .  If the airlines killed *two orders of magnitude fewer* people than the medical profession does , it would be front page news all over the world . No one would fly .  Unfortunately , when it comes to medicine , we have no choice . We ca n't drive our way to a cure .  But your community is in such a state of denial , that you refuse to even recognize the problem . Study after practitioners is one of the leading causes of death in hospital .  When you 're tired , you are , quite simply , cognitively impaired .  You would not countenance a surgeon drinking alcohol at lunch . Why then , do you not even blink at her cutting after 20 hours on shift ?  Johan  " ... study after study ... " ? Can you name a few and site the references , please ?  Karen Milford  Rich -- obviously capping the number of hours a doctor or nurse can work per time period is in the best interests of absolutely everyone ( I think the department would welcome it in particular , because overtime hours are more expensive than regular hours , in many ways ) . Like I said , I 'm proud of the junior doctors for trying to institute a change . However , as long as the patient-doctor ratio remains what it is , this ideal is unfortunately lofty at best . Also , the bulk of the hours will remain ' antisocial ' : nighttimes and weekends . Finally most patients find themselves in in this country -- and let 's face it , that has n't changed much in two decades -- the burden of disease will remain massive . Which leaves these doctors facing a job that is not going to change much in terms of demands and difficulty in the next few years . This post is not to say ' quit moaning ' , but rather : we hear and understand why you 're moaning , but there are a few hard truths that you 'll need to accept .  michael  Karen , thank you for what you are doing in a malfunctioning system.Unfortunately corruption , theft and incompetence is busy destroying public health .  The hard truth is that Cuba , which is *far* poorer than South Africa , has a doctor:populace ratio of 1:185 . South Africa 's at 1:1300 .  Somehow the Cubans have made the decision to offer their citizens quality *and* inexpensive medical care . South Africa , obviously has not .  But then , Cuban doctors are n't compensated as generously as their South African memberships at the golf club.They 're just ordinary citizens , doing their jobs .  Again , it 's the system that 's broken . But nothing you 've written suggests you , or your colleagues , have any serious intention of grappling with the need for fundamental change .  And you 're killing people .  Now *that's* a hard truth .  Asif Laher  No bright minds out there will consider medicine as a profession in due course . It is not a clever way of living . Only the dumbest of the clever end up in medicine .  Long study duration , terrible working conditions , over legislation , poor pay etc etc . A colleague I know lost her hearing after contracting drug resistant TB from a patient . Another was nearly raped , and quite a few have been physically assaulted by psychotic patients .  It is not for the faint hearted , and certainly not for individuals who want any sort of normal life .  Karney  So well written and brings back memories of that exhausting year . I era so can only imagine how draining those extra years of hard labour must be . I did contemplate leaving medicine , as many do , but stuck it out and now am very happy I did .  Isabella van der Westhuizen  Thank you for a good article about the joys and demands of being a doctor .  Stuart DS  This article , and Rich Brauers comments , got me really intriged . On Rich 's comment on doctor to populace ratio , what is interesting is that South Africa ranks around 40th in the world ( 2005-2012 ) , behind other developing countries such as Brazil , Colombia , Guatemala and Mongolia ( see the Henry Kaiser Family Foundation website ) . On healthcare expenditure as a % of GDP , South Africa seemingly ranks 51st worldwide in 2012 , behind countries like Paraguay , Costa Rica , Brazil and Malawi ( World Bank data ) .  Given our health crisis , ( we have the 159th lowest life expectancy worldwide in 2013 , WHO ) , I have to agree with RIch -- something doctors , and patients , seem to be taking the brunt of it .  ( Interestingly , Dorsey et al 2003 estimated that for US medical specalists , an average work week was 53.9 hours -- basically a 6 day week of 9 hour shifts , or a 5 day week of 11 hours . Very , very different to South Africa ... )  Stuart DS  CORRECTION -- South Africa has the 97th worst doctor to patient ratio worldwide ( out of 160 countries who have data avaliable ) -- see the raw data on the Henry Kaiser Family Foundation website , not the website itself , sort function is a bit dysfunctional .  http : //thoughtleader Bongz  Thank you Karen . I 'm not a docter nor do I know anything about being one but this has really given more in the eyes of well balanced view of a doctor  Sign up To Our Newsletter  EMAIL :  Profile  On our Reader Blog , we invite Thought Leader readers to submit one-off contributions to share their opinions on politics , news , other field of interest . If you 'd like to contribute , first read our guidelines for submitting material to this blog.