A biscuit to beat malnutrition
http://www.iol.co.za/lifestyle/food-drink/recipes/a-biscuit-to-beat-malnutrition-1.1697361

a biscuit to beat malnutrition  pretoria - these are not the biscuits your grandmother used to bake . these biscuits are high in protein and antioxidants , they are gluten-free and rich in dietary fibre , are inexpensive to make and can turn the unemployed into entrepreneurs .  they are tasty too .  food science and nutrition graduates , along with professor john taylor of the university of pretoria ( up ) , have spent the better part of 10 years developing a healthy alternative to the average , normally unhealthy , snack .  over the years , several graduates students from various african countries have worked on the project . what they have come up with is a sorghum and cowpeas biscuit that is more nutritious than the snacks people wolf down at their desks .  " these biscuits can go a long way to combat protein-energy malnutrition , " taylor said .  taylor , who has been working with sorghum since 1979 , said at least 20 percent of south africans were undernourished and protein-energy malnutrition was more common especially children -- do not get enough energy from their food and the little protein they ingest is used for energy .  taylor and his team worked out that they could use sorghum , an indigenous grain , and cowpeas , a legume , to develop a biscuit that would nourish people and could be a means of earning an income .  it could even be incorporated into the government 's school feeding scheme .  instead of eating unhealthy snacks bought from vendors outside the school gates , children could snack on these biscuits .  because sub-saharan africa is the most food-insecure region in the world -- and it is expected the population of these countries will double by 2050 -- there is a need to develop and support agricultural activities in these countries .  cowpeas and sorghum are indigenous to africa and easier to grow than wheat . they are also resistant to drought .  " south africa is running out of water and grains under irrigation will not be an option in future . we can not use drinking water for grains because taylor said .  the biscuits were simple and inexpensive to make and in a country where 30 percent to 40 percent of people were unemployed they could be a source of income .  " normally vendors sell perishables such as fruit or vegetables . if they do n't sell them today , it will be rotten and not fit to eat by tomorrow . but the biscuits can be sold today , tomorrow or in a few weeks . "  because the biscuits contain only about three percent water -- as opposed to bread , which is 40 percent water -- they are " shelf-stable " and do n't perish as quickly as other snacks . because of the low percentage of moisture , the biscuits are considered nutrient-dense . they also digest slowly , keeping people satisfied for longer .  " from a nutritional point of view this is a good product . "  the biscuits are ready-to-eat and do not require cooking or other effort once baked and packaged .  it was not easy to develop the biscuits . " we had to to make biscuits , " he said .  the gluten in wheat holds baked goods together . because sorghum contains no gluten , it was a technical challenge to develop a working recipe .  taylor conceded the first batch was n't very good and the biscuits were crumbly .  they also had to work on the protein content , so they added soya .  " the biscuits turned out to be less crumbly , " taylor said .  then rwandan student pam dovi explored the possibility of using cowpeas instead of soya . " this was the technical breakthrough , " said taylor .  the biscuits were tested in mamelodi , where people evaluated the biscuits in terms of taste , appearance and texture .  the biscuits were compared with conventional commercial biscuits , for example shortbread .  " people found the biscuit very acceptable , " taylor said .  the biscuits were also evaluated in terms of their ability to generate an income .  taylor and his team determined one could earn the equivalent of a domestic worker 's salary the university and the university of limpopo started training people to make the biscuits .  this is part of a bigger agricultural project sponsored by the howard g buffet foundation through the norman borlaug institute .  nokuthula vilakati , a phd candidate in nutrition , focuses on educating people about the nutritional value of the biscuits and sorghum .  since march , 11 people have been trained , but taylor wants to see this project develop into something bigger .  the team have developed a step-by-step manual with pictures explaining how to make the biscuits .  nosihle dladla , a master 's degree student , said the biscuits had " a lot of potential throughout africa " and because children were curious , they would try the biscuits . as part of her research she is developing other sorghum snacks such as chips .  phd candidate adeoluwa adetunji from nigeria is developing sorghum beverages , similar to the fermented , non-alcoholic drink known as mageu or amahewu .  taylor believes the biscuit " offers the best of both worlds " by combining traditional grains  " by 2030 , half of africans will live in cities and this will profoundly change the way people eat , " he said .  instead of half a loaf of bread and a soft drink , people could enjoy a biscuit that added value to their diet . three biscuits made with sorghum and soya would provide a child with 50 percent of its daily high quality protein requirements .  recipe  sorghum and cowpeas biscuits ( makes 20 15g biscuits )  1 ? cup finely milled sorghum flour  ? cup finely milled cowpeas flour  ? cup sugar  2 teaspoons baking powder  ? cup sunflower oil  2 teaspoons vanilla essence  100ml water .  method :  turn on the oven to 190 ? c.  combine the sorghum and cowpea flour in a mixing bowl .  add the sugar and baking powder .  add the sunflower oil and vanilla essence .  add the water .  mix thoroughly with a wooden spoon and shape the dough into a ball by hand .  sprinkle a baking with a rolling pin .  press the dough flat on the baking tray ( as thick as a biscuit ) and cut it into the desired shapes .