Radical economic transformation will not be realised through NDP ...
http://www.sabc.co.za/news/a/8e3e7080443943d48e258e59b2015eed/Radical-economic-transformation-will-not-be-realised-through-NDP:-Vavi-20140602

tags :  congress of south african trade unions ( cosatu ) secretary general , zwelinzima vavi says the national development plan can not address the high levels of unemployment and inequality facing the country .  in an interview with sabc news , vavi says the envisioned radical transformation of the economy can not be realised through the ndp economic policy . during his inauguration last week , president jacob zuma vowed that in his new term government will implement radical economic transformation  vavi says cosatu 's concerns regarding the national development plan are yet to be addressed . vavi and cosatu 's largest affiliate , numsa , have been vocal in criticism of the plan which is seen as the government 's blueprint for the next 30 years .  vavi says he does n't believe that radical economic transformation can be realised through the ndp .  " you can never succeed in attacking and breaking the backbone of an unemployment rate that has reached catastrophic levels at 35.1% as we speak , using neo-liberal programmes such as the ndp or gear for that have made south africa to be ranked no.1 in the whole world , in the country with most inequalities . and you can never succeed to lift that 23 to 26 million south africans who are living below the poverty line or on one-us-dollar a day if you are using neo-liberal programmes . "  vavi says the ndp is flawed and the federation will continue to raise its shortcomings . " cosatu will continue to say we can not rely on a programme clearly , that follows the foot paths of the disastrous 20 years that have led to an economy that regenerates , reproduces unemployment , poverty and inequality . we need a change of that ndp all together . "  vavi believes radical economic transformation should include nationalisation of mines  the plan was adopted at the anc 's mangaung elective conference . vavi says one can not talk about radical economic transformation and ndp at the same time .  anc spokesperson zizi kodwa says various stakeholders were given a chance to give their inputs . he emphasizes that the programme is a product of the anc which is a product of various consultations endorsed by different sectors . it 's not only cosatu , there are individuals in society who have issues with the ndp . as we implement sections of the ndp , we ca n't wait until we have a perfect document that everybody is happy about . in the process of implementing the ndp , its people will be allowed because it 's a living document , it 's not a concept . we 're ... in the process of implementation - they will make contribution , we 'll make amendments when necessary , but we ca n't wait until we find this perfect document , which it will never become . we 'll perfect the document as we implement it . "  vavi believes radical economic transformation should include nationalisation of mines . at the mangaung conference , the anc fell short of nationalization of mines , but instead adopted a policy of great state intervention in key areas of the economy .