E3 2014 - The Crew hands-on preview
http://www.lazygamer.net/e3-2014/e3-2014-the-crew-hands-on-preview/

ubisoft is looking to shake up the racing genre with their impressive addition -- the crew . it 's all vroom vroom and loads of fun . i got some hands on time with the game , and this could just be the racing game for me .  the crew takes a more rpg approach to racing . sure , the cars are relatively realistic , but it 's more about the fun -- the tracks , the adventure , and challenging your friends .  first of all , there 's the environment . the developers made a huge effort to replicate the entire us of a. not just the cities , not just random stretches of highway , but to give players the opportunity to race across the country , go off-roading and experience a variety of experiences .  using that , you can team up with your crew and go racing -- not just on a specific track , but using all kinds of weird and wonderful combination . how about racing sports cars from new york to la ? or perhaps into the bayou ? or maybe you can just jump into some drag racers and speed down route 66 . whatever you want to do , the crew has unique experiences on offer .  speaking to the creative director , julian gerighty , he explained that he loves playing with his friends , but is also a father . as a result , his prime gaming time is 6:30 in the morning . of course , none of his friends are awake then , or willing to play games . as such , they built-in a challenge system into the crew -- do your race and then challenge a friend . your race , including your car , route and times will then be saved as a ghost . when your friend is ready , they can take on the challenge and race you -- results will be delivered to both of you once completed . i think this is a fantastic option -- people are n't always able to coordinate schedules and this means that you can still race against your friends .  the racing itself is lots journeys , and there are a variety of missions . the first part of the demo was actually a take down race -- my team had to gun it to catch up to an enemy vehicle , and then we had to force it off the road or ram into it so that it took damage and eventually we won . it was an odd race , but a quite cool with the team .  next up was a more standard race , but still team-based . our crew of four had to race against another crew of four . i apologized in advance because i am such a horrible driver in games , but it was still nice to explore the tracks and go as fast as i could .  beyond racing , you can also fully customize and level up your vehicles , adding performance enhancements as well as visual customizations . i had a fantastic time changing my rims and paint job -- it felt like an old school episode of pimp my ride .  despite the fact that i 'm not normally a racing has made a very fun entry into the racing genre . if you are keen for a game that 's all about riding around with your friends , you really ca n't beat the crew .  share this :  in this article  wielding my lasso of truth , i am the combination of nerd passion and grammar nazi . i delve into all things awesome and geek-tastic . i believe people should stop defining themselves and just enjoy playing games , so let 's get on with it !