International Transfer Round-Up
http://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/categories/international/keep-up-to-date-with-all-major-international-transfers-5/166360

international transfer round-up  keep up to date with all major international transfers  in today 's edition of the latest transfer rumors we will look at gonzalo higuain , eden hazard , guillermo ochoa , marcos rojo and juan cuadrado . barcelona fans should be on alert as four of these players are linked to the catalan giants .  higuain flattered by barca interest  gonzalo higuain has admitted it would a pleasure to play alongside his fellow argentinian lionel messi at barcelona . despite napoli dismissing reports as ' totally groundless ' , higuain has fuelled speculation of a possible switch to camp nou . " i 'm flattered by the interest from barca . any player would be . "  psg admit defeat in pursuit of hazard  paris saint-germain coach , laurent blanc , has all but given up on luring eden hazard to the french capital . when asked on an update of the chances of a transfer , blanc responded cagey : " chelsea want to keep him . "  barca after mexico hero  guillermo ochoa was and may end up at barcelona . the 28-year-old keeper is out of contract by the end of this month and his agent confirmed he is in contact with the blaugrana . barcelona , however , have already signed marc-andre ter stegen and the signing of chile 's claudio bravo from real sociedad is also about to be announced ...  rojo wants barcelona move  argentina left-back , marcos rojo , would love to join his teammate lionel messi at fc barcelona . the 24-year-old has been linked with a switch from sporting to camp nou after his impressive performance against bosnia-herzegovina . however , the defender confirmed he will only focus on his future after the world cup ...  cuadrado on barca 's radar ?  colombia winger , juan cuadrado , is reportedly on barcelona 's radar as a transfer target . the 25-year-old , who is co-owned by udinese and fiorentina , has impressed in his world cup debut and new barcelona manager , luis enrique , reportedly wants him at camp nou ...  which of these transfer rumours would you like to happen ? a.cole to camp nou that 's music to ma ears ... but i 'm not ok with xavi leaving the barca side not at all , but i guess is time for new players . and again higuain for the spanish gaints that will be good . i just love the team