STOCKWATCH: Pinnacle Holdings share price bounces back
http://www.bdlive.co.za/companies/2014/08/20/stockwatch-pinnacle-holdings-share-price-bounces-back

stockwatch : pinnacle holdings share price bounces back  after losing 65% of its value in the past six months , information and communication technology group pinnacle holdings bounced back on wednesday , climbing 21.4% to r9.70 in late afternoon trading .  this followed an update released by the group on sens allaying some perceived concerns and rumours , which led to the sharp drop in its share price in the first place .  pinnacle said the group remained focused on its day to day business operations . its customers , all of its suppliers and financiers remain in place and continue to be supportive of the business .  " it is therefore business as usual at pinnacle . "  the group reiterated its previous announcement that results for the year ended june 30 2014 would reflect headline earnings per share of between 160c and 175c and earnings per share of between 165c and 180c . this compared to headline earnings per share of 205.6c in the comparative period to june 30 2013 , a decline of between 15% and 22% , and between 13% and 20% .  during the last quarter of the financial year , pinnacle 's revenue grew by 7% , although the benefit of this was negated by lower margins and increased expenses .  in addition , pinnacle incurred material one-off charges relating to write downs on large holdings of inventory .  in this article  after losing 65% of its value in the past six months , information and communication technology group pinnacle holdings bounced back on wednesday , climbing 21.4% to r9.70 in late afternoon trading .  this followed an update released by the group on sens allaying some perceived concerns and rumours , which led to the sharp drop in its share price in the first place .  pinnacle said the group remained focused on its day to day business operations . its customers , all of its suppliers and financiers remain in place and continue to be supportive of the business .  " it is therefore business as usual at pinnacle . "  the group reiterated its previous announcement that results for the year ended june 30 2014 would and earnings per share of between 165c and 180c . this compared to headline earnings per share of 205.6c in the comparative period to june 30 2013 , a decline of between 15% and 22% , and to earnings per share of 205.8c , a decline of between 13% and 20% .  during the last quarter of the financial year , pinnacle 's revenue grew by 7% , although the benefit of this was negated by lower margins and increased expenses .  in addition , pinnacle incurred material one-off charges relating to write downs on large holdings of inventory .  business sites  network sites  tools &amp; services  news updates  times media ( pty ) ltd disclaims all liability for any loss , damage , injury or expense however caused , arising from the use of or reliance upon , in any manner , the information provided through this service and does not warrant the truth , accuracy or completeness of the information provided .