Government throws Eskom a lifeline
http://mg.co.za/article/2014-09-15-government-throws-eskom-a-lifeline

the state has thrown a promised lifeline to struggling power utility eskom , announcing a bail-out package aimed at plugging its r225-billion funding gap and helping it get back to financial sustainability .  experts have already warned however that the plan -- which includes unspecified additional funding -- raises the risk of further credit rating downgrades for the government .  the rescue plan comes as eskom continues to face serious operational challenges , heightening the risk of more load shedding for consumers .  on sunday , the national treasury announced in a statement that the plan was aimed at helping to " relieve the impact on electricity consumers , as well as add additional support to eskom 's balance sheet " .  it will include government support for regulatory tariff adjustments and further funding for the state-owned supplier , with the amount to be announced at october 's medium-term budget policy statement .  the equity injection will come from " leveraging non-strategic government assets " -- suggesting possible privatisation -- with further detail to be revealed at the budget announcement .  and above the r200-billion earmarked for the current tariff cycle . " while higher debt levels do have a negative impact on eskom 's balance sheet , it is necessary to reduce the immediate impact on electricity consumers , " said the statement .  eskom has existing government guarantees of r350-billion , of which it has only drawn r122-billion . the treasury said the guarantees will be used to reduce eskom 's debt costs but stressed it needed to manage costs and raise sufficient revenue to cover these .  ' negative for balance sheet'other elements of the package include accelerating electricity demand management measures that do not undermine economic growth ; supporting the growth of independent power producers and a drive to improve operational efficiency .  " eskom will need to improve the efficiency of its operations through more effective maintenance of existing power stations , limiting cost over-runs in the new build programme , improving procurement outcomes and management of working capital , " the treasury said .  razia khan , head for africa macro research at standard chartered , said it was " something of necessary support " .  while details of the equity injection were still to be clarified , the mention of leveraging non-strategic asset did hint at " potential privatisation of some state assets , " she said in a research note .  ratings agencies would likely view the plan as a " negative for the balance sheet of the south african government , " khan said .  " with south africa 's rating already threatened by its weak growth outlook , and an almost-across-the-board deterioration in a number of credit metrics , the decision of cabinet to approve an equity injection for eskom -- although expected -- adds to potential downgrade pressure . "  eskom 's funding gap is partly driven by the company not generating enough revenue to cover the cost of supplying electricity , says the treasury .  it is currently building two mega coal power stations in a bid to boost capacity and avoid widespread blackouts . one of the plants , medupi , was supposed to have come online by the end of last year but is running behind schedule as a result are as acute as its financial ones and the utility has reversed its previous policy of keeping the lights on at the expense of maintenance , heightening the risk of load shedding for consumers .  over two fifths of eskom 's power generating plants are in disrepair and urgently need maintenance to bring it back to adequate performance levels .  of eskom 's 87 coal-fired generation units -- six are typically located at each power station -- 36 are in urgent need of maintenance , according to eskom spokesperson andrew etzinger .  the backlog will take at least two years to eliminate he said in an interview last week . in addition , it would take " a significant amount of capacity " from both the uncompleted medupi and kusile power stations , before the country had an adequate electricity reserve margin .  the previous strategy of deferring refurbishment in a bid to keep the lights on had caused a downward spiral , said etzinger . " what was realised was , it 's not sustainable , " he said .  the deterioration has seen a across eskom 's fleet .  chris yelland , managing director of ee publishers and eskom expert , said despite energy consumption being at a seven year low availability had dropped even faster .  even if medupi were to come online all at once , it would be outweighed by the drop in energy availability , he said .  this was a consequence of eskom 's previous decision to keep the lights on at the cost of maintenance , said yelland .  load sheddingetzinger denied political pressure ahead of the elections was the reason why eskom had opted to pursue keeping the lights on at all costs .  however , for the first time this financial year load shedding had been taken out of eksom 's shareholder compact with the department of public enterprises , its shareholder . this reflected " an understanding of all stakeholders , including our shareholder , that keeping the lights on at all costs is just not sustainable " , he said .  as part of its new philosophy , eskom has returned decentralised decision making to its power station managers its head office , megawatt park in johannesburg , before taking a unit out of service .  this is designed to return authority and accountability to power station managers and is in keeping with the drive to secure the health of its fleet in the long run .  industry speculation , however , suggests that the level of degradation of eskom 's fleet has become widespread and severe , and is compounded by an attrition of skills at power stations .  etzinger said the utility was finding that when routine maintenance on generation units was done , it often sees " scope creep " . in other words , the repair work that is needed , is often more than is initially expected or planned for .  eskom did not have a " significant skills issue " he noted but it was working to make better use of the skills it already had .  he stressed these problems did not necessarily translate into load shedding which was also influenced by demand , planned maintenance and trips at power stations . the difference now was that eskom for the unplanned outages in the system .