5 of the best South African indie games from A MAZE
http://www.htxt.co.za/2014/09/15/5-of-the-best-south-african-indie-games-currently-being-made/

the event included game demos , workshops , talks by games industry people and a chance for the public to discover the joys of ps3 move jousting . and dancing . lots of dancing . ( and a particularly spectacular five minute presentation by the dashing and intelligent editor of a certain website which shall , for the purposes of modesty , remain unmentioned -- ed ) .  among the games on show were these five that left an impression on me for one reason or another . none of them are finished , and are in fact works in progress by both students and commercial game developers , but they provide an inkling of what 's happening locally . all of the games on show were spectacular , and we 'll be following up with others ( like retrofuture 's zx-hyperblast ) at a later date .  flux  by tiane erwee  this simple game by second year wits game design student tiane erwee is all about the design , not the graphics , and boy does she nail it . flux is disguise a very tricky puzzle game , where players have to navigate a visual maze to collect orbs by moving , jumping , changing orientation and switching gravity . it requires a quick mind and fast reflexes , as any mis-step resets the whole thing . there are definitely very good things in this young designer 's future .  i was amazed by this very clever musical puzzle game that required players to connect up various nodes , each with their own function , in such a way that a looping tune is completed . it increased in complexity the more i played , until eventually i was faced with a mind-boggling array of options and multiple paths to solution . i was even more surprised when the developers , who are making the game for commercial release , told me that there is even a visual composer element to the game that lets people write their own music . so clever .  advert  parallax  by liam brookshank  another student game , parallax features a tiny block that must navigate levels by pulling off some pretty , controls . the challenge is steep , requiring players to stick to walls while simultaneously jumping and shooting to create momentum , and success is a massive juggling act in terms of brain power , manual dexterity and , sometimes , blind luck . think " as hard as dark souls " but with incredibly minimalistic graphics .  metamorforest  by benjamin crooks  metamorforest is a rather abstract **26;1055;toolong simulator that does n't give you a lot to do but walk and survive . if you 're lucky , you 'll come across a piece of wood to burn once the sun goes down to keep the noisy animals/creatures that snuffle around in the background at bay , so you can survive to walk another day . if you 're not ... well ... you 're but a smear on the landscape in the morning . you can also hunt the occasional animal for food and even meet other lost souls who you can decide to team up with ... or not . teaming up worked out for me as my companion was eaten instead of me on next night , of course , for a grand total of 3 days survived . go me !  i was a little disappointed to find that the action role-playing game tom sparks and the quakes of ruin had attempted a kickstarter campaign and failed . it was on show at a maze , and it looked really decent with its cute graphics , jump pads and wide range of weapons with which to break stuff . sure , it looks a bit like torchlight , but it 's very clearly not torchlight as well , which makes its kickstarter failure all the more of a pity . if you 'd like to try it out for yourself , you can grab the alpha here .  htxt.africa is ...  privacy policy &amp; cookies  some important things you should know about this site .  we do use third party cookies on this site -- most notably from google -- primarily for the purposes of advertising . the neat thing about these are that you can opt out yourself over at google 's hq , if you read through advertising partners ( such as adclick africa ) may also drop a cookie on your machine . we also use an analytics cookie from google .  like all web servers , your ip address is logged when you visit htxt.africa in order that we can track traffic , but we do n't share these with anyone , ever .  email addresses collected for competition entries or discussion accounts are stored purely for that purpose and kept in a popi compliant manner . we will never share or sell these on , except in the rare incidence of a competition in which our promo partner insists on getting access to entries . in this case , it will be made very clear in the t&amp;cs for that compo that this will happen .  advert  you should probably check this notice at regular intervals as it 's likely to be updated soon .  complaints and corrections  unlike many news sites , we do n't necessarily proclaim that our reporting will always be unbiased , although we do maintain that most of the time it is . we our reporting is accurate and fair to all sides in a story .  advert  if you would like to contact us regarding a story which you feel is incorrect , unrepresentative or out and out defamatory , please contact us using the email address email protected . we 're happy to discuss story details with you and , where appropriate , publish valid corrections as soon as possible .  who makes htxt.africa ?  our writers ' bios are all over here . it 's a team of rather unparalleled experience and enthusiasm in every field .  advert  get in touch  our contact form is over here , but if you prefer to do things the old fashioned way , you can email us here , or even write to us at :  you can contact us via this form , and we 'll be updating with pgp and secure details soon .  advert  about htxt.africa  htxt.africa is south africa 's newest and most exciting tech blog , covering everything from the top end of government it investment and spending down -- fun . we cover far more of the latter than the former , in fact , and aim to make this the number one community for genuinely interesting stuff that 's coming from south africa and the rest of the continent .  we love games , 3d printers , start-ups and innovative apps that will save the world . we believe that all across the continent , tech is making a difference to people 's lives in ways that are revolutionising living and working . htxt.africa was born of the absolute certainty that there 's a tremendous amount of stuff that 's going on , and no-one is covering this stuff with the care , attention and enthusiasm that it deserves .