Breaking Bad actor in love with SA!
http://traveller24.news24.com/News/Breaking-Bad-actor-shows-SA-heaps-of-instagram-love-20140915

pics : breaking bad actor in love with sa !  related articles  cape town - jesse pinkman is best known for being the bat-shit crazy , crystal-cooking meth-head in the hit tv series breaking bad , saying stuff like , " yeah mr white ! you really do have a plan ! yeah science ! " or " you do n't need a criminal lawyer . you need a criminal lawyer " .  but we must say we 're quite taken aback by aaron paul , the actor who played pinkman , walter whites ' underdog sidekick .  paul has shared musings of poetic love and affection not only for his wife but for good old south africa too on his instagram account glass of whiskey as he appears to be making the most of cape town . take a look .  he is clearly smitten with his wife saying ... " pretty bird @laurenpaul8 just doing her pretty bird thing . i mean my good god look at this perfect little angel . ok bye . #southxsouthafrica "  any guesses pretty bird walked up a mountain and played in this waterfall . she really likes waterfalls . #southxsouthafrica " and here he gets a bit philosophical about life and love ... " it 's days like today that remind me that life is so incredibly fragile and we need to appreciate every single second and never forget how lucky we are to simply exist . thank you @samanthamarq for capturing in a single frame the true essence that lives and breathes thru lauren and i on a daily basis .  words of advise to everyone that happens to read this post ... burn that candle , drink that " special " bottle of wine and never lose sight of how perfect each and every one of you are .  explore this beautiful world and surround yourself with people you love and are inspired by . also , peanut butter cookies and milk are hands down the best combination of food/drink items that has ever existed . i love cookies so much . and also pizza . #southxsouthafrica " but it seems the breaking bad actor is not only falling takes in some wildlife in and around the southern tip of africa ... " fell in love with these rhinos today . #southxsouthafrica " and while his hash tags might seem a bit cryptic , his fans are having none of it posting comments on where exactly in cape town they think he is ... " love waking up to this . #imthecapetownnow #southxsouthafrica " here he seems to be enjoying pizza and some local red wine in what looks like a typical winelands setting ... " we sat here and pondered life and challenges while dirty cab swam thru our veins .  when girls wrestled with alligators and boys sat on the floor to simply get closer to excepting their fate , we are met with rooms full of cheese and bags full of muscles and at the end of it all my dear friend sucked his thumb the whole way home and screamed out " momma " anytime a glass of whiskey pointed at him .  life is full of misty memories and some are lost along the way but we all try and pick up as "  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our comments policy . should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so by clicking the ' report comment ' button to the right of each comment .