Morkel out of action for at least ten weeks
http://www.supersport.com/cricket/domestic-cricket/news/140915/Morkel_out_of_action_for_at_least_ten_weeks

cricket domestic cricket  morkel out of action for at least ten weeks  albie morkel , veteran of 108 international games for south africa , will probably miss the first half of the domestic season for the unlimited titans following an ankle operation on friday .  the 33-year old allrounder who played in 58 one day internationals and 49 t20 internationals as well as one test for south africa , torn two ankle ligaments on the pre-season tour to the southern cape in august .  " i will be out of action for at least ten weeks , but it could be more . it is disappointing , as i would miss the domestic t20-campaign . it would have been great to help the titans to qualify for the champions league twenty20 , " said morkel .  he added that the setback would prevent him from being part of the first half of the domestic momentum one day cup campaign .  morkel has the potential to be a devastating hitter in the middle period and can also pick up valuable wickets with .  he underlined his match-winning credentials in the cell c festival of cricket match between north versus south when his 22 off ten balls enabled the north to win by three wickets with one ball to spare in january .  " naturally , his loss for the first half of the season is a setback as he is a big player for the titans . he was looking forward to be part of our four-day domestic campaign as well , " said henry davids , skipper of the unlimited titans .  morkel played a pivotal role in powering the titans to a semifinal play-off against the sunfoil dolphins in the ram slam t20 challenge in 2013/2014-season .  but david miller denied the titans bragging rights in that semifinal with a swashbuckling 93 off only 37 balls .  the dolphins ultimately won the ram slam t20 challenge by edging the nashua cape cobras in the final .  apart from morkel , the titans will probably also be without their other inspirational allrounder david wiese , who is nursing an ankle injury and may be out of might miss the first sunfoil series match of the season for the titans against the bizhub highveld lions from 25th to 28th september at the wanderers .