Absa Centre of Entrepreneurship boosts 1 500 entrepreneurs
http://www.biznisafrica.co.za/absa-centre-of-entrepreneurship-boosts-1-500-entrepreneurs/

Related  Absa today , 30 October 2014 , announced that free access to basic communications technology , business support services , which include consultations , business facilities and infrastructural support at its Centre of Entrepreneurship in Newtown , Johannesburg , South Africa , has helped over 1500 entrepreneurs prosper their businesses .  Since its launch less than a year ago , the Centre of Entrepreneurship has managed to cut the costs traditionally associated with starting and running a business through offering business support services , meeting rooms , presentation facilities , hot desks and boardrooms . The bank is on the verge of offering new services that include BEE certificates and internet connectivity .  Through the bank 's Procurement Portal , a virtual marketplace that connects SME suppliers with Blue Chip companies and government bodies , the growth of especially small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ) has been fast tracked to encourage Corporate SA to pursue products or services from them . More than 23 000 SMEs and 3450 Corporate buyers are registered on the Portal and are actively using it .  supported by its Centre of Entrepreneurship , Happy Ralinala , Head of Absa Business Banking in South Africa said the centre 's success could also be attributed to the business advisory services , mentorship , business seminars , workshops , specialised training and access to business facilities offered to business owners .  Two such black , young South Africans -- Vonani Mathebula and Evans Parsons -- were singled out as entrepreneurs whose businesses demonstrated significant growth , development and profitability , while taking advantage of the centre 's services . Both run 100% Black-owned and profitable media and communications companies .  Led by Vonani Mathebula , Brains Empowerment ( Pty ) Ltd which publishes the Women Magazine . Boasting 33 800 copies sold to date , Vonani said the services offered by Absa 's Centre of Entrepreneurship have provided significant support in growing her business .  Evans Parsons said Vensy Media 's vision was to be the major link between society and the sports industry . Its five year goal is to expand to 120 employees and provide printed copies to countries in Africa .  Also addressing Absa Business Banking in Gauteng says " For local start-ups , the landscape has dramatically shifted : Costs to start and run a business -- especially day-to-day expenses -- have significantly increased . "  " Access to relevant non-financial support such as communications technology , office equipment and space or business consultation and training is important for business growth . We are proud that through offering this non-financial support , Absa 's Centre of Entrepreneurship brings more small business enterprises online and makes it easier to set up and grow a business , " he concluded .  Absa today , 30 October 2014 , announced that free access to basic communications technology , business support services , which include consultations , business facilities and infrastructural support at ...