Violence against women and children costs SA $173bn
http://mg.co.za/article/2014-10-30-violence-against-women-and-children-costs-sa-173bn

Violence holds a huge cost for our world . Globally the cost runs to more than 11% of the world 's GDP . But this is not mostly about the highly visible violence that dominates TV and news .  Civil wars and conflicts rumble far too long in far too many places like Syria and the Sudans , and they are devastating for those involved . Economists have measured the costs of all such conflict , from the death toll from civil wars , regular wars , terrorism along with the costs of refugees but also including the way conflicts can blight countries ' economic growth for decades .  Yet , their total impact , though important in specific hot-spots , is globally fairly small , with a total cost of about 0.2% of global GDP .  But surprisingly , other forms of violence are likely a much greater problem and they certainly deserve more of the world 's attention . This is the argument by James Fearon and Anke Hoeffler in a new research paper for the Copenhagen Consensus .  Take the , roughly nine people are murdered . If you measure the total cost , not just of homicides but assaults and the fear associated with these , the global cost runs to more than 1.4% of GDP . For sub-Saharan Africa , because of higher crime rate , the cost is nearly 4% of the region 's GDP .  This does not mean that the region loses some $86-billion each year from this violence , but rather that if we could avoid these murders and assaults , the region would be better off in a way that would be comparable with everyone being 4% richer .  But even murders are not the most important part of violence . The most devastating impact of violence comes from two areas that are often neglected , and the economic analysis shows us why we need to give them much more attention .  Abuse costs moreThe first area is child abuse : across the world , many children still have a very violent upbringing . Almost all parents use non-violent discipline like explaining why a certain behaviour was wrong and perhaps taking 15% of all children experience what the United Nations calls severe physical punishment . They are being slapped on the face , head and ears and 4% are even being beat up with an implement , being hit over and over as hard as possible . This is the fate of 290-million children across the world each month , with 125-million occurring in sub-Saharan Africa .  The economists estimate the cost of such child assault , not just from the obvious costs of increased child welfare interventions , but also from the well-documented loss of future earnings from an assaulted child . The total global cost reaches an astounding $3.5-trillion annually . For South Africa , the cost is estimated at $82-billion .  Violence against women is the biggest global cost , and it includes female infanticide , genital mutilation and incitement for widows to commit suicide . But far bigger is the cost of intimate partner violence , including being slapped , pushed , shoved , kicked , choked , burnt on purpose and forced to sex . Over the past year , this violence afflicted more than cost of such violence against women runs to $4.4-trillion per year , or about $91-billion just for South Africa . Together with violence against children , the social cost of violence reaches almost $173-billion in South Africa annually .  Best targetsThe world and the UN is trying to answer the question : What kind of world do you want in 2030 ? The focus is to find the best targets for the world to concentrate on .  That is why my think-tank , Copenhagen Consensus , has asked some of the world 's top economists to look at the economic , social and environmental costs and benefits of many different proposed targets , from areas like health , food and education to the thorny question of violence .  The economists find that a target to reduce civil wars could be achieved with more active deployment of peacekeeping forces . While costly , these could help prevent future civil wars , and the analysis shows that each dollar spent could do between $2 and $7 worth of good . They also find changing alcohol laws could partially reduce assaults assaults so much that the benefits outweighed cost 17 to one .  To reduce violence against women and girls , one program in Uganda , called SASA ! ( KiSwahili meaning " Now ! " ) promotes the view that violence against a partner is unacceptable , and has halved the level of violence . While such a program seems like a great idea , we still do n't have the analysis to show how much good it does for each dollar .  Reducing violence against children could be helped by strengthening social services . Studies from Washington state show that home visitation programs can reduce child abuse and hence reduce both further spending on child welfare and litigation , while helping the children avoid medical , mental health and quality of life costs . For each dollar spent the benefits could reach $13 to $14 .  We now need to start a conversation about which targets for the world we want to set . Knowing the costs and benefits on how to reduce violence is one part of that puzzle .  Dr. Bj ? rn Lomborg directs the Copenhagen Consensus Center , ranking the smartest solutions to the world 's biggest problems by cost-benefit . He is the author of The Skeptical Environmentalist and Cool It . His new book is How To Spend $75-billion to Make the World a Better Place .