Franschhoek Appellation Grand Prestige certification 2014
http://winemag.co.za/franschhoek-appellation-grand-prestige-certification-2014/

franschhoek appellation grand prestige certification 2014  the inaugural announcement of wines qualifying for franschhoek appellation grand prestige status were announced earlier today at foliage restaurant .  as winemag.co.za editor , i performed the role of master of ceremonies . here is my opening address :  what is appellation grand prestige ? it 's a special designation for franschhoek 's best wines -- in an over-traded market , any way of differentiating yourself from the competition and motivating the consumer to buy must be a good thing .  agp seeks to recognise not just quality but " regional typicity " , the focus on three varieties namely chardonnay , semillon and cabernet sauvignon , these being what have performed best historically .  agp is premised on the notion that wines should taste of the place where the grapes grow . south africa 's wine of origin scheme came about in the early 1970s and was based on the classification systems of europe . while some of it is compromised ( tulbagh included under coastal region , for instance ) there are parts of .  but punters are n't going to care unless producers put in the effort to make them care -- somebody recently commented that the agp is derivative of swartland independent and i would say : precisely . we need to invest meaning in the different appellations .  it 's important to be proactive . i used to joke that you went to franschhoek for the restaurants and to stellenbosch for the wine . and then stellenbosch went and got a whole bunch of decent restaurants ...  what agp does is compel critics and punters to engage with the wines . there 's stuff that i 've previously tended to overlook that really impresses me . in particular , i ca n't praise the district 's semillon highly enough .  agp is also useful in that it makes franschhoek distinct -- for too long wineries from outside the ward have traded off its fahsionability . chassagne-montrachet is n't puligny-montrachet and simondium should realise it is n't franschhoek ...  agp is ultimately a celebration of terroir . it 's an important concept but to be honest , i tasting of the world 's best cabernets , who 's going to be able to tell franschhoek from stellenbosch from bordeaux from napa with absolute certainty ?  for me , terroir definitely has a metaphysical component and what i think is great about today is that it celebrates not just wine but franschhoek craftsmanship in general . the trophies that winemakers with agp certified wines will shortly be receiving are from franschhoek oak by local woodworker stuart douglas and then there are chef chris erasmus 's canap ? s ...  the initiative was started by haut espoir 's rob armstrong , stony brook 's craig mcnaught and m ? reson 's clayton reabow . all bar a few wineries have bought in -- it 's inevitable that some will want to see proof of concept before committing but they will hopefully come around sooner rather than later ( i 'm talking about you , boekenhoutskloof and grand provance ) .  many thanks to cork supply sa , gv tec and anglo african finace as sponsors -- the reality is that initiatives like this do n't happen without some acknowledgement of the first wines to carry agp certification . there were 55 wines submitted and judging was done by a panel of 14 franschhoek winemakers and wine industry personalities . as clayton reabow put it , " we wanted to decide our own fate " .  special mention must be made of the following examples of chardonnay :  chamonix 2013  dieue donn ? 2013  glenwood grand duc 2011  la motte 2011  maison 2012  m ? reson mercator 2012  m ? reson dr reason why unwooded 2013  and then of the following examples of semillon :  la chataigne 2012  landau du val 2013  my wyn 2012  rickety bridge 2012  and of the following cab :  lynx 2012  there are ten wines to carry the agp designation for the first time and these consist of four examples of chardonnay , three semillon , two cabernet sauvignon and one white blend .