2014: A year of great action and nasty scandals for world of sport
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/2014-A-year-of-great-action-and-nasty-scandals-for-world-of-sport/articleshow/45657344.cms

2014 : A year of great action and nasty scandals for world of sport  Roger Federer is considered the greatest tennis player of all time and the manner in which he has collected a record 17 Grand Slams over the years proves it .  TNN Dec 27 , 2014 , 11.02 AM IST  Roger Federer and Sania Mirza of the Indian Aces inaction during the International Premier Tennis League ( IPTL ... Read More  The world of sport saw some great action and some nasty scandals in 2014 . We look at some of the HIGHS &amp; LOWS ...  HIGHS OF 2014  ROGER FEDERER WINS DAVIS CUP , FINALLY : Roger Federer is considered the greatest tennis player of all time and the manner in which he has collected a record 17 Grand Slams over the years proves it . However , there was one frontier he had not conquered till 2014 and that was the Davis Cup . Federer scaled this summit this year when Switzerland beat France last month to win the tournament in Lille . To make things singles tie against Richard Gasquet to seal the deal 3-1 .  DOUBLE DELIGHT : FOR ' CELTIC TIGER ' Who says break-ups are bad ? Atleast Rory McIlroy proved it otherwise after parting ways with Danish tennis star Caroline Wozniacki . The Northern Irishman roared back to the World No. 1 spot winning two Majors this year after a heartbreaking 2013 , where he failed to win a single title on both the USPGA and European Tours . McIlroy clinched the British Open and PGA Championship in dominating fashion prompting experts to call him the ' Celtic Tiger ' - equating him with golfing superstar Tiger Woods . McIlroy 's British Open title also helped his dad win a longtime bet over his friend upon his son grabbing the Claret Jug before he turns 25 .  SAN ANTONIO END MIAMI 'S REIGN : San Antonio Spurs snapped Miami Heat 's streak of 11 straight playoff series win record besides registering a 70-point differential and 52.8% shooting from the field to end the latter 's two-year reign in NBA . It was an inspiring display of teamwork and skill , Tim Duncan , Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili in their side , it was easy for Spurs to score some big wins . Kawhi Leonard was named Finals MVP .  KOBE BRYANT SURPASSES MICHAEL JORDAN : When basketball superstar Kobe Bryant scored his 32,293rd point during an NBA game between Los Angeles Lakers and Minnesota Timberwolves on December 14 , he surpassed Michael Jordan 's record for points and put himself in third place on the list of top-scorers . The players who lead him at the moment are Kareem AbdulJabbar ( 38,387 points ) and Karl Malone ( 36,928 points ) . " Jordan 's been such a huge part of my success and career in giving me advice . The relationship has meant everything to me , " said Bryant after the game .  INDIA OPENS ITS DOORS TO SUPERSTARS : 2014 was also the year when sporting superstars descended on the subcontinent . First to make headlines was golf legend Tiger Woods , who came in February on invitation from Hero Motocorp . It was then the turn of Swiss ace Roger Federer and current World International Premier Tennis League ( IPTL ) . Other tennis legends Pat Cash , Martina Hingis and Venus Williams also regaled Indian aficionados in the Vijay Amritraj-backed Champions Tennis League ( CTL ) .  LOWS OF 2014  LEE CHONG WEI 'S DRUG BAN : Badminton fans were taken by surprise when Malaysia 's World No. 1 Lee Chong Wei was provisionally suspended last month after the shuttler tested positive for the illegal anti-inflammatory drug dexamethasone at the World Championships in August . The panel set up by the Badminton World Federation ( BWF ) will conduct an enquiry in early 2015 and the silver medallist of the 2008 and 2012 Olympics is confident he will clear his name .  Lee Chong Wei of Malaysia in action against Chen Long of China during the Li-Ning BWF World Badminton Championships in Copenhagen , Denmark . ( Getty Images )  FAVOURITES RUSSIA FREEZE IN SOCHI : Russia have always been the favourites to win gold in ice hockey and there was tremendous pressure on the team to deliver as hosts for the Sochi Winter Olympics . However , the Russians in a do-or-die qualifier , only to come up trumps later . They won four games in five days thereon till their dreams of claiming gold were crushed by Finland , who defeated them 3-1 in the quarterfinal .  F1 SAFETY UNDER SPOTLIGHT : Formula One endured its most dreaded moment this October when Marussia driver Jules Bianchi suffered severe head injuries and went into coma for more than a month . Bianchi 's car skidded off a wet Suzuka track during the Japanese Grand Prix and rammed into a tractor that was recovering Adrian Sutil 's Sauber . Bianchi 's injury brought the issue of safety under spotlight once again in F1 , 20 years after Brazilian legend Ayrton Senna 's death at Imola in 1994 .  VETTEL FAILS TO GET GOING : While Mercedes teammates Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg went from strength to strength this year , winner of four consecutive Formula One titles with Red Bull - Sebastian Vettel - flopped in 2014 . Vettel remained winless for the entire season despite pocketing the last nine races of 2013 . An underperforming Renault engine and the German driver 's dismal show .  AUSTERITY AT INCHEON ASIAD : For long , cities hosting mega-sporting events have struggled to justify the enormous expenses they incur . So Incheon , which hosted the Asian Games this year , conducted the Games with a modest budget . However , the hosts took thriftiness to such lengths that most people concerned with the Games were left complaining about a host of issues .  NEWSMAKERS  JAMES RODRIGUEZ : Rodriguez 's stunning goal for Colombia against Uruguay at the World Cup in Brazil made him an overnight sensation and this strike went a long way in helping him finish the year as Google 's most searched sportsman . The striker is now showcasing his skills for Real Madrid in Spain .  MICHAEL SCHUMACHER : Formula One legend Michael Schumacher hit his head on a rock while skiing in the French Alps on December 29 last year . So severe was the impact that it sent him into a medically induced coma . Schumi is making slow recovery and the last bit of information that came about his recovery was recently claimed : " He is getting better but everything is relative . It 's very difficult . He ca n't speak . Like me , he is in a wheelchair paralyzed . "  JULES BIANCHI : Marussia driver Jules Bianchi ( 25 ) crashed in wet conditions into a recovery vehicle at the Japanese GP on October 5 and suffered severe head injuries . This accident once again turned the spot light on F1 's safety standards . According to latest reports , Bianchi is no longer in artificial coma . " Following a challenging period of neurological intensive care , we are able to announce Jules has made an important step , " his parents Philippe and Christine Bianchi said last month . Bianchi was sufficiently stable and was taken to his native France .  MICHAEL PHELPS : Swimming legend Michael Phelps was in the spotlight this year for his arrest on September 30 in Baltimore for drunken driving . The 18-time gold medallist pleaded guilty to this charge on December 19 and was handed a one-year suspended prison sentence and 18 months of supervised probation . the Beijing Olympics , Phelps was photographed smoking from a bong during a party at the University of South Carolina .  RAY RICE : American football star Ray Rice hit the headlines when celebrity gossip website TMZ released footage of Rice punching his wife in an Atlantic City elevator earlier this year . The blow knocked her unconscious . What outraged observers more was the NFL 's decision to hand the player a two-match ban . Later , his team Baltimore Ravens terminated the running back 's contract and he is now a free agent .  From around the web  More from The Times of India  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive .