Stranded, they dig up troves of Antarctic data
http://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/science/stranded-they-dig-up-troves-of-antarctic-data/article6731037.ece

Stranded , they dig up troves of Antarctic data  Rescued scientists bring back a warning about changes at the southern ice cap  The voyage was meant to retrace the steps of Douglas Mawson , the great polar explorer and scientist who led the Australasian Antarctic Expedition of 1911 . What happened instead captured the world 's attention , something none of the scientists , journalists and paying public aboard could have foreseen .  The Akademik Shokalskiy got stuck in ice on Christmas Day 2013 only two weeks after leaving New Zealand . A rescue mission swung into operation . Chinese , French and Australian icebreakers hurried to the scene only to be defeated by the ice floes .  With no icebreaker able to smash way through , a Chinese helicopter , Xue Ying ( Snow Eagle ) , rose into the air for the first of five flights to ferry passengers from the stricken ship . A core crew remained behind to sail vessel home once conditions allowed .  Media interest in the expedition faded after the rescue , but in the been busy . Scientific samples and measurements from the voyage are being turned into research papers that reveal striking changes at the southern ice cap . And rather than feeling discouraged about expeditions that are funded by paying passengers , Mr. Turney is more enthusiastic than ever .  " Once we got back home and made sure everyone was all right , we got on with working up the data and getting a whole load of papers ready for submission , " he said .  Like the rescue mission , this involved plenty of waiting . " It took nearly six months to get all the samples through quarantine . " Simple observations told unhappy stories . Trawls of water reeled in hauls of plastic rubbish , now seemingly ubiquitous in the world 's oceans . On land , counts of Adelie penguins revealed the population had slumped near Mawson 's huts in Commonwealth Bay in East Antarctica . The birds are now commuting 40 miles to get food for their young .  " Another 10 years there probably wo n't be many left , " said Mr. too .  Commonwealth Bay has experienced substantial changes in recent years . In summertime fierce katabatic winds blow off the continent and chill the surrounding surface water to freezing point . The freshly created ice blows out to sea , as if on a production line . But the freezing process leaves behind cold , dense water that sinks to the sea floor , forming part of an oceanic current that drives circulation on a global scale .  The ocean circulation at Commonwealth Bay was disrupted in 2010 after an enormous iceberg , B09B , arrived . The 30 mile -- long slab of ice smashed into the nearby Mertz glacier tongue and grounded itself at the entrance to the bay . That blocked the exit for fresh sea ice . As the ice built up , the ocean conveyor system partially closed down .  Such changes were bound to impact on life beneath the ice . Scientists inspected ecosystems on the sea floor . " You see this remarkable transition with the expansion of sea ice . A lot of kelp and other life on the seabed of the deeper flora and fauna , as they come up from the deeper seabed because there 's an ecological niche to be filled , " said Mr. Turney . The shift in the ecosystem is expected to have impacts all the way up the food chain .