KRK to receive Bharat Ratna
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/mocktale/KRK-to-receive-Bharat-Ratna/articleshow/45658622.cms

it 's official . krk -- the practical comedian , an indian film actor , producer and writer , and the one who unintentionally makes fun of himself -- has been conferred with bharat ratna , the highest civilian award of the republic of india .  upon knowing that he will be receiving this prestigious award , krk tweeted , " i am a 2 crore rupees person and everybody else in this country is 2 rupees people only . kiss to my new award and kick to people who are giving the award ! " some believe that his tweets are encrypted ; only he can interpret and explain them correctly .  bharat ratna is conferred " in recognition of exceptional service or performance of the highest order , " without distinction of race , occupation , position , or sex . hence , the news of krk receiving the award has come as no surprise to anyone . he was recommended for the award because of his contribution towards uniting the entire country against him . his claim to fame was his first character in the movie main villain that was inspired by his real life story .  the award was originally limited to achievements in the arts , literature , science and public services but the government expanded the criteria to include " any field of human endeavour " in december 2011 . an online survey was conducted and people were asked to vote for recommendations . along with krk , others competing in this category was cricket , bollywood , religion and language . the award committee was surprised to see that nothing else in this country unites people more than their hatred towards krk .  his other achievements include appearing on season 3 of small boss and being nominated for eviction every consecutive week . he became the first contestant to be prematurely kicked out from the small boss house because of his violent behaviour towards his fellow contestants .  krk 's first film was banned in maharashtra by the state government because of riot concerns . he has shown that bravado of openly taking on a popular south indian superstar , gajini kant , by making derogatory still very proud of it and every now and then keeps tweeting about the same .  choose your reason below and click on the submit button . this will alert our moderators to take action  name  reason for reporting :  foul language  defamatory  inciting hatred against a certain community  out of context/spam  others  your reason has been submitted to the admin .  it 's official . krk -- the practical comedian , an indian film actor , producer and writer , and the one who unintentionally makes fun of himself -- has been conferred with bharat ratna , the highest civilian award of the republic of india .