Replace history books written by Britishers: Swamy
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Replace-history-books-written-by-Britishers-Swamy/articleshow/45662226.cms

replace history books written by britishers : swamy  bjp leader subramanian swamy on saturday advocated replacing history books written by britishers in pre-independence era , alleging they had " distorted " facts about india .  pti dec 27 , 2014 , 10.02 pm ist  the bjp leader also said that sanskrit should be made compulsory in schools .  varanasi : bjp leader subramanian swamy on saturday advocated replacing history books written by britishers in pre-independence era , alleging they had " distorted " facts about india .  addressing students at banaras hindu university 's swatantrata bhawan hall , he said the history books written by indians should be promoted instead of the ones written by the britishers .  swamy said that even in the course books of schools and colleges the facts about hindu kings should be mentioned more than the mughal emperors like akbar , aurangzeb and others .  he said there was a need for rebuilding temples in places where they were allegedly demolished and mosques built .  the bjp leader also said that sanskrit should be mother tongue , sanskrit should be made compulsory as the secondary language , " he said .  he also alleged that the uttar pradesh government is " forcibly " getting firs registered on conversion issue but there is no law regarding conversions in the state like the one in madhya pradesh , odisha and himachal pradesh .  " conversions will continue in other states also . this process has been going on for ages , " the bjp leader said .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the @ @ @