VHP in Kerala to continue 'ghar vapsi' programme
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/VHP-in-Kerala-to-continue-ghar-vapsi-programme/articleshow/45659127.cms

VHP in Kerala to continue ' ghar vapsi ' programme  A batch of people would reconvert to Hinduism at a function to be held here on January 1 , VHP state general secretary Bhargava Ram told reporters here .  PTI Dec 27 , 2014 , 03.10 PM IST  VHP in Kerala to continue ' ghar vapsi ' programme  01:27  Related Videos  We do n't want to convert the w ...  Bajrang Dal 's controversial ca ...  BJP not in favour of reservation on name ...  Christian Bale 's hot photos ...  Tipu Sultan anniversary issue : VHP worke ...  VHP leader killed in protest march in Ka ...  Asking religion before name a new trend : ...  I 'm everyone 's PM , no matter their relig ...  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : Announcing plans to continue with their ' ghar vapsi ' programme in Kerala , Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Saturday asserted that no forcible conversions were taking place here and said it would help those who wanted to embrace Hinduism .  A batch be held here on January 1 , VHP state general secretary Bhargava Ram told reporters here .  He said ' home coming ' was not a new happening and it became a controversy only after Congress and Left parties tried to derive political mileage over the issue in the recent assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir .  He alleged that most of the conversions from Hinduism to other religions took place due to appeasement .  The conversion issue has been in the limelight in Kerala since past one week after some members of a particular community reconverted to Hinduism as part of the ' ghar vapsi ' ( home coming ) programme of the VHP .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .