Promoters of Radisson Blu Dwarka looking to raise $56M
http://www.vccircle.com/news/real-estate/2014/02/05/promoters-radisson-blu-dwarka-looking-raise-56m

promoters of radisson blu dwarka looking to raise $56m  they have been unable to raise capital due to valuation mismatch .  by lohit jagwani  the promoters of radisson blu hotel located at dwarka in south west delhi are looking to raise around rs 350 crore ( $56 million ) by selling a minority stake in the property , sources privy to the development told vccircle .  the property is owned by satish pawa , who is also the promoter of jagat agro commodities pvt ltd which sells rice under ' jagat ' brand . according to sources , pawa has been looking to sell stake in the property for some time now but has not been able to find a buyer because of the valuation mismatch .  " they have been looking to dilute around 20-25 per cent stake to raise rs 350 crore but this kind of valuation is difficult in the current market scenario , " said one of the sources .  further , the company also has debt of around rs 350 crore which the promoters have been .  an email questionnaire and a fax addressed to pawa on the development did not elicit any response .  the 209-room hotel , located at sector 13 dwarka , is run by carlson rezidor group . apart from radisson blu , the hospitality group manages brands like radisson , park inn by radisson , park plaza and country inns &amp; suites by carlson .  carlson rezidor at present manages 65 hotels in the country and looking to have 100 operational hotels by 2016 . typically international hotel chains partner local property owners , including builders , to set up hotel projects and run the property through management contract while lending their brands .  the hotel industry has been going through a difficult time with a number of companies looking to sell some of their properties to pay off debt picked to construct the hotel . there have also been several other investments at the initial stage of the project .