Explore the wild side of Munnar- Online Exclusive
http://www.dnaindia.com/lifestyle/explore-the-wild-side-of-munnar-online-exclusive-1959621

explore the wild side of munnar- online exclusive  planning a trip to munnar ? there 's more to munnar than tea gardens . banu solaiappan tells you what you can do there  my husband , being the spontaneous kind , whisked my brother and me on a two-day trip to munnar . driving down from thrissur to munnar , was uneventful for the first couple of hours of the four-hour drive , but the fun began at angamaly -- where the ghat begins -- singing along to the music that the driver played and gawking at the lush greenery on either side of the road . after spending most part of my life in one concrete jungle or the other , the scent of the dense bushes and trees was refreshing .  we stayed in a two-bedroom cottage in the middle of a forest ; there is something about waking up to the chirping of birds . the place is a photographer 's paradise !  munnar has something for everyone . you can contact the dtpc office in the main town and can from there . adventure seekers can camp overnight , trek ( 2 , 4 , 6 , or 8 hours ) , outdoor rock climbing , and river crossing . but we opted for a more relaxed holiday . our first stop was by a tea estate . as i dressed up in a tea estate worker 's attire and had my picture taken i remembered why little girls like dressing up ! next , we went to elephant park . six tame elephants of the same height and size at one place and moving at the same pace , was a sight to behold . but feeling the giant creature 's muscles moving under you when it walked , was an unexplainable experience altogether .  our next stop was the boat house at maatuppatty dam . wearing life jackets , we stepped onto the boat for a 20-minute ride in the lake surrounded by majestic eucalyptus trees . a few minutes into the ride , i let out a shriek as the boat driver maneuvered the boat to draw a figure eight . apparently , all boat drivers do the speciality of the boat ride !  our last stop was kundala dam where we enjoyed a leisure walk and admired the birds and the lake . the temperature started dropping and a quick cup of hot tea later , we returned to our cottage .  do n't miss : a night trek ; set up a tent , camp overnight and return the next day . if you are going to munnar from coimbatore , visit chinnar wildlife sanctuary , thoovaanam waterfalls , and eravikulam national park . at chinnar wildlife sanctuary , you can go on a trek with a tribal guide to see 2000-year old rock paintings . from there , you can trek to thoovaanam waterfalls.laid-back tourists can try bird watching and a tour of a tea factory .  do n't miss : a visit to the tour factory . walk along with the tea estate workers and pluck tea leaves ; bring them back to the factory , and the workers will guide you on how to process tea . process a kilo of your own tea leaves and take them home . film about munnar.