Center clears widening of Ambala-Kaithal road
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/Center-clears-widening-of-Ambala-Kaithal-road/articleshow/30172469.cms

center clears widening of ambala-kaithal road  haryana public works ( building and roads ) minister , randeep singh surjewala said that national highway authority of india has given approval of four laning of national highway 65 from ambala to kaithal .  tnn feb 10 , 2014 , 07.02 pm ist  chandigarh : haryana public works ( building and roads ) minister , randeep singh surjewala said that national highway authority of india has given approval of four laning of national highway 65 from ambala to kaithal . a sum of rs 724 crore would be spent on four laning of this 96 kilometer long road . central government has invited tenders for this big project and its work would start soon .  surjewala said that this project has been approved by central government under national highway development programme .  he said that kaithal would emerge as new commercial centre with such big projects and with its being set up as main centre , new dimensions of economic development would be set up .  he said that section 3a has been implemented and most of the area has been informed about it . this project is being made on bot toll model .  he said that under this project , four new bypasses have been approved including kaithal bypass , pehowa bypass , ismailabad bypass and ambala bypass . all bypasses would be set up by following modern standards .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .