River Over bridges to cause problem in traffic movement
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/lucknow/River-Over-bridges-to-cause-problem-in-traffic-movement/articleshow/30156878.cms

river over bridges to cause problem in traffic movement  the city is expected to get four new railway over bridges by june this year but along with convenience , it may also increase incidences of accidents and inconveniences to the commuting people . in some places , abrupt cuts have been made in the divider while in other cases , two flyovers have been made to converge right in the centre at roundabout maximizing chances of road accidents .  tnn feb 10 , 2014 , 01.30 pm ist  lucknow : the city is expected to get four new railway over bridges by june this year but along with convenience , it may also increase incidences of accidents and inconveniences to the commuting people .  in some places , abrupt cuts have been made in the divider while in other cases , two flyovers have been made to converge right in the centre at roundabout maximizing chances of road accidents .  few days ago , locals had opposed construction of railway over bridges in puraniya and alamnagar area due to growing inconvenience in and continues making railway over bridges .  the under construction lohiya railway over bridge ( converted from cycle track ) is being extended to protect the graveyard of ujariaon village . the bridge was already 1 km longer and to accommodate the graveyard , it has further been extended by 200 kms . as a result , the slope of bridge is falling hardly 10 metre away from lohiaya chouraha .  this may increase chances of accidents as vehicles coming from bridges may bump into others moving around chouraha . similarly puraniya bridge is coming in the way of keshavnagar route . the 1100 metre long bridge 's construction started in june last year but local complain that corporation is repeating the same mistake it did in raidas temple crossing . one end of bridge is falling towards the divider of sitapur road which may lead to accidents by people coming from keshavnagar .  the 900 metre long alamnagar railway over bridge whose construction started last year has left no space for residents of one end to move to the other end . the bridge is being constructed bridge is posing problems to locals of badshahkeda , mayapuram and other adjoining localities as no space has been left for them to move towards the opposite side . a retaining wall has been made in between which would force people to move towards rajajipuram and alamnagar through the railway over bridge .  though railway over bridge on mall avenue crossing is expected to reduce traffic burden on kataiwala bridge but it would increase problems for people moving from cant area towards vip road .  currently , the vehicles easily pass cant area and move towards vip road in full speed . but once bridge comes into existence , the vehicles moving from cant to sultanpur road will face traffic snarls whereas people driving on mall avenue bridge would have to carefully coke down while moving towards vip road as they may hit other vehicles coming from sultanpur road and kataiwala bridge .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .