Google aims to bring half a million SMBs online in India by the end ...
http://tech.firstpost.com/news-analysis/google-aims-bring-smbs-online-india-219147.html

google aims to bring half a million smbs online in india by the end of 2015  google is working hard at getting more local businesses to sign up for its services in india . it aims to help bring around five lakh small and medium businesses ( smb ) in india online by the end of next year and is already more than half way there .  the internet giant already has three lakh smbs in its kitty and aims to add two lakh more by the end of 2015 . google 's vp and global head of smbs , allan thygesen said that google aims to increase the number of partners and support teams in the country to build its user base in india . " helping smbs succeed online is the key to our long-term success in india . there is a tremendous opportunity for small businesses to grow if they take advantage of online tools , and it will result in a better experience for users and for businesses , " thygesen was quoted as saying by the times of india . us to become the largest internet market in the world , and it only makes sense for google to woo smbs in the country and bring them online . as of now , barely five percent of the 50 million smbs in india have an online presence , a figure google would be looking at changing soon .  k suryanarayana , google india 's smb head said that it was affordable smartphones and the growth in the rate of its adoption which was bringing more users online . indian smbs , however , have been slow to adopt the online medium and strategise it because of lack of time and understanding of not just the internet but also the self service model , he said .  thygsen also pointed out to the fact that digital advertising spends form only 7 percent of the total ad spends for indian enterprises , compared to 30 percent in the us . the e-commerce industry by itself which was at about $10 billion in 2013 is to touch $80-$100 billion marks by 2020.