OMRON Healthcare India introduces innovative cardiovascular ...
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/OMRON-Healthcare-India-introduces-innovative-cardiovascular-screening-monitor/articleshow/31118890.cms

mumbai:omron healthcare india , a key player in the health care segment providing innovative devices for monitoring vitals - has introduced omron vp-1000 plus . it is a non-invasive vascular screening monitor for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases .  the company is one of the key players in the home monitoring segment . based on advanced bio information sensing technology , omron vp-1000 has numerous features including the tbi package which makes it unique in the market . it brings together the techniques of blood pressure monitoring and pulse wave measurements to act as a communication platform between human body and medical professionals so that they are able to monitor and treat cardiovascular patients in a reliable , accurate , effective and a well-timed manner .  " with a rapid increase in number of cardiovascular patients in india , i feel that there is an urgent need of innovative equipment like omron vp-1000 plus . we strive to bring to india newer technologies to help the hospitals , clinics and medical institutes build effective infrastructure so that they are able to provide better solutions to . vascular scanners are being globally used in medical facilities with numerous clinical validations , " said shinya tomoda , md , omron healthcare india .  the device provides easy and quantitative assessment of vascular conditions of human body . it uses a wide array of functions to providecomprehensive user-specific reports suiting different needs and purposes . for example , for patients the reports have easy-to -follow illustrations of the heart and the blood vessels ; for doctors , the reports consist of lots of values indicating the pathological conditions . this is very helpful in improving patients ' response to medications . considering the importance of user interface and portability , the device comes with a touch panel . it also has pre-installed network functions to support electronic medical records .  owing to the complexity of risk factors involved in cardiovascular diseases , such as high blood pressure , obesity , diabetes , ldl cholesterol , sedentary lifestyle , the device provides a profound insight into the diagnosis by mapping varied parameters , thus making it versatile to suit all kinds of requirements .  related  from  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .