Two fake currency rackets busted
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/visakhapatnam/Two-fake-currency-rackets-busted/articleshow/31068198.cms

Two fake currency rackets busted  City police arrested eight members of two separate gangs , including an assistant director of Tollywood , involved in the circulation of counterfeit currency in the Port city and its surrounding areas on Wednesday .  TNN Feb 27 , 2014 , 03.59 AM IST  VISAKHAPATNAM : City police arrested eight members of two separate gangs , including an assistant director of Tollywood , involved in the circulation of counterfeit currency in the Port city and its surrounding areas on Wednesday .  Police , who seized fake currency of the face value of Rs 3.35 lakh in denominations of Rs 100 and Rs 500 from the gangs , identified one of the gang members as an assistant director in Telugu cinema , Bhupati Teja .  City police commissioner B Shivdhar Reddy told media persons that 34-year-old Bhupati Teja , a native of Anakapalle in the district who had worked as an assistant director for a few Telugu movies , hatched a plan with D Kiran Kumar ( 29 ) , Chinthalapudi Satyavara Prasad ( 25 ) , P 20 ) , all residents of Vizag , to start a counterfeit currency racket .  The police chief said that Teja had gone to Malda in West Bengal and obtained counterfeit currency that was printed in Bangladesh and returned to the Port city a few weeks ago .  Acting on a tip-off , PM Palem police led by Madhurawada assistant commissioner of police K Ranga Raju and his team , including inspector Thirupathi , arrested Teja and his gang near the ACA-VDCA cricket stadium at PM Palem in the city when the gang was in the possession of counterfeit currency . Police also recovered fake Indian currency of the face value of Rs 2.31 lakh in denominations of Rs 100 from them .  In another break through the same police of PM Palem police station arrested three persons and recovered fake Indian currency of Rs 1.04 lakh in denominations of Rs 100 and Rs 500 from them . The gang led by Nammi Srinivasa Rao ( 25 ) , a scrap merchant at Gajuwaka in the city and Mohammed Yasin ( 40 ) of the same locality were revealed that they got acquainted with Ali of Bangladesh , who was arrested in a counterfeit currency case , when they were in central prison .  After being released from prison , Rao , Yasin and T Satyanarayana ( 32 ) had gone to Malda of West Bengal and obtained counterfeit currency from Ali 's gang . They then took Rs 35,000 genuine currency in exchange for Rs 1 lakh fake currency to some persons in the city .  Police arrested Rao , Yasin and Satyanarayana and said that Yasin was also involved in a counterfeit currency case under Kancharapalem police station limits in the city last year .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .