Congress subtle acceptance of defeat; Moots Mamata for PM
http://www.indileak.com/congress-subtle-acceptance-of-defeat-moots-mamatas-for-pm/

Congress subtle acceptance of defeat ; Moots Mamata for PM  New Delhi : Contrary to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi 's posturing , party leader Rashid Alvi on the eve of the Lok Sabha election results , on Wednesday suggested that all regional secular parties should come together and elect West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as the leader to keep BJP out of power .  Even Alvi unhesitatingly admitted that it may be difficult for Congress to form the government  Fully aware of Mamata Banerjees 's stand vis-a-vis the BJP and its leader Narendra Modi , Alvi deftly mooted the name of West Bengal chief minister , ignoring what his party vice-president Rahul Gandhi had said recently regarding the possibility of extending support to a Third Front government .  It may be recalled that during the course of electioneering , Rahul Gandhi had outrightly rejected the idea of his party supporting a secular front in case the UPA falls short of the required numbers .  Is Alvi 's latest utterance a clear case of defiance or the Congress after finally realising what effort to stop Modi from taking over the reins from Manmohan Singh , is the big question doing rounds in the political circles . " It could be either , as someone within the Congress is certainly going to throw the gauntlet and challenge the might of Gandhi scion before things really take a turn for the worst , " feel political observers .  Even Alvi unhesitatingly admitted that it may be difficult for Congress to form the government , he said , " It may be difficult for us to form the government , but all secular forces should come together to keep Narendra Modi at bay . "  He suggested that all regional secular parties should come together and elect their leader . " Congress party will never hesitate to support a secular government , " asserted Alvi .  " I suggest that regional parties should elect Mamata Banerjee , who is secular , competent and honest beyond doubt , as their leader , " added Alvi .  Erecting a firewall to save Rahul after uttering somethings which was diametrically opposite to his stand , and truth will come out tomorrow , Alvi said , " Whether the Congress conquers the electoral battle or loses it , we all shall be responsible for the credit or discredit . It will be injustice for anyone to only blame the leadership of Congress . "  Meanwhile , another Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit conceded defeat before the declaration of results by stating that he was unlikely to win .  " I can speak for myself . I am unlikely to win . But I do n't speak for the party , " Dikshit told an Engligh News Channel .