Organized retail could grow to $200 billion
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Organized-retail-could-grow-to-200-billion/articleshow/37126563.cms

organized retail could grow to $200 billion  organized retail could grow from $40 billion to $200 billion in the next five to seven years .  tnn jun 24 , 2014 , 05.55 pm ist  mumbai : organized retail could grow from $40 billion to $200 billion in the next five to seven years , with successful models of retail namely food and grocery sectors to footwear to lifestyle products doing well and giving high returns to the investor , rakesh jhunjhunwala , partner , rare enterprises , said at the cii national retail summit here on tuesday .  it was stated that 2014 would be a good year for retailing in india as income levels have risen for much of the indian population . domestic brands and local companies remained dominant among the players operating in retailing in india during 2014 . in spite of various relaxations made to the rules regarding foreign direct investment in india in , international companies remain cautious about india , according to j suresh , md and ceo , arvind lifestyle brands .  as an industry ( fii ) participation in retail , as it will ease the funds crunch especially for unlisted retailers . in addition , there is much anticipation that there will be more clarity on the rollout of gst , which will help in uniform taxation across states and ease the service tax pressure .  over the past decade , the fmcg ( fast moving consumer goods ) sector of india has been annually growing at a consistent rate of 11% . this double digit growth each year has been possible by increasing consumer demands . in the past five years the growth had then accelerated to 17% . however , indian companies are striving hard to keep up with ever-changing consumer preferences .  kurush grant , chairman , cii national committee on fmcg 2014-15 and executive director , fmcg businesses , itc , said over the last year , fmcg has come under pressure and hence what is needed by the industry is to think about what to do to recreate itself . there is a need to understand the consumer better and finally the last mile connectivity -- the fmcg businesses .  a report titled " changing your orbit - the handbook for transformation in fmcg &amp; retail businesses " by cii and the boston consulting group , was unveiled and it highlights the need and approach of how an integrated top-down effort to drive successful transformation can be undertaken in the fmcg and retail industries .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .