Affordable Fashions: New designer in Mumbai offers bespoke ...
http://www.dnaindia.com/lifestyle/report-affordable-fashions-new-designer-in-mumbai-offers-bespoke-clothing-at-a-budget-1997567

" I love that top , but the neckline makes my face so long . These palazzos are so comfortable , but they make me look short and stout ... Aargh ! " How often have you walked into a shop , tried on clothes , and thought , " If I could just change this one thing about the outfit , it would look perfect " ? Similar experiences led 24-year-old Jennifer Mehta to start Je Couturier , to offer women clothes customised based on their taste and comfort . " I was always extremely thin and found it difficult to get the right fit . The few that fit were expensive . So I 'd cut off sleeves or tweak clothes to suit my body . Eventually , my parents bought me a sewing machine and by the time I was 18 , I was making outfits for myself . Friends started asking me to design for them too and in one year I made 20 outfits for others . " Despite this she pursued a career as a marketing professional , until a year style of ready-made shirts , I also designed my own office-wear : shirts , skirts , blouses , dresses ... They reflected my personality , so I could carry them off with confidence . When clients noticed my clothes and asked me to design for them , I realised this is what I want to do and studied designing from Modart in Mumbai . " But Mumbai has no dearth of good seamstresses , tailors and designers . So what makes Je Couturier different ? " While many customise Indian clothes well , none do it minutely for western wear , especially in the daily-wear segment . And definitely not at our rates . Besides giving customers fashionable outfits , I try to understand who they are and what they want . I explain the colours that suit their skin tone , necklines that match their facial structure and sleeves that suit their arms . I plan designs that give their bodies a balanced look . " Although Jennifer displays samples at her little shop in Bandra , none are for sale . She takes each client through a detailed session concept , she models for her own designs and prices her apparels ( all kinds of western- wear ) reasonably . For instance , gowns cost ' 10,000-15,000 ' and tops ' 1,500-2,500 ' . Given a budget , she also creates an entire office range for some clients . " Office wear has to suit the client 's profession , but also has to be trendy and impressive . I use colours , styling and combine image consulting tools with design to give clients height , a powerful presence or anything else they require . " She does n't sell Indian wear , but for her bridal package , she conceptualises the outfits and gets them made with her specifications . " I create a complete look , advising on jewellery , shoes and make-up too . The minimum budget of 50,000 , covers all the outfits and my fees . "  Jennifer 's Tips : Ideal necklines to match your face  Round Face Halter , cowl , narrow-long V and square necks work better for a round face , as they give it more structure , making Oval Face An oval face has a better balanced structure , so there 's no harm in highlighting the face . Crew , boat , key-hole and turtle necks work best for oval faces and the off-shoulder style too .  Heart-shaped Face While crew , balanced V , boat and sweet-heart necks are the most suitable , persons with a heartshaped face can carry off almost any neckline without a problem .  Square Face You want necklines that will soften the more-defined facial features of persons with a square face ; turtle , balanced round and cowl necks do this by lending a feminine touch .  Triangle Face For the sharp jawline of a triangle face , you need a halter , scoop or sweetheart neck .  Diamond Face While the oval face looks best on a model 's figure , the diamond shaped face is the ideal for an average person . It 's best to opt for halter , crew , scoop and sweetheart necks .  While it is important to consider the structure of the face when choosing the neckline , the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @