Rajkot police booked 11 persons in businessman suicide case
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/rajkot/Rajkot-police-booked-11-persons-in-businessman-suicide-case/articleshow/37127011.cms

rajkot police booked 11 persons in businessman suicide case  11 persons have been booked in connection with the suicide of city-based businessman .  tnn jun 24 , 2014 , 06.12 pm ist  rajkot : 11 persons have been booked in connection with the suicide of city-based businessman .  rajesh sagapariya , 50 , who along with his wife shilpa and 15-year-old daughter attempted to commit suicide in gondal town on june 20 . rajesh died soon after his suicide but his wife and daughter survived .  rajesh sagpariya , 50 , who was running an imitation and silver jewellery unit in rajkot , was threatened by money lenders .  shilpa who came into consciousness registered a case with police and gave 11 persons name as accused .  shilpa has given names of rajesh popat , shailesh , s p bharvad , sanny , hardev , piyush , dipak jalani , raju goswami , and sagar among others . the accused have been booked under various sections of indian penal code including abetment suicide .  sources said that sagpariya and temple in gondal on june 20 .  shilpa told police that her husband rajesh had borrowed money from these accused and returned them in due time with interests but they were still making calls and asking money from him which led to commit suicide . they had made rajesh 's life miserable .  on 20 june rajesh revealed his problems to his wife and they decided to commit suicide . the couple , who lives in ranchhodnagar in the city , left for gondal with their daughter . they paid obeisance in the temple and then got the insecticide from the local market , which they consumed in the evening .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .