Airlines in fare war again: SpiceJet, IndiGo roll out discounts for the ...
http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2014-06-28/news/50929422_1_fare-war-kalanithi-maran-spicejet

airlines in fare war again : spicejet , indigo roll out discounts for the peak travel season  mumbai : spicejet on friday cut ticket prices for the peak travel season , from september till december , to induce travellers to book tickets in advance .  the offer included the eye-catching figure of rs 1,999 for a trip between delhi and goa though tickets would have to be bought before 30 june . indigo responded with a similar offer .  " a popular route like delhi-goa is on offer at rs 1,999 ( one way ) while the spot-fare for the same route is rs 11,253 . these offers will not only help travellers to plan their puja holidays but also post-october breaks , " said rajesh magow , co-founder and india ceo of makemytrip .  " with fare-validity window falling in the winter holiday season , we expect travellers will use this opportunity to upgrade the transport-leg of their holiday to flight instead of rail or other land transport options , " he added .  for both airlines the low fare only ) . spicejet has been leading price wars throughout the year , forcing other low fare carriers to follow suit , often at the cost of their margins .  the kalanithi maran controlled airline in january slashed fares by 50% and later followed with a rs1 fare ( excluding taxes ) . the dgca cracked down on the latter offer calling it " predatory " pricing .  on june 10 , spicejet had announced a monsoon package but that offer was for those whose journeys originated from south indian cities such as bengaluru , chennai and coimbatore .  at the end of may , the indian arm of malaysian carrier airasia launched flights with all inclusive fares of rs 990 . indigo followed with ars1 base fare .  these fares could impact margins . spicejet posted record losses of rs 1,003.24 crore in the year ended march 31 . air india has quietly been following the fare cuts .  jet , which has n't been as aggressive has steadily lost marketshare this year , declining from 19.9% in january to 17.1% in may . in april had occupancies of 76% . in june , spicejet load factors shot to 81% while indigo 's was 82% .  however the period between october to december is the holiday period which sees a spurt in travel and loads for airlines . cutting fares for that season shows airlines are expecting unutilised capacity .