FIFA World Cup Preview: Costa Rica Wary of Greek Catenaccio
http://sports.ndtv.com/fifa-world-cup-2014/news/226197-fifa-world-cup-preview-costa-rica-wary-of-greek-catenaccio

greece have developed a reputation over the years of being extremely hard to break down , particularly if they take the lead . costa rica , therefore , have their task cut out for the last 16 clash .  recife , brazil : costa rica are determined to score first when they tackle greece in the world cup last 16 in recife on sunday . ( fixtures )  greece have developed a reputation over the years of being extremely hard to break down , particularly if they take the lead .  they have almost perfected the classic italian system of catenaccio ( bolt-lock ) in which teams would play in an ultra defensive way and hope to score a single goal on the counter-attack to take a lead they would then defend .  and los ticos technical assistant luis marin said his team need to score early to prevent greece from taking the lead and then shutting up shop .  " it 's crucial for us to score early in the game , especially as greece are known to tighten up at  " but we know it 's going to be a tough game all round . although they lost to colombia ( 3-0 ) , the goals they conceded were down to simple mistakes . greece are also potent on the counter-attack . "  he added : " penalties could play a role at some point . they are a part of the game and although we hope it does n't happen , we have to prepare for every scenario .  " we 've been practising shooting from the penalty spot . "  costa rica emerged as one of the form teams of the group stages , stunning uruguay and then italy before drawing with england to finish top of group d.  greece only just squeezed into the knockout round by the skin of their teeth , giorgios samaras converting a late penalty to hand fernando santos 's men a decisive 2-1 win over ivory coast to book their first ever last 16 appearance . it was only greece 's second goal in three matches .  having steered greece to their first ever appearance in the a force to be reckoned with .  " we have to pay a lot of attention to this game , they came out top in the ' group of death ' . as a result we ca n't afford to underestimate them , " said the portuguese .  as well as their potent attack , costa rica can boast a tight defence -- having conceded just once , to an edinson cavani penalty during their 3-1 defeat of uruguay , in the tournament so far .  " if we have a good point , it 's our defensive system , which is n't just the four or five defenders , " said coach jorge luis pinto .  " our defence is balanced , tough and very efficient . "  given the flair with which costa rica sailed through group d , they should start as favourites at the arena pernambuco -- where they stunned a lifeless italy 1-0 last week .  but if greece progress , the country 's federation bosses will need to look for a quick-fix solution to keep santos on board for out the day after the last 16 clash , and the trained electrical engineer has no intention of having it renewed come what may . ( in pics : many colours of fifa world cup )