Bhuvneshwar Kumar's form vital for India in tour of England 2014
http://www.cricketcountry.com/articles/bhuvneshwar-kumars-form-vital-for-india-in-tour-of-england-2014-151744

bhuvneshwar kumar is the bowler most likely to lead india 's bowling attack in england .  bhuvneshwar kumar is the bowler most likely to lead india 's bowling attack at the start of their five-match test series against england . his abilities to swing the ball will be of utmost importance on friendly surfaces . but his returns were n't good in india 's tour match against leicestershire . shrikant shankar believes if india are to achieve positive results in england , then bhuvneshwar has to be in top form .  as india 's tour match against leicestershire ended , one fact came out glaringly . india 's bowlers are not top class when it comes to test cricket . sure it was only a tour match , but these thoughts have been in the minds of the ones following the game for a while . it has been long since india won a test series away from home . in fact , it has been almost an equal time before india won a test away from home . bowlers are supposed to win test not seem like doing so .  sri lanka beat england 1-0 in the recent test series . but a stronger indian team on paper still does not give the impression of pulling off a similar heist . india have selected seven seam/swing bowlers in their enormous squad for the tour of england . all the seven bowled in the tour match against leicestershire . only three wickets fell to those bowlers . ishant sharma got two wickets , but received a pasting from angus robson and greg smith . another bowler who proved to be expensive was bhuvneshwar kumar . the swing bowler gave away 46 runs off seven overs at an economy-rate of 6.57 .  while one could make out that the pitch at grace road was more suited to the batsmen , there was still enough in it for the bowlers . bhuvneshwar is india 's attack leader and the conditions in england , according to history , favour his type of swing bowling . bhuvneshwar could not get his length right throughout his seven-over spell . he bowled far too full in search of swing and deliveries . bhuvneshwar conceded 10 fours in those seven overs -- that is far too many for an international bowler .  the spinners bail the swing/seam bowlers out in indian conditions on a regular basis . but overseas , especially in england , the faster bowlers must be the ones taking the wickets . ishant had a very good test series away against new zealand , but one really does n't know what to expect from him after all these years . mohammed shami and varun aaron are relatively new to international cricket , but they offer some pace . bhuvneshwar , though , does n't bowl that quickly . his 80 mph deliveries are not going to trouble many batsmen , even if he does swing the ball .  bhuvneshwar has to find the right lengths and surprise the batsmen with his ability to swing the ball both ways without much change in his bowling action . england lost the test series against sri lanka , but many of their batsmen got in amongst the runs with some centuries . india are well capable of letting the likes , to score the big runs again . bhuvneshwar has proved to be less useful when the ball becomes old , so , it is imperative for him to take the wickets upfront .  his form in test cricket too has not been great . he did n't play a single test match against south africa and new zealand away in the past one year . while one does not expect him to run through batting line-ups although that would be welcomed , bhuvneshwar needs to do his bit by taking wickets at the top . if bhuvneshwar is in form during the five-test series against england , then india have a better chance of getting some positive results in the much-awaited test series .  ( shrikant shankar is a writer/reporter at cricketcountry.com . previously he has done audio commentary for various matches involving india , indian premier league and champions league twenty20 for espnstar.com . you can follow him on twitter @shrikant23 )  first published on june 29 , 2014 , 7:18 amlast updated on august 21 , 2014 , 4:42 am