A week full of theatre
http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/a-week-full-of-theatre/article6228492.ece

How to Skin a Giraffe and Jujubee come to the city with a load of fun , entertainment , quirks and life lessons  This week will be one full of theatricals of sorts . Coming to enthral theatre lovers this week are two plays that promise to make you think , laugh , cry and ponder over larger-than-life questions on life . Presented by Perch , an active theatre group based in Chennai , along with Rafiki , a theatre group based out of Bangalore , How to Skin a Giraffe and Jujubee will be performed for an entire week at Ranga Shankara from July 22 to 27 .  Perch , that became famous with the multilingual play Ms. Meena along with Bangalore-based theatre group Rafiki , has been touring since 2010 . Plays director Rajiv Krishnan tells MetroPlus that he and the team are as excited as the audience to present their plays in the city .  He explains that Jujubee is about a kingdom of rules and an evil king and how , by a kind of quirk of fate , a  Giraffe is about two people who decide not to follow their destiny and challenge it , but somehow finally end up where they began .  Rajiv says they premiered Jujubee in February 2012 . " We had n't done a play for children and we had n't worked with masks so this seemed very interesting to do . With children , the key is to keep them engaged . Interesting images and action can engage them better than a barrage of words so it was exciting to use masks and puppets . "  He further explains that both plays have been devised by the team .  " While Jujubee was completely written by us , How to Skin a Giraffe is inspired by Leonce and Lena , a play written by the iconic German playwright Georg Buchner . Last year was the 200th year of Buchner so the Goette-Institut asked us to work on this piece . The play was inspiring -- though Buchner died at the age of 23 , he is regarded as the most outstanding German playwrights in history . The play has a . We took inspiration and reworked on it creating many new characters and approached the play very originally . It was a collaborative effort along with Bangalore-based theatre group Rafiki . "  Both plays have a message about the world we live in , points out Rajiv .  " How to Skin a Giraffe talks about the kind of automated life we lead without questioning how destiny or fate is steering us and how we are not really in control and locked in a kind of routine . We have reworked the play and changed our approach to the script . So it 's got a fresh vibe even for people who 've seen it earlier . "  Looking ahead , Rajiv says they will be taking Jujubee to Sri Lanka next month and are keeping themselves busy with several plays and projects and will keep performing Ms. Meena , our longest running play since five years .  To summarise , How to Skin a Giraffe is about two dynasties ; a son , a daughter and a marriage of convenience . Can fate be challenged or which will be performed from July 22 to 25at 7.30 p.m. and July 27 and 27 at 3.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m .  Catch Jujubee - a kingdom of rules with an evil king and an unlikely heroine -- with all its colour , music and puppets from July 25 to 27 at 11 a.m . Call 9845602265 or visit www.perch.co.in for more details .