President, PM laud Indian Navy on Navy Day
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/President-PM-laud-Indian-Navy-on-Navy-Day/articleshow/45372169.cms

President , PM laud Indian Navy on Navy Day  Modi saluted the Indian Navy personnel and said in a tweet : " On Navy Day , I salute our navy personnel and ... Read More  NEW DELHI : President Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday commended Indian Navy 's " dedication " to protect the country .  Extending his greetings on the 43rd Navy Day to the members of Indian Navy and their families , Mukherjee said the current geostrategic environment has enhanced the role and responsibilities of the Indian Navy in protecting the nation 's maritime interests .  " The navy 's successful induction of indigenously constructed warships and submarines and its integration of Indian-made equipment and systems symbolise India 's growing maritime capabilities and quest for strategic self-reliance , " the President said .  " It is indeed a matter of great pride and reassurance to the entire nation that the uniformed and civilian personnel of the navy have been serving the nation with utmost devotion and dedication . They have countered effectively growing challenges and maintained .  " I am sure the Indian Navy will continue to ensure the security of maritime trade and international sea lanes vital for the nation 's development ; protect our vast coastline and contribute to regional peace and stability , " he added .  Modi saluted the Indian Navy personnel and said in a tweet : " On Navy Day , I salute our navy personnel and the impregnable spirit and utmost devotion with which they protect our motherland . "  He added : " The steadfast dedication and valour of our navy personnel is an unparalleled asset for our nation . "  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .