Ancient India violated N-test ban: Pokhriyal
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/mocktale/Ancient-India-violated-N-test-ban-Pokhriyal/articleshow/45370538.cms

a day after former uttarakhand cm ramesh pokhriyal said india had conducted nuclear tests centuries ago , many experts said 1974 could be called " centuries ago " in a manner of speaking and then began rolling on the floor laughing .  however , sources told mocktale that pokhriyal was very sure of this claim and felt that the nuclear explosion that took place centuries ago gave the entire population in the area temporary amnesia and ensured india would not be able to test another nuclear weapon till 1974 .  apparently , since the united states had n't been discovered then , sage kanad went ahead with the nuclear test as there was no comprehensive test ban treaty , nor was there any fear of sanctions .  one outraged source said , " you journalists are just cynics . the honourable ex-cm has talked of so many advances that india made centuries ago . "  " we had chariots with four-wheel drive technology and very high horsepower . those were environment friendly too . before your bulletproof vests came we had karna 's ramanand sagar 's ramayana ? we had laser guided arrows that sprayed the enemy with sparks and rainbow colours leading to instant death , " he said in one breath .  " we also had stealth aircraft but they were so stealth that no one ever saw them , " the source added .  so how did the india that had nuclear technology and state-of-the-art weapons thousands of years ago become the world 's largest importer of arms with a fleet of nearly obsolete migs and a gaping hole in its artillery arsenal ?  mocktale asked its resident expert , professor iknow jackshit to comment on ramesh pokhriyal 's new clear policy . " you see , what happened was , the nuclear explosion created a worm hole , which is not a black hole but a portal to another galaxy . and it sucked out all technological know-how and transferred it to another planet , leaving india without any nuclear weapons . "  he added , " you must see christoper nolan 's film interstellar to remove all doubts about worm holes and time travel , that nuclear deterrent , the mughals , mongols , alexander , and even the british may never have invaded india . damn that worm hole .  stories in mocktale are works of fiction intended to bring a smile to your face . they bear no connection to events and characters in real life .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  choose your reason below and click on the submit button . this will alert our moderators to take action  name  reason for reporting :  foul language  defamatory  inciting hatred against a certain community  out of context/spam  others  your reason has been submitted to the admin .  a day after former uttarakhand cm ramesh pokhriyal said india had conducted nuclear tests centuries ago , many experts said 1974 could be called " centuries ago " in a manner of speaking and then began rolling on the floor laughing .