The remains of Ruth
http://www.thehindu.com/features/friday-review/ruth-prawer-jhabvala-retrospective/article6661882.ece

As the India International Centre in New Delhi holds a retrospective of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala 's films , let 's look back at the life and times of the unassuming writer who made sense of a young , post colonial India , says Anuj Kumar  What can a writer do in a visual medium like cinema to make his/her presence felt ? Disappear from the scene ? Exactly , this is what Ruth Prawer Jhabvala did . Over and over again , she vanished from the scene even as we relished her nuanced study of cultures , particularly those on the verge of extinction captured through the perceptive lens of James Ivory . Together with producer Ismail Merchant , they became a three-headed deity , representing three cultures and continents , which Merchant often used to call a three-headed monster in jest .  A year after she passed away in New York , as her family , friends and connoisseurs of her craft reflect on her contribution through a series of events this month , Ruth is back in focus .  Aruna Chakravarti , Empathy and Exile : The Novels of Ruth Prawer Jhabvala " , says Ruth smoothly straddled the worlds of literary and cinematic writing without any jarring notes . " She did n't indulge in any intellectual analysis of cultures . Her works are inherently dialogue-based in nature . The issues come alive through human interactions . Her mouthpieces were ordinary people . "  Be it " The Householder " , " Heat And Dust " , " A Room With A View " or " The Remains of the Day " , Ruth became the fly on the wall noting the interplay of class , identity and ethnicity . Dislocation was a constant theme in her life and it reflected in her work . She was born in Germany when being a Jew was a curse . Her family ran away to England , where she found a language to express herself and a Parsi boy she could spend her life with .  Married to eminent architect Cyrus Jhabvala , Ruth spent the next two decades in India , and the country 's heat and dust effortlessly slipped into delights . Like every westerner , Chakravarti says , Ruth went through three phases . " First she found everything good about India . The sun was warm , the air was mellow and the people were friendly . She was taken by the Indian philosophy of live and let live . But gradually she discovered the economic and social disparity . The gurus who dupe westerners seeking peace found their way into her writing ( ' The Guru ' ) and suddenly the warmth and mellowness became heat and dust . But gradually she came to terms with the truth that Indian spirituality has a lot more to offer . One can sense it in ' Heat and Dust ' itself , when Olivia wants her ashes to be sprinkled on the Himalayas . "  She wrote about issues she herself grappled with . Often her protagonists were a reflection of her , trying to fit into different cultures . Salman Rushdie called her a rootless intellectual , but Chakravarti says her lack of a sense of belonging became her strength . Her aspiration for assimilation spurred many a a refugee , always a refugee ' . " She was ruthlessly honest about it and many Indian critics could not grasp her work in entirety , " holds Chakravarti , adding she was no different when she was in New York . " There she was writing about beggars spending nights in the open and compared them with Indian beggars , who she felt had something cheery about their disposition . She wrote about how taking care of old people was part of western culture . "  It reflected in the choices she made in adapting works of E.M . Forster ( " A Room With A View " , " Howard 's End " ) , Evan S. Connell ( " Mr. and Mrs Bridge " ) and Kazio Ishigurio ( " The Remains of the Day " ) . Indeed there were no jarring notes as she made somebody else 's work hers .  Was she born to write for cinema ? Not quite . As a Booker winner , she was supposed to revel in authorial ego . But she adapted literary works to the two Academy Awards . An unparalleled feat . What she once called just a hobby brought her fame , but she zealously guarded her privacy .  Her eldest daughter Renana , a social worker , who has been associated with SEWA for a long time , describes her as a recluse who was constantly questioning herself . " She did n't even go to receive the Academy Awards . She preferred to watch the ceremony on television . " During her early years she was social but gradually became more observant . Her husband 's partner was a Punjabi and his gregarious family opened a window to the chaos and carnival that India was in the decades after independence . And the eminently perceptive Ruth inhaled the complexities and breathed out simple everyday situations that entertained with their subtlety and nuances . " If you withdraw yourself from the conversation you can observe much more . She had an eagle eye , noticing the strengths and weakness of people around her . "  Arranged marriage became a plot point in " The Householder " where the mother-in-law was at was a social worker but as we know , mothers-in-law had a standard behaviour in India . She came into a family where there were four bahus . So there was enough material around her . But I am still curious where she found the householder . "  When she shifted to Delhi , she first lived on Pusa Road and Renana says the college in " The Householder " is actually S. N. Das Gupta College , which she could see from the window of her room .  No wonder , the window has found its way to the invite Renana is sending out to people who want to know more about Ruth .  On her writing regimen , Renana says , " Our father used to leave for work early , and from 9 a.m. to noon nobody was allowed into her room .  This was the time when she used to write on her old typewriter ( a part of the exhibition ) with utmost discipline . Once she was done with writing she would show the manuscript to our father but as far read them . She would only converse with James Ivory through letters . And after noon she was like any other mother , fussing over our food , dresses and homework . "  Her critics described her sensibility as ' antique shop ' , and when Indian readers discovered her lineage they started seeing her work in a different light . Renana calls it an " unfair criticism " , something that reflects a defensive nature towards one 's culture . She admits that Ruth was upset but maintains that was not the reason for her shifting to New York . " She did feel that she did n't belong to the place in the cultural sense , but the point was that her collaborators were in New York and after she received the MacArthur Foundation fellowship she had the money to sustain a life in New York . But she did n't sever her links with India . She used to spend two months with us every year , " says Renana .  Putting things in perspective , Chakravarti says , " Ruth never put herself in the and Anita Desai . She maintained that if someone ever wanted to bracket her she belonged to the tradition of Kipling and Forster . "  ( India International Centre is holding a retrospective of her films from December 8 to 22 at its main auditorium. )