Mountjoy Farmers' Market opens for new season
http://www.timminspress.com/2016/07/25/mountjoy-farmers-market-opens-for-new-season

News Local  Mountjoy Farmers ' Market opens for new season  Beet lovers , rejoice ! Alexa Graham , 13 , left , and her 17-year-old sister Sarah held up some of the giant vegetables that were available for purchase at the kick-off to the annual Mountjoy Independent Farmer 's Market on Saturday afternoon at the Centennial Hall .  After weeks of eager anticipation , the Mountjoy Independent Farmers ' Market finally opened its doors for the season on Saturday morning .  The market has become an annual summer staple for many in Timmins , with dozens of residents spending their Saturday pursuing the large selection of local fruits and vegetables , cheeses , meats , baked goods and crafts available inside the Centennial Hall .  Dean Levesque , market board member and local businessman , said the opening day was a success .  " It 's been steady ; it 's been awesome , " he said . " We see a lot of regulars who are looking forward to the opening , as they always do , and with the people , too . "  Andrea Blair was a first-time visitor to the market and said she was impressed with what it had to offer .  " I wanted to see what was available because I was interested in the local flavours , meat vendors , vegetables and other produce , " she said . " I 'm pleasantly surprised and if I was a vendor , I 'd probably consider having a booth here myself . "  She had been interested in checking out the market for awhile after hearing about it from others in the community .  " I 've actually been trying to come for the last few Saturdays until I realized it just opened today , " she said with a laugh . " So , I 've been really looking forward to it . "  One of this year 's new vendors , the Fromagerie Kapuskoise , also brought cheese to the market so attendees could sample and purchase fresh and squeaky curds and other fine cheeses .  As part of a new artisanal program , local meat producer Acres chicken for the first time .  Levesque said the market is an age-old tradition that connects vendors and consumers together to meet , mingle and learn more about the food production process .  " It 's community-based with local farmers and artisans coming together to bring Northern products to the Northern community , " he explained . " It 's important that when people come in and buy fresh vegetables and cheeses , they are able to talk to the people who made them . Then , they can better understand where their food comes from and the quality of it , they can ask questions about the process , and they can understand the importance of having fresh food . "  Blair agreed and said that she personally enjoyed the interactive , farm-to-table element of the market .  " I picked up some fresh , locally grown , hormone-free beef , " she said , gesturing to her purchase . " I think it 's nice to support local and you know what you 're getting when you 're getting it from a local farmer . of checking out the arts and crafts available , there was plenty to choose from on that front , as well .  There was hand-crafted pottery from Levesque 's business Wawaitin Clayworks , for example , and other vendors had hand-sewn items , jewelry and even fishing lures on display .  As Levesque explained , showcasing the talents of Northern artisans helps to promote their talents throughout the region and also encourages others to potentially get involved themselves .  " I like being here because it brings an appreciation and an awareness to the fact that we have a lot of talent in this community , " he said . " Hopefully , this will encourage other people to say , ' Hey , there is a market for this , ' because there are industries coming up in the North that will make it more interesting and a better place to live . "  Throughout the summer , the market will also be partnering with other community non-profits and  organizations to host fundraisers and special themed market days .  While it has a home said the market may also have to find a new facility once the municipality decides what to do with the aging building .  The 50-year-old hall is in need of significant repairs , and the city has so far been unwilling to shell out the capital to complete them -- making the future of the market at its current location unknown .  " We 're dedicated to this space for as long as we have it , but we 're just encouraging people to come out and enjoy it because there 's a question mark on how long it will be here in this location , " Levesque said . " We ask the community for any ideas to keep this going and although it 's the people and not the structure that makes the market and community , we also need facilities to keep this going . It 's important to work together to do that . "  The Mountjoy Independent Farmers ' Market will be held every Saturday until about mid-October at the Centennial Hall , 814 Park Ave. , from 8 a.m. to noon .