MMSB open to partnering on getting Grenfell composter back in ...
http://www.thewesternstar.com/News/Local/2016-08-19/article-4619054/MMSB-open-to-partnering-on-getting-Grenfell-composter-back-in-operation/1

MMSB open to partnering on getting Grenfell composter back in operation  As one of partners from the beginning , the Multi-Materials Stewardship Board ( MMSB ) was disappointed to learn that Grenfell Campus , Memorial University of Newfoundland was suspending the operation of its industrial composter .  STAR FILE PHOTO  The industrial composter at Grenfell Campus , Memorial University of Newfoundland in Corner Brook .  " We understand the importance of it from a waste diversion perspective and we understand and believe in the importance of it from an environmental perspective . "  At the same time , Samson said , the board understands Grenfell has difficult decisions to make in the context of its financial situation .  The university will save $90,000 a year by shutting down the composter .  The MMSB provided $100,000 through its Waste Management Trust Fund to finance the capital costs , training and education associated with the composter in the partnership with Grenfell and College of the North Atlantic .  Samson said the MMSB had a contribution agreement with Grenfell for a five-year composter .  " This was in many respects as much about what we could learn from the application of this kind of technology in Newfoundland as it was about the actual waste to be diverted , " he said .  " It 's one of a variety of technologies that will ultimately have application in Newfoundland and Labrador as we move forward with large scale organic waste management . "  Samson said the MMSB is interested in discussing renewing the partnership with Grenfell or pursuing it in a different way in an effort to keep the technology working .  In the alternative , the board is prepared to consider a partnership with somebody else .  But Samson said it is still early days and the discussions with Grenfell have to be started first .  Rio Olympics  Team Canada Tweets  Advertising  Business Directory  Business Directory  Shop Local  Awards for Excellence  E-Edition  Press+ Sign In  Quick question : Royals done  The Corner Brook Royals will not rejoin the Central West Senior Hockey League for the 2016-2017 season will be able to return for the 2017-2018 season ?