Armstrong ice system saves money
http://www.vernonmorningstar.com/news/390564211.html

connect with us  armstrong ice system saves money  armstrong spallumcheen parks and recreation staff put the finishing touches on this year 's ice installation at the nor-val sports centre . a new system is being used designed to save thousands of dollars in utility costs .  armstrong spallumcheen parks and recreation has invested in a brand new realice system .  just in time for the upcoming season , the nor-val sports centre has built its ice from scratch with unheated water .  this switch will not only save the community thousands of dollars immediately in avoided utility costs , there is also a huge environmental benefit .  skating arenas are one of the most energy guzzling buildings a city has to run .  the arena boasts a single nhl rink and is in operation eight months a year . on the single pad , the return on investment is calculated to be only 2.5 years . the annual energy savings is estimated to be 100,819 kwh in electricity and 567 gj for natural gas .  " managed by canlan commission , the arena will be the next in canada using unheated water to flood and maintain their ice , " said florian gabriel , managing director of swich services , the distributor of realice in canada .  " municipalities and private operations are becoming more aware of the emission and costs savings that are possible because of the avoided utility expenses . "  through the project at the arena , the city of armstrong is pursuing its pledge for a greener community .  in 2012 , the city signed the climate action charter pledging to become more carbon neutral and to be more energy efficient .  over a 10-year period , the realice system is expected to save the municipality $113,000 -- which corresponds to 200,000 gallons of gasoline , taking 375 passenger cars off the road -- or 45,674 trees planted .  we encourage an open exchange of ideas on this story 's topic , but we ask you to follow our guidelines for respecting community standards . personal attacks , inappropriate language , and off-topic comments may be removed , and comment privileges our faq if you have questions or concerns about using facebook to comment .