Education Minister's "open letter" to parents draws fire from VSB
http://www.am730.ca/syn/112/229136/education-ministers-open-letter-to-parents-draws-fire-from-vsb

Education Minister 's " open letter " to parents draws fire from VSB  With a week that 's seen the Vancouver School Board mired in allegations of bullying , the Education Minister is hoping to have the final word on the furor .  Mike Bernier has sent what his ministry has described as an " open letter to parents , " but the recipients could easily also be the VSB itself .  " We will work to ensure teachers , principals and staff at the Vancouver school board are supported through this period , " Bernier writes .  And says he wants to reassure parents , at least , that the recent allegations of bullying are being " taken seriously . "  Earlier this week the Education Minister told reporters he is " seriously considering replacing the Vancouver School Board , but says he would wait for a WorkSafeBC report into the bullying allegations .  Dysfunction and toxicity  But a Vancouver school Trustee is slamming the move , claiming the letter just spreads more " dysfuntion and toxicity . " to stir further turmoil .  " When nothing of that nature has been proven , he knows there are investigations underway . " " Why he is sending out that kind of message and almost like he 's repeating rumours ; it 's irresponsible and it needs to stop . "  Bernier received a letter from the BC School Superintendents Association containing serious allegations of a toxic work environment .  A copy of that letter , obtained by our sister station Global BC 's Keith Baldrey includes the following excerpt :  ' The Vancouver School Board work environment continually and cumulatively creates a toxicity which fosters fear and a lack of sense of safety for those lead educators as the expectations requested of them are unmanageable . ' ... they are asking the Ministry to intervene . "  Six senior administrators at the VSB have now taken indefinite medical leave , including the Superintendent of Schools who had been leading the VSB school closure process .  Earlier this month , the board voted to suspend the process which had 11 schools potentially on the chopping @ @