Iain MacIntyre: Forced out as a player, Malhotra eased in as coach
http://vancouversun.com/sports/hockey/nhl/vancouver-canucks/iain-macintyre-forced-out-as-a-player-malhotra-eased-in-as-coach

Iain MacIntyre : Forced out as a player , Malhotra eased in as coach  Manny Malhotra was a proud player with the Vancouver Canucks and hopes to bring that same passion to coaching , having been named a player development coach with the NHL squad.JONATHAN HAYWARD / THE CANADIAN PRESS  When the Vancouver Canucks announced a month ago that Manny Malhotra was joining them as a player development coach , the surprise was not the name of the player but the name of the team .  The Canucks are the National Hockey League organization that tried to force Malhotra into retirement 3 ? years ago when former general manager Mike Gillis told the centre he was being shut down for his own safety , two seasons after a gruesome injury nearly cost Malhotra his left eye .  Malhotra and his wife Joann wept that day when Gillis told them in a coffee bar on South Granville that Manny could n't play anymore . That sadness was replaced at times by anger as Malhotra defiantly resumed his career after his contract with the Canucks the Carolina Hurricanes and Montreal Canadiens and , last year , for the Lake Erie Monsters .  Malhotra never played as well as before he was struck by a deflected puck against the Colorado Avalanche on March 16 , 2011 , when he was considered one of the best checking centres in the game . But he refused to be told when his career was over , just as he refused to be defined by his eye injury .  He hated talking about it and , to this day , has not said how much of the vision -- maybe all of it -- he lost in his left eye that night .  He was a hockey player . Period .  And now suddenly he is a hockey coach .  And for everyone who knew him as a player , articulate and studious and fiercely devoted to the details of his craft , a natural leader , this hard right turn into coaching makes perfect sense . This was always going to be the next move when Malhotra was finished playing .  But no one Canucks .  " No , not at that point , just the way things did end here , " Malhotra , 36 , conceded this week after a Canuck practice . " It was n't on a great note . My mindset was that I was still a player . I was healthy , I felt good , I still wanted to play . A lot of people were asking me if I was going to get into coaching or get into broadcasting .  " But in my mind , I never made that transition ; I was going to play . I was n't trying to prove anybody wrong . I was trying to continue what I wanted to do and pursue what I felt I could do . It was gratifying in the sense that I proved the people who believed in me right . "  Malhotra bears no malice toward Gillis or , obviously , the Canuck organization . He always believed his former boss truly felt he was acting in the player 's best interest , trying to protect him from harm that might  Still , Malhotra said this week that the day he was told he could n't play was " hands-down " worse than the night he was hurt .  " You ca n't wrap your head around it , " he said . " With anything , anything you love to do and have been doing for a long time , when someone comes along and tells you you ca n't do it anymore , it 's a hard pill to swallow . That was definitely the hardest thing I ever had to go through as a player . I 've gone through a lot of injuries and there 's that self-doubt all the time . But when somebody takes something away from you , it hurts . "  Gillis said back then that shutting down Malhotra was " the hardest thing I have done in this job . " It came nine games into the lockout-shortened season -- nine games after Malhotra 's visit to Nike 's sports science complex in Oregon confirmed for the Canucks a significant level of vision impairment .  Contacted at his home to medical confidentiality and declined to be interviewed . Stung by criticism -- some justified , some unwarranted -- since he was fired as Canuck president and GM on April 8 , 2014 after the most successful and profitable six-year run in franchise history , Gillis does n't do interviews anymore .  He did say , however , he has tremendous respect for Malhotra and always believed he would make a good coach . Gillis said he told Malhotra so when they spoke in the summer .  Malhotra was recruited by Canuck president Trevor Linden in a series of phone calls . Malhotra and his wife , the sister of Canadian basketball icon Steve Nash , always kept their home in Vancouver and wanted to raise their children here . Their kids are 8 , 6 and 3 and Joann is expecting a fourth in December .  Raised in the Toronto area , Malhotra calls himself " an adopted West Coaster . "  After playing 991 NHL games for seven teams , he has plenty to offer the Canucks . He is mentoring 21-year-old centre Bo Horvat awful record on faceoffs .  " I really liked trying to understand the game , " Malhotra said . " That 's the kind of player I was -- I had to think the game . A lot of guys out there , it 's natural ability . They 're just gifted , and it happens for them .  " For me , my career started to take off when I was playing for Ken Hitchcock in Columbus ( 2005-09 ) and I started understanding the game . More than just the details , there was the understanding of why you do something . It was a turning point in my career . "  The Canucks were not an easy sell to him mainly because Malhotra still wanted to play somewhere this season . He has n't filed retirement papers with the NHL and " I still do n't use the R-word .  " I do n't think that feeling of wanting to play ever goes away , " he said . " Even talking to Steamer ( Canuck senior adviser Stan Smyl ) , he still you . It 's why people stay in the game , why people coach . It 's being at the rink and being part of a team , part of something . "  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .  Canucks Videos  Connect With Us  Email Alerts  Get the latest news in your mailbox as it happens  Classified  Buy , sell and trade smarter .  Stories , pictures and tributes to life . View and place obituaries , and more .  Share the joy . Tell the world . Read and place announcements here .  The faster Find the job you want in your city . View and place job listings , and more .