House of Horrors: Germany's Paul Bernardo and Karla Homolka?
http://www.torontosun.com/2016/10/26/house-of-horrors-germanys-paul-bernardo-and-karla-homolka

A German couple suspected of sickening crimes eerily similar to Paul Bernardo and Karla Homolka have gone on trial .  The twisted twosome -- known only as Wilfried W. , 46 , and his 47-year-old ex-wife , Angelika W. -- are charged with murder by omission and bodily harm .  Cops say , like Bernardo and Homolka , who raped and murdered schoolgirls in southern Ontario in the early 1990s , the German pair allegedly sought sex slaves they could keep as prisoners for years .  Prosecutors say the gruesome twosome looked for willing young women through the classified ads of German newspapers and online .  They allegedly turned their basement into a torture chamber where two women died and many more were brutalized to satisfy the couple 's sickening kinks .  According to cops , the duo lived as brother and sister . They had been married , then divorced .  Once they honed in on a target , prosecutors allege Wilfried would seduce the women then fleece them of their life savings .  " The defendants first led , after they had been lured with newspaper ads " to the couple 's house outside the town of Hoexter , prosecutor Ralf Meyer said .  The couple would then set about breaking the women 's will using an array of sickening tortures , court heard .  The terrible secret was revealed when a 41-year-old woman named Suzanne died from a brain hemorrhage triggered by the couple 's abuse , cops say .  " She was abused for nothing , " Det . Ralf Ostermann told the U.K. Sun . " If the knife was not laid on the correct side of the plate that was a trigger for punches , stomping , kicking . "  She had been held captive for two months .  Now , cops say that Angelika W. then told authorities she 'd been involved in another woman 's death in 2014 . After she was killed , that victim 's body was cut up and stored in the freezer , and pieces were removed and burned in the couple 's fireplace over time , police said earlier this year . The text messages to her mother .  Prosecutors believe that at least eight people were abused by the couple in total .  The trial is to resume Nov. 16 . It is expected to continue until at least the end of March .