$5M funding boost for six projects in Timmins
http://www.timminspress.com/2016/11/08/5m-funding-boost-for-six-projects-in-timmins

news local  $5m funding boost for six projects in timmins  minister of the status of women patty hajdu ( liberal -- thunder bay-superior north ) , pictured here , was in attendance at a press conference at the bucket shop in timmins on tuesday where she announced the company will be receiving $1 million investment from fednor . this came as part of a larger announcement that the city of timmins will be receiving more than $5 million in funding for six different local projects .  six projects in timmins are getting a significant funding boost as it was announced on tuesday that fednor is injecting more than $5 million into initiatives in the city .  minister of the status of women patty hajdu ( liberal -- thunder bay-superior north ) was in attendance at a press conference at the bucket shop that evening to announce that a total of $5,146,870 will be provided to the city 's new industrial park , two neonet initiatives , the expansion of the bucket shop , a new roof for the curling club at the mcintyre in south porcupine .  hajdu made the announcement on behalf of navdeep bains , minister of innovation , science and economic development , who is responsible for fednor .  " what happens here today is going to drive our economy forward , it 's going to be the driver for good jobs , for strong communities that have diversification and opportunities for young people to stay in their communities and contribute to their communities , " minister hajdu said . " i work very closely with minister bains to make sure that he understands the particular needs of the north and that we are making those investments in sound ways that are going to help these communities . "  mayor steve black said the funding will go a long way to enhancing the economic prosperity of the city and is pleased to see fednor contributing to a wide variety of initiatives .  " seeing this much money injected through fednor into the community in one occasion is definitely a great news announcement for the city of timmins and all of our partners , " he said . captured the complete gamut of what their role is in northern ontario and benefitting the city of timmins . we always talk jobs and benefitting the economy and this will go a long way with that . "  the largest portion of the funding , $2,497,150 , is being directed to extend municipal services and access to road and rail corridors to the new industrial park in timmins . as a result , timmins has secured calabrian corporation as its anchor tenant for the park , which will result in the creation of 20 new jobs .  non-profit organization neonet received the second largest funding boost , with $1,449,720 being divided between operational funding for the organization and an expansion of its broadband e-business and marketing division , which provides small and medium-sized enterprises training in digital skills and new innovative technologies .  the bucket shop was provided with a $1 million investment into completing construction on their new facility and purchasing the equipment needed to double its production capacity .  the company will be creating eight new jobs through its expansion and plans to have the timmins , opened by january 2017 .  ross woodward , president of the bucket shop , said he was thankful for the funding investment , which will help complete the building construction and double its production capacity .  " we 're on to some new technology and bringing new technology to the mining community that has n't been revisited in 20 years , that 's what we 're leap-frogging onto now , " he said of the $16 million expansion project . " this facility is the latest in technology from the perspective of environment and efficiency , heating and lighting , air quality , and this will gives us the ability to compete competitively on a global scale and provide the employees a work environment that is second to none . "  both the south porcupine arena association and the mcintyre arena will be receiving $100,000 each , as well .  as part of the canada 150 community infrastructure program , the funds invested into the carlo cattarello arena will allow for the installation of a new concrete sub-floor for the ice pad ( transforming it led lighting .  the mcintyre curling club is also receiving its funding from the canada 150 community infrastructure program and will use the funding to replace the roof .  black said the investments into recreational facilities in timmins are just as critical as the larger-scale investments and add to the quality of life for local residents .  minister hajdu added it is a critical part of fednor 's mandate to provide funding to a robust variety of initiatives and industries in the north , which serves to diversify the local economy .  " for a long time in northern ontario , we 've relied on the resource sector and it 's done great things for northern ontario , but we 'll all seen , in all of our communities across the north , the boom-and-bust that comes with resource sector development , " she explained . " we have to look at diversification so when we make these kinds of announcements ... it provides that stability for communities and allows for the creation of new kinds of jobs and attracts people to either stay in the region those new opportunities . "  black concluded that announcements like the one made on tuesday highlight the demand for fednor funding and why it is so critical that it be provided with the budget needed to provide these economic opportunities for northern ontario .  " at no time have we been upset with fednor from a staffing and investing in the projects they invest in because we know they invest in great projects , " he said . " but that 's why we want more dollars so we can see more development in northern ontario because it is just as critical as any other region when it comes to economic development . "