Burrows helps Canucks beat Rangers 5-3 to end 9-game skid
http://www.cfjctoday.com/article/547992/burrows-helps-canucks-beat-rangers-5-3-end-9-game-skid

?  Burrows helps Canucks beat Rangers 5-3 to end 9-game skid  NEW YORK -- The Vancouver Canucks broke through with their biggest scoring outburst of the season , got a strong defensive effort and some big saves from their goalie .  Indeed , it took a complete team effort to end their long losing streak .  Alexandre Burrows scored twice in the third period , and Henrik Sedin and Sven Baertschi each had a goal and an assist to help the Canucks snap a nine-game skid with a 5-3 victory over the New York Rangers on Tuesday night .  Loui Eriksson also scored for the Canucks , who were 0-8-1 with eight straight regulation losses since opening the season with four wins . Bo Horvat had two assists and Jacob Markstrom finished with 23 saves as Vancouver won for the first time since beating Buffalo on Oct. 20 .  " I thought we played the right way , " Burrows said . " We did a lot of good things defensively at the lines . We pressured a really good team , we made some good plays , good reads . ... ( Markstrom ) played great again and it 's a big team win . "  The Canucks , outscored 28-9 with four shutouts in the previous eight games , had their most goals since a 4-3 overtime win against Carolina on Oct. 16 in the second game of the season .  Burrows took advantage of a loose puck to give the Canucks a 3-2 lead at 9:21 of the third . Henrik Lundqvist made a sprawling save on a shot in close by Horvat , but the puck stayed out at the right side as several players jabbed at it before Burrows knocked it in for his first of the season .  " It was nice , especially at that time in the game , " Burrows said . " We 're in a situation now where we ( had n't ) won in a while , so any time you can score it makes it feel even better . "  Rick Nash , Pavel Buchnevich and Mika Zibanejad scored for the Rangers , who had each game . Buchnevich also had two assists .  Antti Raanta stopped 20 shots , though he left for 6:19 in the third period after being run into by the Canucks ' Markus Granlund . Lundqvist made four saves on six shots while filling in .  " They were a desperate team and they played like it tonight , " Rangers captain Ryan McDonagh said . " They won more puck battles than us and they had the puck a little bit more than us . And when they had opportunities to score , they beared down and capitalized . "  Baertschi put Vancouver ahead by two as he tipped in a centring pass by Jack Skille for his first of the season with 6:52 left . Burrows added an empty-netter with 3:06 remaining to make it 5-2 , and Zibanejad scored for the Rangers with 59 seconds to go to cap the scoring .  " That 's how you score goals in this league , " Eriksson said . " You need to be hungry in front of the net . I thought we stepped up win . "  Sedin put the Canucks ahead 2-1 at 2:29 of the third when he fired a slap shot past Raanta for his fifth goal . It came just 8 seconds after Sedin came out of the penalty box following a high-sticking infraction .  Nash tied it at 5:27 with his 400th career goal . With the Rangers on a power play , Buchnevich sent a pass from the right faceoff circle to Nash at the left side of the net and the veteran left wing tipped it into the open net .  Buchnevich got the Rangers on the board at 7:20 with his third of the season , scoring for the third straight game . Markstrom got a piece of the puck but it got past the goalie and trickled over the goal line . Brady Skjei got an assist on the play , giving him one for the sixth straight game .  The Canucks tied it with 4:42 left in the second on Eriksson 's first with the Canucks . He took a centring pass from Daniel Sedin from the left side of the puck over the legs of a sprawled Ranta .  NOTES : Daniel Sedin 's assist on Eriksson 's goal gave him a point in three straight games ( two goals , one assist ) . Daniel Sedin has six goals and seven assists in 16 games against the Rangers . ... Henrik Sedin has four goals and eight assists in 15 games against the Rangers . ... Coming off a 4-2 loss at the New York Islanders on Monday night , Vancouver completed the fifth of 15 back-to-backs this season . The Canucks are 2-3-0 on the second nights . ... The Rangers and Canucks conclude their season series on Nov. 15 at Vancouver . ... The Rangers were called for two penalties after having been whistled for an NHL-low 78 penalty minutes in their first 13 games .  UP NEXT  Canucks : At Detroit on Thursday night in the finale of a six-game trip .  Join the Discussion  We are happy to provide a forum for commenting and discussion . Please respect and abide by the house rules : Keep it clean , keep it be responsible , share your knowledge , and please suggest removal of comments that violate these standards . See full commenting rules .