Pelissier Street garage main floor to become parking spots
http://windsorstar.com/news/local-news/pelissier-street-garage-main-floor-to-become-parking-spots

a closed-door council meeting that reversed the city 's position on keeping retail space in a downtown municipal parking garage was an affront to democracy , the head of the business association charged tuesday .  " i am very upset , concerned and disappointed about what occurred in a very secretive meeting with council , " said larry horwitz , chair of the downtown windsor business improvement association . " we have to see what can be done from here . "  council voted in-camera monday to spend about $500,000 to turn the main floor of the city-owned pelissier street parking garage -- which currently offers largely empty retail office space -- into 51 more parking spots .  horwitz is organizing an emergency meeting next week of the dwbia board , which has long called for more retail outlets in the garage to boost the street 's vibrancy .  horwitz said a majority of council agreed to seek retail tenants , only to have the decision reversed in a closed-door meeting . he understands that councillors could not discuss a private proposal in floor to parking should have been made with stakeholders ' input .  " you do n't turn a main street into a hollow dead zone , " horwitz said . " it will hurt merchants , residents and the city . no urban planner would ever advise it . an empty dead zone parking lot does not lure people downtown . it hurts business and creates an unsafe space . "  only three of eight retail spaces are filled in the garage at the moment , windsor pride community , youssef hair boutique , and canada south festival network . they will have six months to find new locations .  " we have worked for years to see if it 's feasible to keep tenants in the main floor of the pelissier street parking garage , " mayor drew dilkens said after monday 's council meeting . " council tried over many year to solicit that space , market it with a realtor , put signs up in the windows , and just do a whole host of things you would expect in order to turn that into asked for expressions of interest . but dilkens said in the end the city received only one proposal , which did n't meet council 's minimum standards .  " we 've come to the end of the road , " dilkens said . " and the decision was based on the fact that the university is downtown , the armouries will be opening in the next year , so there will be a need for additional parking spaces . the demand in that garage is very , very high . "  council put $480,000 aside to renovate the space if a serious tenant came forward .  but horwitz said the main hurdle to attracting tenants is the dismal condition of the space , which has water damage and mould , among other issues .  " you ca n't get a tenant if you do n't renovate it , " said horwitz , who thinks the city did n't truly try to market it . " you ca n't even show it if you have mould . "  background and costs  city engineers have estimated in space overhaul would cost $1.8 million . the garage , built in 1979 and owned by the city since 2003 , originally offered only parking . it currently has 349 parking spaces . an earlier administration report says that if all spots were continually rented out , and monthly rates rose from $60 to $70 , it would make $293,000 a year . instead , the city lost more than $150,000 in 2013 .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .