Council votes for $30 per year Edmonton back alley renewal levy
http://edmontonjournal.com/news/local-news/council-votes-for-30-per-year-edmonton-back-alley-renewal-levy

Council voted Tuesday to support a new $30 per year levy on Edmonton taxpayers to fix back alleys .  The levy would increase over several years to $30 annually for the typical single-family home over a couple years , with construction starting on the worst back alleys in 2019 . It would apply to everyone , whether or not they have a back alley .  By 2022 , construction crews would be rebuilding 49 kilometres of back alleys a year .  Councillors Michael Oshry and Mike Nickel voted against the plan , with Nickel arguing to fund alley renewal out of the existing infrastructure budget . That would push innovation , he argued , suggesting if Edmonton switches to street-front garbage pickup it would n't have to rebuild back alleys to standard that can handle heavy truck traffic .  The plan still needs approval during the spring supplementary capital budget adjustment . It will compete with other priorities there , Mayor Don Iveson said . But " clearly council has identified today it is something we will prioritize . "  Edmonton has paid for by residents through local improvement taxes . But in some areas , two thirds are ranked in poor to very poor condition , filled with potholes and draining poorly .  Coun. Scott McKeen said he got a standing ovation at a community meeting recently when he said the city was going to renew alleys . " People , when they know exactly what their dollars are going to , are a little less reticent to pay , " he said .  " I like the idea of the alleys being done but I 'll be interested ( to see what happens ) when it comes forward to budget , " said Coun. Bev Esslinger .  Council voted to compensate residents still paying local improvement levies for their back alleys by reducing their property taxes . There will be no compensation for those who already paid the bill . Business still paying their levies will not be compensated .  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .