Dear Justin, Senate job please!
http://www.ottawasun.com/2016/01/03/dear-justin-senate-job-please

Dear Justin , Senate job please !  Governor General David Johnston delivers the speech from the throne in the Senate Chamber on Parliament Hill in Ottawa , on December 4 , 2015 . The Conservative-dominated Senate is taking the first step towards accommodating Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's desire for a more independent , less partisan upper house . THE CANADIAN PRESS/Sean Kilpatrick  Topics  The new government under Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apparently wants to end the over-the-top partisanship that has long been a part of the Senate .  And under the new plan , individuals can now actually apply to become a senator .  With media jobs disappearing quicker than we can report them , seems like a good idea to hedge my bets !  Senator Sherring , like the sound of that !  Here goes .  Dear Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ,  I read with interest your desire to bring about change to the Senate .  Great idea . Goodness knows it 's long overdue -- so kudos to you .  Please consider this first .  At 56 years of age , I certainly meet the minimum requirement of being 30 years old -- and less than 75 ! I 'm old enough to remember the days of Trudeaumania Part One ! And now , I 'm again witnessing your honeymoon period .  I 'm a Canadian citizen who meets the financial requirements of owning at least $4,000 worth of property .  I note one of the requirements is a " proven record of outstanding ethics and integrity . "  ( That could be a challenge . Let 's hope you can find enough qualified candidates to meet that bar ! )  To be clear , as a journalist , I 've spent years following the dollar at Ottawa City Hall .  I abhor the way some city councillors spend our tax dollars . And I 'm not too crazy about the way many bureaucrats forget how hard we work for our money . Between them , seems many simply do n't treat our money as their own -- spending it in on useless communications strategies that do n't , protein shakes and expensive televisions for their offices .  I could go on . How about those frequent lunches where the bill is foisted on us ?  In one case , Kanata Coun. Allan Hubley picked up a meal tab which included Prime Minister Stephen Harper and then thought it a good idea to get taxpayers to pay for that bill !  Saner heads prevailed , and Hubley was clearly advised by brighter minds than his to pay the bill himself .  So no , I will never bill the taxpayers for breaking bread with you , my Senate colleagues , or any other politician for that matter .  Nor will I agree to have another politician pay for my meal if they 're passing the bill on to the taxpayer .  I have strong roots in Ottawa , have lived here for all but three years of my life . I was actually born in Arnprior , and enjoy bragging about my Ottawa Valley roots .  That being said , I do live in Ottawa and wo n't be attempting to claim the troubles that former journalists Pamela Wallin and Mike Duffy have seen , you might be apprehensive of my occupation . But look at the amazing work of the likes of Sen. Jim Munson for proof not all journalists abandon their principles .  It never ceases to amaze me that some get a great gig like the Senate , then seem to think it 's their absolute right to claim what appears quite clearly to be personal expenses .  I wo n't take so much as a coffee without returning the favour .  I 've got a proven record of community service -- and recently took that to the electorate -- running for city councillor . And while I failed to convince the voters -- I 'm proud to say I had volunteers of all political stripes lending their name and support to my campaign -- so feel confident I can as the rules require bring a perspective to the Senate that is independent and non-partisan .  In fact , I think the world is a better place when not viewed through the lens of party politics country , please count me in that group .