G2A.COM and Gaming for Good Announce:'Humanitarian ...
http://www.newswire.ca/news-releases/g2acom-and-gaming-for-good-announcehumanitarian-emergency-all-out-response-teamheart-564066631.html

" g2a and our g2a pay eco-system support this gaming for good initiative around the world and all gamers should generously contribute . " said dawid rozek .  evp of global payments at g2a.com , bob voermans , said that the heart initiative is fully supported by g2a pay . bob concluded : " in my estimation this partnership will increase donations because of a safe and trustworthy payment method . " https : //www.g2a.co/ ? why-g2a  " we want to do it through g2a pay , " said athene , " because it 's better , it has lower fees , so more goes to charity and since we have already built a really great relationship with g2a , we would love to see how we could further strengthen our relationship . " athene concluded : " from my own experience , gamers are extremely generous . when it comes to contributions , g2a is the biggest contributor that i know . "  g2a and athene collaborated on several projects including ' gamers got heart ' , local charity streams and auctions , . g2a managed to raise over 500 thousand dollars for save the children during 2014-2015 . the amount was amplified to 5 million usd and reached many children in need . http : **25;640;toolong  athene ( 700k subscribers ) , is one of the founders of gaming for good project supported by g2a.com . he is a world-famous content creator , which sees him live broadcasting on youtube and twitch about charity and community development . in 2012 , athene , working with save the children , raised more than $1 million for its sharecraft project .  g2a.com is the world 's fastest growing digital gaming marketplace , where customers can buy and sell digital products . with over 6 million unique users in 2014 , g2a achieved 150 million website visits and have partnered with gaming for good for several years .  g2a has over 25 thousand different gaming products , 6 million customers and welcomes over 250.000 new customers monthly . investing over 20 million euros , g2a researched and developed e-commerce solutions such as g2a pay , a safe and trustworthy professional payment process for using the most international on-line payment methods . this long term partnership will now see millions of needs met through generous gamers using g2a pay .