Where Uber is headed
http://www.torontosun.com/2016/01/17/where-uber-is-headed

but the uber-ization of ground transportation has made many uneasy about the future of jobs -- and the prospect of disrupting the traditional view of employment . will we all have uber-style jobs one day ?  the toronto sun spoke with john-kurt pliniussen , a queen 's university professor and business expert , about the growing sharing economy and where uber is headed :  *will uber stop ?  " it wo n't stop . what will happen is they will continue to experiment with all the inconvenience aspects of transportation . as long as there 's innovation and there are holes that are based on inconvenience , there 's no stop . the only possible restriction might be if there are certain regulations that ca n't be overcome . "  *are we all heading for uber-careers ? what does it say about the future of labour ?  " it presents new opportunities , for sure . i know people that just love it , for a couple of reasons . one is , it gives them extra cash in their off time job opportunity , especially if they love to drive . but that 's the whole part of the sharing economy . it basically takes a look at everything that 's part of our lives , whether it 's pets or food or clothing , the things we normally spend money on , and it says , " ok , so what 's another way of acquiring or sharing that , that presents an alternative that we did n't have before ? "  * what does it mean for the people working these jobs and for job security ?  " the entire economy wo n't be ' uberized , ' it can not be ' uberized . ' i mean , a big part of our economy is the service sector , the government sector , policing , health care -- that ca n't be ' uberized . '  *some people have raised the spectre of " uberized " health care .  " i personally hope so . i personally hope there are alternatives presented because the beautiful thing about uber is you do n't have to use they 're better . "  *what 's one thing you would want taxi drivers in toronto to accept at this point ?  " you ca n't go back . there was a time before credit cards , there was a time before bank machines , there was a time before virtual banking . "  *on the other hand , what 's something you would want uberx drivers to know ?  " they 're on the first wave . these are the early days of ride-sharing . there will be legislative changes . "  *right now it 's transportation and taxis . which industry is next in line for someone like airbnb or uber to disrupt ?  " the one i love is pets . that 's the one that 's caught my attention because the pet industry is huge . and it 's very expensive to have a pet and to look after it . the other one 's that big down here is renting high-end clothing and accessories . so you may want a hermes purse sometimes . but the hermes purse is $13,000 the hermes purse for x , y -- who 'd have thought ? "  but the uber-ization of ground transportation has made many uneasy about the future of jobs -- and the prospect of disrupting the traditional view of employment . will we all have uber-style jobs one day ?  the toronto sun spoke with john-kurt pliniussen , a queen 's university professor and business expert , about the growing sharing economy and where uber is headed :  *will uber stop ?  " it wo n't stop . what will happen is they will continue to experiment with all the inconvenience aspects of transportation . as long as there 's innovation and there are holes that are based on inconvenience , there 's no stop . the only possible restriction might be if there are certain regulations that ca n't be overcome . "