Business community raises concerns over lack of family physicians
http://www.trurodaily.com/News/Local/2016-01-17/article-4406728/Business-community-raises-concerns-over-lack-of-family-physicians/1

" a number of businesses have cited concerns regarding staff relocating and commuting from areas where access to a family physician can be obtained , " said chamber president andrew lake . " this raises broad implications for the economy of our region . "  in an effort to address the community 's concerns , the truro and colchester chamber of commerce is hosting a lunch and learn session jan. 27 .  in december , lake met with janet knox , ceo of the nova scotia health authority , as well as dr. nicole boutilier , executive medical director , northern zone , to share the business community 's concerns .  " we 've learned that the health authority is aware of the barrier in the community , with plans in place to navigate the issue , " said lake . " health care is undergoing a fundamental change in an effort to provide better access and sustainable delivery of services to citizens of nova scotia . "  lake said significant investments have been made to attract people to the area , including and the colchester east hants health centre .  these facilities , and other assets in the area , he said , are showcased by employers to attract staff .  " access to a family physician is a critical element to a sustainable and vibrant economy , " said lake .  the lunch will serve to provide up-to-date information on the health authority 's efforts to recruit physicians to the area . it is being held wednesday , jan. 27 , at noon at the best western glengarry featuring special guests dr. boutilier and cheryl northcott , executive director , operations , northern zone .  the event is sponsored by village family pharmchoice , bible hill . tickets are $15 plus hst for members and $20 plus hst for non-members .  for more information or to reserve a seat , call the chamber office at 902-895-6328 or email ec@tcchamber.ca.