Join our extended Boston Bruins community with Stanley Cup of ...
http://www.stanleycupofchowder.com/2016/1/17/10783094/simply-brad

brad marchand 's 16th goal of the season was scored on two separate occasions in last night 's 3-2 victory against the toronto maple leafs . the first occurrence , early in the final frame , saw patrice bergeron feed marchand in front with a beautiful tap-in pass . the call on the ice was challenged by maple leafs bench-boss mike babcock , and the goal was overturned -- the play ruled offside . it was back to 15 goals on the season for marchand , although that did n't last long .  with 47 seconds remaining in the third period , marchand picked off a martin marincin pass and fired it into a vacated net ; leafs goaltender jonathan bernier , who had played the puck to marincin behind the net , was caught in-between nowhere and the crease . which , as you can imagine , is not an ideal for a goalie to be .  with 16 goals to his name , marchand now sits second among bruins skaters in goals , trailing only patrice bergeron . bergeron , who entered last the evening -- opening the scoring just 45 seconds into the game on a breakaway set-up by a torey krug outlet pass . bergeron was credited with the bruins second goal of the game 39 seconds into the middle frame , deflecting a zdeno chara wrister past bernier .  marchand led bruins skaters with 6 shots on goal , a category the bruins dominated 45-29 on the evening . bergeron and ryan spooner each had 5 shots .  kevan miller , with his assist on the opening goal , now has a three-game point streak ( 1-2-3 ) .  despite boston 's advantage in shots , toronto hung around thanks in large part to bernier 's 42 saves , as well as goals from leo komarov and noted bruins-killer shawn matthias .  joe morrow , in the lineup for the first time since the outdoor game that did n't happen , committed an unforced turnover which led to the maple leafs first goal . the 23-year-old settled in as the game wore on and played a relatively solid 13:06 .  zac rinaldo picked up fighting major leafs goon richard clune in the first period .  the bruins travel to montreal on monday in preparation for tuesday 's clash against the rival canadiens at centre bell .  join stanley cup of chowder  authenticating  great !  choose an available username to complete sign up .  in order to provide our users with a better overall experience , we ask for more information from facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience . we do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with facebook.