Driver loses lawsuit against City of Surrey, worker
http://www.cloverdalereporter.com/news/367685111.html

connect with us  driver loses lawsuit against city of surrey , worker  a woman who sued the city of surrey and a maintenance worker for a 2012 collision has lost her lawsuit .  roshan ara ali claimed that truck driver rajinder sandhu and the city of surrey were responsible for a collision that took place near the exit of a parking lot on scott road near 95 avenue .  the city and sandhu argued that ali was at fault because she illegally passed sandhu 's 40-foot truck on the right .  ali testified on her own behalf , claiming she was leaving the parking lot of her bank when she got stuck behind a large , slow-moving truck . she said she moved her vehicle to the right -- the direction she wanted to turn on to scott road -- believing the truck was turning left . she then claimed the truck 's reverse lights came on and it reversed into her , striking the side of her car on an angle .  sandhu , who was servicing sewer pipes and right turn onto scott road -- under the direction of two safety workers -- when he heard a " crunch . " it was only then , he said , that he saw ali 's vehicle on his right . he said he was never backing up in the parking lot .  the investigating surrey rcmp officer testified ali 's version of events was not consistent with the vehicle damage he saw , as there was no damage to the rear of the truck ali claimed had reversed into her .  in her feb. 1 decision , justice martha devlin sided with the city and sandhu , noting ali was not a credible witness .  " her version of events was sometimes vague and changed throughout her testimony , depending on what aspect of her testimony was challenged , " said devlin . " as a result her testimony was internally inconsistent and contradictory . "  the judge also questioned ali 's revelation that in 2014 , two years after the crash , she encountered a woman who had witnesses the incident . while first saying she had prior contact -- a suggestion devlin said the plaintiff tried to " explain away " at trial .  " ms. ali 's explanation of how she discovered the supposed witness ... was most damaging to her credibility even though the witness did not testify at trial . "  devlin concluded ali was solely responsible for the collision , dismissing her lawsuit , with costs .  we encourage an open exchange of ideas on this story 's topic , but we ask you to follow our guidelines for respecting community standards . personal attacks , inappropriate language , and off-topic comments may be removed , and comment privileges revoked , per our terms of use . please see our faq if you have questions or concerns about using facebook to comment .