'Ambitions' for child care on agenda for federal-provincial talks
http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/social-service-ministers-child-care-meeting-1.3433626

' ambitions ' for child care on agenda for federal-provincial talks  jean-yves duclos , minister of families , children and social development , is heading to edmonton to meet with provincial social services ministers to discuss national child-care programs , early learning and affordable housing . ( sean kilpatrick/canadian press )  the federal families minister is heading west to meet his provincial and territorial counterparts to talk about the path forward on a national child-care system .  the meeting comes more than 10 years after former liberal minister ken dryden and nine provinces agreed to create a national daycare program , only to watch the conservatives end those agreements when they took office in 2006 .  social development minister jean-yves duclos says the two-day meeting in edmonton , which starts today , is a chance to talk anew about a national early learning and child-care framework and how it might look .  duclos says provincial situations have changed over the last 10 years , with some offering early learning and child-care services that they did n't offer a decade ago .  into how far they are willing to go on a national child-care system .  child-care is at the top of the agenda at the social service ministers ' meeting in edmonton today . ( cbc )  " we 'll have to discuss quite frankly the type of ambitions we have in moving forward , " duclos said . " so the listening aspect on my part will be extremely important . "  it is n't the only item on the agenda . the group will have to discuss how to implement the liberals ' promised canada child benefit that will replace the universal child-care benefit , but wo n't be in place until july 1 . duclos said the group is also going to discuss ways to tackle the issue of aboriginal children in foster care .  child care will be " an important element of our agenda , " duclos said .  child care is provincial responsibility with the federal government indirectly providing about $20 billion annually in provincial transfers , child and family benefits and tax breaks . the federal government directly spends about , funding about 8,500 spaces nationwide .  it 's that spending power that gives the federal government a hand in the child-care system .  new spaces cost more than subsidies  the liberals promised a child-care framework in their election platform , but did n't put firm numbers and details on what they wanted to see , as the ndp did in promising a $15-a-day program modelled on the government-funded system in quebec .  an internal review of the ndp platform commitment by employment and social development canada , the department duclos oversees , found that the cost to create a new child-care space ranged from about $11,500 to $16,000 . the review said the cost of creating a new space is higher than subsidizing an existing spot .  the review , dated sept. 25 , 2015 , noted there were still a number of questions to be answered about how the federal government could play a more active role in child care , but that information -- along with advice on how to overcome challenges -- was blacked out from the documents obtained by the canadian are approximately 2.3 million children in canada age five and under . the 2011 census showed the size of this age cohort grew by 11 per cent between 2006 and 2011 , the biggest bulge since the baby boom generation .  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .