Donald Trump gets the devotion of the disaffected in New Hampshire
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/donald-trump-gets-the-devotion-of-the-disaffected-in-new-hampshire/article28660115/

Donald Trump gets the devotion of the disaffected in New Hampshire Add to ...  Inside the low-ceilinged main room of the Elks Lodge in Salem , Bill Frisone and Billy Strules slide into a row of seats to await their first-ever political event . Mr. Strules , a 58-year-old building contractor , ca n't remember the last time he voted in any election . " We 're the least political people in the world , " adds Mr. Frisone , 52 .  Yet the two men , best friends for four decades , made sure to be here on Monday morning for only one reason : Donald Trump . It 's the first time in their lives that they identify with a candidate enough to support him in person and to make sure they 're registered to vote .  " He 's finally talking about the things that got swept under the carpet , " Mr. Strules says . Things like kicking people off welfare and getting them back to work , or shutting the country 's borders to illegal immigrants , he says race is the way that certain candidates are making inroads with voters who long ago gave up on the electoral process . On the Republican side , Mr. Trump has tapped into a group of disaffected citizens who skew Republican . On the Democratic side , Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders is accomplishing something similar .  One day remains before New Hampshire voters go to the polls in a pivotal primary that will determine whether Mr. Trump 's popularity can actually translate into a victory at the ballot box . After finishing second in the Iowa caucuses to Texas Senator Ted Cruz , he needs to win to prove that his insurgent candidacy remains a force to be reckoned with .  Sweeping in from a side door , Mr. Trump , in a dark suit and a striped tie , does n't disappoint them .  He promises to get tough -- with the China on trade deals , with Iran on its nuclear weapons and with the Islamic State . " I guarantee you that IS is laughing like hell at the U.S. " when politicians debate the legality 'm going to be the worst thing that ever happened to them . "  Mr. Trump skewers those he dislikes , particularly former Florida governor Jeb Bush . He does a mocking imitation of Mr. Bush 's voice and calls him " a total stiff , " " a spoiled child , " a lightweight " and " not a smart man . "  Mostly , he assures the assembled voters that he will take care of things , offering very few details . " We got ta get Apple to make their computers in the U.S. , okay ? " he says .  He asserts that the key is preventing currency manipulation . " I know how to play that game better than anybody . Believe me , we 're going to be so competitive . "  Mr. Trump emphasizes that he is self-funding his campaign , which means he is n't beholden to moneyed interests . In a typically bombastic statement , he claims that had he taken outside contributions , he would have already amassed a fund of $500-million or more .  When in the eye and tell them that they are not welcome in the U.S. , Mr. Trump does n't hesitate to say yes . " We do n't know where their parents came from , " he says . " They have no documents whatsoever . They may be ISIS . "  For good measure , he casts aspersions on all migrants travelling to Europe . " Where the hell do they get their cellphones ? " he bellows . " Who 's paying the bill for the cellphones ? "  For voters like Mr. Strules and Mr. Frisone , Mr. Trump is right on the mark . Mr. Frisone says he would support Mr. Trump 's call to prevent Muslims from entering the United States . " It 's a start , " he says . " Perhaps not to that extreme . "  Mr. Trump urges everyone in the room at attend a large rally later on Monday in Manchester and , most of all , to vote in Tuesday 's primary . Then , after he stops speaking , he is mobbed by people requesting the crowd and emerges a few minutes later , beaming : Mr. Trump has signed the inside of Mr. Frisone 's hat , which bears the campaign 's slogan , Make America Great Again .