On the hunt for Toronto's Tina and Amy
http://www.thestar.com/entertainment/2016/02/08/on-the-hunt-for-torontos-tina-and-amy.html

On the hunt for Toronto 's Tina and Amy  Meat Locker Editions , a not-for-profit organization , is dedicated to publishing the works of young writers ( mostly women , all of them smart ) . Founders Sarah Beaudin ( a designer and publisher ) and Madeleine Curry ( a freelance editor ) also run community events , including a monthly reading series and the Book Bike , a mobile lending library -- literally on a bike -- that circles the city from May through October  By:Gabrielle JohnsonSpecial to the Star , Published on Mon Feb 08 2016  Q : I 'm gutted that Tina Fey and Amy Poehler did n't host a movie awards show this year . Their biting , funny , she-for-she style is #goals . Where can I find some similar ladies locally to support ?  A : Sing it , sister . Tina and Amy 's three-year Golden Globes hosting gig was a veritable buffet of brilliantly sly one-liners -- remember their description of Gravity as " the story of how George Clooney would rather float away in woman his own age ? " -- so it is indeed a shame that they 've packed up their gowns and made way for male hosts to resume centre stage .  Luckily , there 's no shortage of dynamic female duos ( and trios and quartets ) doing cool , funny stuff in Toronto , so you can get your Fey-Poehler-esque cultural fix whenever the mood strikes . Start with Drunk Feminist Films , a feminist collective that knocks Hollywood gender stereotypes down a few pegs by screening blockbusters like Twilight , Fifty Shades of Grey and Love Actually , and mocking the living crap out of them . Drinking games add to the hilarity and the events always sell out , so book quickly for the Feb. 4 and 6 screenings of Bring It On .  According to T&amp;A lore , the pair began their legendary best friendship at Second City in Chicago , so why not check out Toronto 's sketch comedy scene for our own Next Big Thing(s) ? My money 's on Steph Tolev and Allison Hogg , the brains behind sketch duo LadyStache . and countless live performances under their belts , Tolev and Hogg might just follow in Tina and Amy 's footsteps .  And since this whole love fest is basically a celebration of smart , quick-witted women , delve into Meat Locker Editions , a not-for-profit organization dedicated to publishing the works of young writers ( mostly women , all of them smart ) . Founders Sarah Beaudin ( a designer and publisher ) and Madeleine Curry ( a freelance editor ) also run community events , including a monthly reading series and the Book Bike , a mobile lending library -- literally on a bike -- that circles the city from May through October .