What every TTC streetcar would look like as Lego
http://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2016/03/06/what-every-ttc-streetcar-would-look-like-as-lego.html

Brick by brick , Trevor Parkins-Sciberras is building an appreciation for Toronto 's transit system .  Lego brick , that is .  The 24-year-old freelance video editor is constructing Lego models depicting the evolution of Toronto 's transit , from the horse-drawn streetcars that ran on rails in the unpaved streets of " Muddy York , " to the new Bombardier fleet rolling out today .  When he knew he wanted to build his own mini streetcars and buses after a trip to a Milton railway museum , picking a medium was easy .  " I would n't really know how else to make a model of these vehicles . Lego 's kind of my thing , " he said .  When it could n't be found in his bins , he ordered custom pieces online .  Not the first transit fan to convert piles of red Lego bricks into " red rocket " models , he found plans for the CLRV streetcars , which still dominate the fleet , online .  TTC spokesperson Brad Ross thinks the models are Torontonians in so many positive ways . The pride in the TTC and how that manifests itself always delights us , " Ross said in an email .  Ultimately , Parkins-Sciberras would like to see the models trotted out for special events , like Doors Open Toronto , at the Toronto Railway Museum .  He hopes the models and his other transit projects , including a video series , spur an interest and appreciation for the TTC and " make more people enthusiasts rather than whining because their bus was delayed by five minutes , " he said .  " I like to tell people that they should be thankful the streetcars are n't still pulled by horses . "  Toronto Railway Company " open car , " converted from a former horse-drawn car . ( This replica using original parts from an 1892 model was built for Toronto 's centennial in 1934 . )  Parkins-Sciberras says he did n't draw formal plans . " It was mostly by looking at the old photos . You study the design of the streetcar and just translate it "  Introduced in 1938 , the President 's Conference Committee Cars came to be affectionately known as the " Red Rockets . "  " I 've spent my whole life either taking the TTC or riding a bike , so I 'm not too fond of cars , " said Parkins-Sciberras . " I think cars hog a lot of space on the roads , and that the TTC is much more environmentally friendly . "  The CLRVs , and their articulated versions , are in the process of being retired after more than 30 years of service in the TTC fleet .  Construction of the CLRV model took six straight hours , most of that spent digging through bins .  Since he started the project , Parkins-Sciberras has tapped into the large community of transit enthusiasts . Though many share photographs and history , he thought there was room for more original content .  Parkins-Sciberras ' model of the TTC 's newest streetcar , the Flexity , used about 700 pieces . Models of the older , blockier versions have closer to 200 pieces @