Kenora teen Delaine Copenace, 16, still missing
http://www.kenoradailyminerandnews.com/2016/03/06/kenora-teen-delaine-copenace-16-still-missing

News Local  Kenora teen Delaine Copenace , 16 , still missing  MINER AND NEWS  Sunday , March 6 , 2016 9:54:02 EST PM  Missing 16-year-old Delaine Copenace 's family and friends held a candlelight vigil through the streets of Kenora on Sunday , March 6 . Copenace has been missing since Feb. 27 and the search to find her is continuing . RYAN YOUNG/Daily Miner and News  Family and friends held a candlelight vigil for missing 16-year-old Delaine Copenace on Sunday , March 6 .  Copenace 's family lit the first candles and the same light was used to ignite all of the candles for the roughly 100 people who walked .  The route of the walk started at the Knox United Church and circled past Market Square and the Kenora Shopping Mall before returning to the church .  Copenace was last seen in the downtown area in the evening of Feb. 27 . She is described as First Nation , five-foot-10 , larger build , long black hair with brown eyes . She was last seen wearing black " bullet for my valentine " T-shirt and black jeans with zippered pockets .  The search has expanded into the surrounding areas of Kenora with the assistance of the OPP Northwest Region Emergency Response Team ( ERT ) , OPP K9 Unit , the OPP Provincial Liaison Team ( PLT ) , Canadian Pacific Police Service , Treaty Three Police , Lake of the Woods Search and Rescue ( LOWSAR ) , the Canadian Centre for Child Protection and a large number of community volunteers .  The ongoing investigation is continuing under the direction of Det . Insp . Randy Heida of the OPP Criminal Investigation Branch . Since the initial report was received by the OPP , efforts to locate Delaine have also continued to expand to include police , media and community partners across the country .  The OPP asks that any information from the public is shared with police first before it is posted onto social media platforms . This will allow investigators an opportunity to thoroughly investigate the content of each and every tip that is received .  Citizens are being asked to outdoor areas . If anyone locates anything out of the ordinary , please contact the OPP immediately at the provided numbers or CRIMESTOPPERS at 1-800-222 TIPS(8477) .  Anyone who has seen Copenace or knows of her whereabouts is asked to contact the Kenora OPP at ( 807 ) 548-5534 or call 1-888-310-1122.