Beaver Brae's Tresoor honoured for commitment to academics ...
http://www.kenoradailyminerandnews.com/2016/03/06/beaver-braes-tresoor-honoured-for-commitment-to-academics-athletics

sports high school sports  beaver brae 's tresoor honoured for commitment to academics , athletics  sheri lamb  miner and news  sunday , march 6 , 2016 10:06:35 est pm  dave tresoor was awarded the ofsaa leadership in school sport award for his dedication and commitment to combining athletics with academics at beaver brae secondary school during the ofsaa girls ' aa ' volleyball championships banquet on sunday , march 6 . sheri lamb/daily miner and news  more accustomed to shining a light on his students , dave tresoor found himself in the spotlight during the ontario federation of school athletic associations ' banquet for the girls ' aa ' volleyball championship on sunday .  tresoor was awarded the ofsaa leadership in school sport award for his dedication and commitment to combining athletics with academics at beaver brae secondary school .  " it 's humbling . volunteers do n't expect any recognition so it came as a great surprise , " said tresoor about receiving the award march 6 . " it 's something that 's very much appreciated , for the kids . that 's our ultimate goal . "  tresoor began his teaching and coaching career in red lake in 1990 where he taught for nine years , while also coaching hockey , soccer , volleyball and badminton . when the keewatin-patricia district school board was created in 1999 , tresoor moved to kenora to teach at beaver brae .  prior to embarking on his teaching career , tresoor played for the st. james canadians in the manitoba junior hockey league and through his experience was awarded a scholarship to brandon university where he played hockey and received his teaching degree . he said he decided to pursue teaching as a career because he remembered having a lot of teachers who encouraged and mentored him during his school days and he wanted to give back .  tresoor said combining athletics with academics helps build stronger bonds with the students .  " it 's to have an opportunity to build a relationship with the kids . those relationships you build when you 're a coach carry over to the classroom and it just creates a real you outside the classroom , " said tresoor . " i was very fortunate over my career when i was growing up to have a number of great coaches and mentors . "  in addition to teaching and coaching various school sports , tresoor initiated the creation of the hockey academy program in 2012 which has moved beyond beaver brae and kenora to encompass many keewatin-patricia district schools and is still growing . tresoor was in red lake last week to help the school get an academy up and running .  " it was my ultimate goal to get the students of keewatin-patricia , at least for the students in kenora , to be able to participate . i never thought we would be able to take it board wide , " said tresoor . " we just continue to expand and to give as many kids the opportunity that we can . "  he will also step into a new role at beaver brae starting march 21 when he assumes the duties of vice principal .  tresoor said the worlds of teacher and coach are n't kids reach a goal .  " i 've been fortunate enough to a part of a number of great teams , both as a player and a coach , where maybe we went in as the underdog and were able to achieve more than we were expected to . we believed in each other , " said tresoor . " i guess when it comes to teaching as well it 's kind of the same when you have an opportunity to work with a group of kids and nurse them along and get them to the point where they 're able to graduate and prepare them to go after high school . it 's just so nice to see when you get a group of kids together that achieve something that they 've always wanted . it 's pretty rewarding . "  in november 2015 , beaver brae athletic director reg mcdonald received the ofsaa leadership in school sport award .