ChannelAdvisor Director of Business Operations Danielle McNeillie ...
http://www.digitaljournal.com/pr/2863675

research triangle park , n.c.-- ( business wire ) --channeladvisor corporation ( nyse:ecom ) , a leading provider of cloud-based e-commerce solutions that enable retailers and branded manufacturers to increase global sales , today announced that danielle mcneillie , channeladvisor director of business operations and salesforce-certified administrator , has been recognized by the triangle business journal as a recipient of a 2016 women in business award . the women in business awards celebrate women in the research triangle who are dynamic and outstanding leaders with significant accomplishments in business and community service . this year 's women in business winners will be honored at an awards luncheon on monday , april 4 at the raleigh marriott crabtree valley .  " danielle has gone above and beyond since the day she joined channeladvisor . she 's the kind of employee that every ceo wants on their team , " said david spitz , channeladvisor ceo . " since joining channeladvisor , danielle has been dedicated to her role and has gone the extra mile to support all departments across the company around the globe . she 's to have her . "  as director of business operations and salesforce-certified administrator , mcneillie is responsible for managing internal applications and business processes . she touches many aspects of channeladvisor 's day-to-day operations , supporting the entire customer journey , from the first marketing touch to customer support . she started working at channeladvisor more than seven years ago and has managed 18 team members altogether , overseeing business processes and supporting applications at the same time .  the channeladvisor platform offers retailers and branded manufacturers leading cloud-based solutions to efficiently automate and manage the online selling process across multiple channels , including third-party marketplaces and digital marketing channels such as paid search and comparison shopping engines . by eliminating the tedious tasks of optimizing online listings and analyzing performance , channeladvisor enables sellers to increase sales and successfully scale their e-commerce businesses .  channeladvisor ( nyse:ecom ) is a leading provider of cloud-based e-commerce solutions that enable retailers and manufacturers to integrate , manage and optimize their merchandise sales across hundreds of online channels including amazon , google , ebay , facebook and more . through a single inventory feed to more efficiently list and advertise products online , and connect with shoppers to increase sales . billions of dollars in merchandise value are driven through channeladvisor 's platform every year , and thousands of customers use channeladvisor 's solutions to help grow their businesses . for more information , visit www.channeladvisor.com.