The pros and cons of unlimited vacation
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/careers/career-advice/life-at-work/the-pros-and-cons-of-unlimited-vacation/article29099441/

following in the footsteps of some of its silicon valley neighbours , social-media marketing provider buffer inc. eliminated employee vacation caps in 2014 , but quickly discovered that the policy was having the opposite of its intended effect .  " we thought it sounded cool , so we kind of adopted that more or less without looking at it through a critical lens , " said leo widrich , the company 's chief executive officer and co-founder . " the following two years , we found that people on the whole were taking very little vacation time . "  jeff booth  balance  only nine of buffer 's 25 employees travelled in 2014 , and mr. widrich grew concerned that it was having a negative impact on the company . in hindsight , he attributes the policy 's failure in part to the military-like camaraderie of the startup world , where taking time off can feel like leaving your fellow soldiers behind on the battlefield . furthermore , mr. widrich suggests that his employees may have felt uncomfortable taking time when he and his founding the company three years before .  it became so uncommon to travel that , in 2015 , buffer began offering bonuses to staff just for going on vacation : $1,000 for themselves and another $500 for each of their travel companions . since then , 33 of the company 's 35 employees have claimed their bonuses .  while the concept of " paid-paid vacation " may seem foreign in canada , some u.s. firms -- such as evernote and fullcontact -- began paying staff to unwind after concluding that " unlimited vacation " unintentionally equated to " no vacation . "  as canadian employers begin to implement their own unlimited-vacation policies , however , they have the advantage of learning from the pitfalls experienced south of the border . many are now introducing such policies with suggested or mandatory minimum requirements , allowing staff to take time to unwind without any of the guilt .  " we 've had a chance to see their mistakes , " said fraser stark , the vice-president of talent for influitive corp. , a toronto-based marketing software provider with 150 around what is reasonable behaviour , and we 've solved that in a number of ways : one is demonstrating at the senior leadership level what appropriate behaviour is ; another is having tongue-in-cheek ' minimum ' levels of vacation . "  while some might view an unlimited vacation policy as a competitive recruiting tactic , mr. stark says that influitive had a different goal in mind . he explains that the company 's decision to eliminate caps on vacation time is representative of its corporate culture .  " we do n't measure what time people get in or leave at the start or end of the day , it 's not a punch-clock culture , and likewise , we do n't measure how many days per year people work , " he said . " it can be a great test to see who is dedicated to the company . if you put this approach to vacation in place and someone books an eight-week caribbean vacation , you 've learned something about how much they care about the company and achieving results . "  furthermore , by each year , mr. stark says it also forces the company to learn how to operate without them . " any employee could get poached away or run into a medical problem , so you 're better off using your vacation policy as a way to test coping with an employee 's absence before it happens , " he said .  kurtis mcbride , the chief executive officer and co-founder of kitchener-based miovision technologies inc. -- which provides traffic-management technology solutions for municipal governments -- believes that the days of formal vacation allowances may be coming to an end . while the company has informally upheld an unlimited-vacation policy since its launch more than 10 years ago , it was only made official last month , and incorporated a mandatory minimum .  " i 'd like to think there 's a revolution under way right now , where employers are starting to treat their employees like people , trusting them to come in and give it their all and do their best work , " he said . " employers across the country are starting to trust their employees that might abuse the policy but the 99 per cent that are coming in with the best of intentions . "  jeff booth , the ceo and co-founder of vancouver-based builddirect.com technologies inc. , agrees that unlimited vacation is just one symptom of a larger revolution taking shape in workplaces across canada . " when you design systems to prevent abuse for the worst people , you 're actually hurting the best people , " he said , adding that his company 's unlimited-vacation policy , which went into effect at the beginning of the year , included a mandatory minimum as well . " when you trust people , they tend to trust you right back . "  while many of the workplace trends that originate in silicon valley eventually make their way north , the trend of paid-paid vacation may not become necessary , thanks to the guidelines canadian employers are putting in place .  " if it was baked in from the start , i think we would have saved some time and money , " mr. widrich said , speculating on how things might with buffer 's original unlimited vacation policy . " people probably would n't need the financial incentive to go on vacation . "  restrictions  all rights reserved . republication or redistribution of thomson reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in thomson reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' thomson reuters ' and the thomson reuters logo are trademarks of thomson reuters and its affiliated companies .