Video sparks investigation into waste collection employee's actions ...
http://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2016/03/09/video-sparks-investigation-into-waste-collection-employees-actions-in-milton.html

what started as a milton woman 's innocent facebook post showing waste collection staff shoveling snow into a garbage truck has now led to an investigation of the employee 's unusual actions and his dismissal .  both halton region and miller waste systems are looking into the incident that occurred on a quiet milton street monday morning .  anna o'sullivan was looking out her home office window on potts terrace , where she noticed something unusual -- a waste services employee not only picking up her garbage , but shoveling a large amount of snow into the truck as well .  " i thought maybe it was because the snow was too far out on the street , " said o'sullivan , who shot a video of the incident and posted it to facebook praising the man for what seemed like above-and-beyond service . " the video got a whole bunch of comments , with some saying this was nice , but others saying he did this to make the garbage truck heavy . "  with the region paying miller waste systems for ( for the employee ) was to add weight to the truck , " said halton commissioner of public works jim harnum .  " it 's absolutely inappropriate , and we 've taken it very seriously , " he said . " we 've been working with miller for many years and never had an incident like this . "  the commissioner said the region did n't pay miller for the loads that arrived at the waste transfer station on the truck in question and is now investigating the vehicle 's history for anomalies to determine if further action is needed .  " we do have supervisors on the road daily checking these trucks , and we have spotters at the transfer station . if a load is soaking wet we would see that immediately , " he said .  if the addition of snow in garbage trucks was a systemic problem , harnum estimated it could add one per cent to the tonnage of waste being hauled locally .  " but we think this is an isolated issue , " he noted . " there into the transfer station to make a huge effect . "  he added , " we have a really good relationship with miller . they are a very open , honest contractor . we think this was just a rogue employee who took it upon himself to try to help the bottom line of this company . "  the region will be assessing a fine to the contractor based on the results of its investigation , said harnum .  miller waste systems is also taking the matter very seriously and has since suspended the employee pending the results of the investigation , said denis goulet , vice president and general manager of miller waste systems inc . the company confirmed wednesday morning that the employee has since been fired , but offered no additional details .  " obviously this is in violation of our company policy and contractual obligation with the region , " he said . " whatever his motivation was , we will find out as we complete our investigation . "