Vancouver readies for impact as host of World Sevens Series rugby ...
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/british-columbia/vancouver-readies-for-impact-as-host-of-world-sevens-series-rugby-event/article29126337/

Vancouver readies for impact as host of World Sevens Series rugby event Add to ...  Vancouver 's Rugby Sevens Series is expected to draw visitors from around the globe -- and though the chief executive officer of the event says it 's getting difficult to find a hotel room , organizers are still trying to determine what the economic impact will be .  The two-day event kicks off Saturday , marking the first time Vancouver has hosted the Sevens Series .  Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson , speaking at a news conference for the event Wednesday , said the city has excelled at hosting global sporting events in recent years , such as the Winter Olympics and the Women 's World Cup of soccer .  " It 's another opportunity to build our global profile , attract more tourism . That 's just a win-win for us , " he said .  Michelle Collens , the city 's manager of sports hosting , said of the approximately 60,000 tickets that have been sold , at least 6,500 have been to people outside B.C. 2,500 internationally .  " The hotels are going to be packed , the restaurants are going to be packed , the city 's just going to come to life , " she said .  Finding an economic projection for the event , however , proved a challenge Wednesday .  Bill Cooper , chief executive officer of Canada Sevens , said a figure has not been put together .  Anecdotally , he said trying to find hotel rooms for rugby officials in the past couple of weeks has been a challenge .  " This is not normally a high-volume weekend . So that 's a good sign , " he said .  Steve Thomson , B.C. 's Minister of Forests and a former member of the Canadian national rugby team , said the province has contributed $245,000 to the event -- $170,000 in broadcast production costs and $75,000 in hosting support .  " We recognize what this means to British Columbia , a chance to showcase our province , showcase Vancouver to the world , and this is just a great opportunity because it helps legacies from all of this , " Mr. Thomson told the news conference .  Both the mayor and the minister took time Wednesday to discuss their personal connection to the sport .  Mr. Robertson said he took up rugby at Carson Graham Secondary School and went on to play a season in a New Zealand professional league " before my body called it quits . "  Mr. Robertson said his on-field nickname that season was " Canada . "  Mr. Thomson said his rugby nickname was " the Blue Ox . " He did not explain why .  Canada 's first game is against Wales on Saturday , just after noon .  Vancouver is the sixth stop in a 10-country tour . The Sevens Series , like skiing , awards its championship on total points accumulated over the season . The season concludes in late May in London .  With approximately 60,000 tickets sold , the Vancouver tournament has surpassed the expectations of its organizers . An additional 5,000 seats in BC Place Stadium were made available last week .  Played over two tournament runs at a frantic pace , with 45 games of 14 minutes each until the final , which lasts 20 minutes .