Antique steam launch may move to Ohio
http://www.thewhig.com/2016/03/11/antique-steam-launch-may-move-to-ohio

News Local  Antique steam launch may move to Ohio  Ron Lees , left , chairman of the Friends of the Phoebe , and Gordon Robinson , curator of the Pump House Steam Museum , stand in front of the Phoebe in this 2014 file photo . ( Michael Lea/Whig-Standard file photo )  Phoebe , the well-travelled little steam launch built in Kingston 102 years ago , may soon be on the move again .  A city committee recently endorsed a staff recommendation to pack up the 16-metre boat and send it , on loan , to an American museum in Toledo , Ohio .  The decision is n't sitting well among the few remaining volunteers with Friends of the Phoebe who have worked over the years to refurbish the boat and maintain it as an important part of Kingston 's marine history .  " Most people are very discouraged , " Henk Wevers said . " We have basically put in almost 13 to 14 years of volunteer work . It has become our second career . "  Phoebe was which still operates on Kingston 's Inner Harbour , for an American manufacturer of scientific instruments , John Brashear .  Brashear named the launch after his wife and had it shipped to their summer home in the Muskokas .  In 1978 , a group of local volunteers , in conjunction with the Pump House Steam Museum , brought the boat back home to Kingston .  Evolving into the group Friends of the Phoebe , they undertook major restoration work starting in 1998 and the boat was rededicated to the city in 2003 .  " We told city staff our group was getting older . We had funded everything ourselves and wanted to turn it over to staff , " Wevers said .  A group of local high school students , meantime , volunteered to build a massive crib so the boat could be safely stored in a more permanent setting behind the steam museum .  Now , however , the city has plans to expand the museum and build new public washrooms right where the Phoebe rests .  That led city staff to make Collections Advisory Committee , which chose the option of loaning the boat , no longer considered seaworthy , to the National Museum of the Great Lakes in Toledo .  Coun. Peter Stroud is hoping to keep a number of options open . The worst , in his opinion , would be to put Phoebe into indefinite storage out of public view .  " What I support is having the Phoebe on display , " Stroud said .  He would agree to sending the Phoebe to Toledo , but only after local options are absolutely exhausted .