Ambassador is 'big on Brantford'
http://www.brantfordexpositor.ca/2016/03/11/ambassador-is-big-on-brantford

news brantford-brant  ambassador is ' big on brantford '  andy molenaar , named a brantford ambassador by the economic development advisory committee friday , says he 's " big on brantford " and has contributed to the city through his job , volunteering and extensive committee work . ( susan gamble/brantford expositor )  business is doing well for brantford and so , on friday , brantford offered thanks to business .  at the weekly rotary club meeting at the brantford golf and country club , the program was turned over to the economic development advisory committee so it could recognize new brantford companies , a couple of long-standing businesses and one ambassador of the city .  " we do a lot of work to ensure brantford is an attractive place for businesses to invest and a wonderful city for employees to enjoy , " said john utley , who is on the committee .  " and we 're doing great , " said john utley .  " the unemployment rate in brantford is below the provincial and national average , . our land prices are competitive and the amenities here are right up there with the best . and we have the grand river . "  the annual event honoured two local companies that have remained in brantford since being established in 1970 .  stm construction , which began as shultz construction in 1927 and then taylor construction , has more than 30 employees working in design/build jobs , project management and general contracting . it was renamed stm in 1999 to reflect the history of the company owners - shultz , taylor and moyer .  envurol company limited on morton ave is a sister firm of brandoflex limited and supplies polyurethane rolls and custom parts for envelope manufacturers . it employs five people .  the luncheon also recognized 11 new industries in the area :  * mitsui high-tec inc. is creating its first north american factory in brantford on fen ridge court where it will build motor cores for eco-friendly vehicles . phase 1 expects to create 50 new jobs and further expansion should develop another 50 jobs with an overall investment of up to in brantford from toronto to produce components used by apparel manufacturers worldwide , including items used at sporting events or by emergency responders . it employs 30 people .  * vistacare communications on zatonski avenue has 30 people designing , building , installing and serving all aspects of commercial communications and building security systems .  * metro freightliner brantford relocated to the city and expanded operations into 9,600 square feet on craig street . the full service centre for heavy trucks and trailers employs 23 and offers new and used sales plus service on all makes and models .  * advance clean air technologies global , on henry street , combines several technology portfolios to deliver emission control solutions for a wide range of vehicles and equipment . it has 10 employees .  * battlefield equipment rentals opened a 14,000 square foot building on abbott court where it offers a full range of construction equipment for rent or sale . it employs 10 people .  * aecon industrial provides support for aecon 's piping , custom steel and module fabrication facilities in other communities with a , a craft brewery on woodyatt drive has seven employees and is experiencing continued growth in specialty beers that are sold in more than 200 lcbos and grocery stores .  * modern waste products is the maker of the binpak compactor , a self-contained compactor for waste , recycling or cardboard to reduce pick up frequency and collection truck interruptions . it employs seven people .  * progressive air services supplies engines and parts to aviation customers worldwide . it 's partnered with brant aero to expand services in eastern canada and set up a parts depot at the brantford airport . it will have a staff of three initially .  finally , the luncheon honoured the volunteerism and economic development work of andy molenaar by giving him the brantford ambassador award .  " i 've known andy for over 20 years , " said utley after the luncheon , " and through volunteer work , business involvement and his job , he 's just a nice , genuine , hardworking individual who cares about his community . "  molenaar , who has often stood in ones , has a history of community work through myrtleville house museum , the bci alumni , brantford aquatic club and the local chamber of commerce . he 's sat on numerous committees and boards and worked with the economic development group for seven years .  " the city of brantford has been good to my parents , my family and me so it 's my way of giving back , " molenaar said after the event .  molenaar was heavily involved with the old puc and brantford power and said he felt he did something important for the ratepayers of brantford by helping to keep expenses down .  " i 'm a big advocate for volunteering , " molenaar said . " it allows you to be in contact with quality people and people should be involved in the community that grants them all the privileges we have here in brantford. "