TV broadcasters look for a happy medium to keep sports fans engaged
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/sports/tv-broadcasters-look-for-a-happy-medium-to-keep-sports-fans-engaged/article29302445/

Senior producer Sherali Najak , left , and director Paul Hemming work in the broadcast truck during the airing of the CBC 's Hockey Night in Canada , produced by Rogers Media , in a Dec. 6 , 2014 file photo . ( Mark Blinch For The Globe and Mail )  Senior producer Sherali Najak , left , and director Paul Hemming work in the broadcast truck during the airing of the CBC 's Hockey Night in Canada , produced by Rogers Media , in a Dec. 6 , 2014 file photo . ( Mark Blinch For The Globe and Mail )  Millennials are watching television like no other age group since the dawn of the tube -- they 're doing it any time , anywhere . But while those unpredictable viewing habits create headaches for prime-time programmers and people selling advertising time , a recent study suggests millennials wo n't disrupt sports programming to the same extent . And that would be a relief to networks that have paid billions for broadcast rights .  That does n't mean rights-holders are in the clear that multiplatform viewing demands a new structure for such rights contracts , with a greater emphasis on mobile and digital platforms as opposed to conventional television . Networks need other revenue streams to make up for lower conventional TV ratings for almost all sports , declining cable subscriptions and , especially , rising rights fees for sports properties .  Trouble is , no one has figured out how to generate those replacement revenues . As a result , both Rogers Media and Bell Media , which own Sportsnet and TSN , respectively , noted in their most recent annual reports that increased rights fees were the most significant factor limiting the networks ' earnings .  The millennial effect is supposed to be the undoing of TV 's business model . There were those ominous stories about how declining subscriptions , cord-cutting and high costs at ESPN , the U.S. cable-sports behemoth , had been a drag on its parent company , Walt Disney Co . And there 's still a fear that pick-and-pay and unbundling will slash subscription numbers for Canadian sports networks , too .  There is . Skeptics have doubted the network axiom -- that live sports events attract a demographic that sponsors crave , 18- to 55-year-old men who prefer to tune in live , on whatever platform they use , in real time .  Media analysts are divided on whether broadcasters have overpaid for the rights deals . But none of them sees any imminent decline in revenue for the leagues , thanks to one factor : Sports provide programming that viewers -- even millennials -- are willing to consume live , rather than recording it for later .  " Think for a minute what happened with the Toronto Blue Jays , " says Gord Hendren , founder of Charlton Strategic Research Inc. , referring to the baseball team 's run to the American League Championship Series last fall . " Those ratings went through the roof and they captured millennials . They might watch it on the Internet , they might watch it on their phone , they might consume it on social media . But if the content is compelling -- and the Blue Jays are a great example -- the as the result of a survey his market research firm conducted last September . In a survey of 500 sports fans aged 12 to 70 across Canada , the largest group of those who described themselves as " big fans " of the Blue Jays -- 54 per cent -- were millennials and younger .  Many of these fans would have little to no memory of the Blue Jays ' World Series runs in 1992 and 1993 , so it is an encouraging sign for both broadcasters and sports teams -- laggards , such as the Edmonton Oilers and Toronto Maple Leafs , can count on their fans being there when they finally get back into contention .  But that is small consolation for Rogers , which has to find a way to break even on its 12-year , $5.2-billion deal with the NHL for the Canadian broadcast rights . The bad news is that , since the Leafs have the largest fan base of the seven Canadian NHL teams , their plummeting TV ratings over the past two seasons have caused much pain for Rogers . Worse still and advertising-revenue bonanza , the media company is facing the prospect of a playoff season without a single Canadian franchise . That is devastating to its budget projections and reportedly is already having an effect on staffing levels .  Kaan Yigit , president of Solutions Research Group in Toronto , says the NHL has gained consumers who have started to follow the league on digital and social media in recent years . But the communications and technology consultant adds that the gains did not offset the losses of conventional TV viewers . By December of 2015 , an SRG survey of 500 Canadians showed , the number of Canadians aged 12 and above who consume the NHL on digital and social media increased 9 per cent , but in the same period , the number watching on television dropped 22 per cent . Over all , there was an 11-per-cent decline in Canadians who watch the NHL on any platform .  But the NHL remains the No. 1 sport to watch among Canadians ; the SRG survey showed 50 per cent of the respondents said they follow the league second , with 36 per cent .  As for millennials , an SRG survey in December , 2014 , found 33 per cent watch hockey online , on mobile devices or on social media ; 31 per cent still watch games on TV .  The NHL broadcast contract is structured so that Rogers paid the smallest annual amount in 2014-15 , the first season of the deal . The payments will rise each year over the next 11 seasons . Hendren thinks Rogers has a chance to turn a profit on the deal for two reasons . First , he says , " two-thirds of Canadians still watch conventional television , " which means there will still be sizable TV audiences to sell to advertisers . The other is that millennials are still willing to watch games in the conventional way if they have a good reason , such as their teams ' playoff runs .  Jays audiences on Sportsnet , for instance , went from an average of 600,000 per regular-season game in July to 1.61 million during the September stretch drive . The playoffs saw the game in the American League Championship Series , which Toronto lost to the Kansas City Royals , pulling in 5.13 million viewers , a record for Sportsnet .  Hendren thinks the same dynamic will benefit Rogers if Canadian NHL teams become more competitive . " If you get the content right , the potential for sports is big , " he says , adding : " If the Leafs get contending again , they would exceed all numbers . "  A more cautious opinion comes from Mario Mota , co-founder of Boon Dog Professional Services Inc. , a research and consulting company in Ottawa . He thinks the numbers of cord-cutters ( those who drop their cable or satellite TV subscriptions ) and cord-nevers ( millennials who do n't subscribe once they live on their own ) will continue to grow because , critics say , the telecom companies are passing on the rising costs of sports rights to consumers ' monthly bills .  " If the costs of sports packages continue to rise the way they have been , at some point there is a limit for  He does not see the solution in the recent arrival of skinny bundles , which the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission forced on the cable companies . The problem is that the most popular sports networks , Sportsnet and TSN , are not part of the new stripped-down packages , which cost about $25 a month plus the cost of renting a cable box . The total cost of a package that includes both Sportsnet and TSN is more than $70 per month .  " If you 're paying more every year in rights fees and it 's increasingly a challenge to earn more and more advertising revenue , and there are people cutting the cord and cord-shaving , meaning your subscriber numbers are going down , it does n't take a rocket scientist to say that 's going to be a challenging environment for any sports broadcaster , " Mota says .  Between 2010 and 2014 , according to the most recent figures published by the CRTC , Sportsnet lost about 840,000 subscribers , a decline of 9 per cent to 8.3 million . TSN 's decline same period to nine million . But the CRTC has not yet published the 2015 numbers , which may show an increase for Sportsnet because it included its first season with the NHL rights .  Despite the loss of subscribers , TSN and Sportsnet saw a sharp increase in revenue between 2010 and 2014 because both networks negotiated an increase in the fees they receive from cable operators that carry them . There was also increased revenue from existing subscribers , because both networks added new pay channels . TSN 's revenue climbed to $452.2-million in 2014 from $267.6-million in 2010 ( before the loss of NHL national rights to Rogers kicked in ) . Sportsnet pulled in $311.9-million in 2014 , up from $216.9-million in 2010 .  Despite this , both Rogers and Bell said in their last annual reports that the rising costs of sports rights deals held down profit . The companies attributed the hundreds of layoffs at Bell Media and Rogers Media in the past several months to the decline in revenue due caused by cord-cutting .  Are the broadcasters complaints about rights fees figure out how to sell digital ads and subscriptions to generate new revenue ?  Mota says that , while Bell and Rogers complain about soaring fees , they are unlikely to stop bidding up the prices . " In Canada , you have healthy competition between Bell and Rogers for rights . You can bet when any kind of rights come up for renewal , they 'll be tripping over themselves to outbid each other .  " There 's kind of an irrationality in the market because of this environment . Plus , they need content . TSN has now expanded to five feeds , Sportsnet has four or five , and they 've got to fill that air time .  " The question becomes : As publicly-traded companies , how long can they keep going , making deals like that and not making the returns their shareholders require and demand , before saying there has to be a better way to do this ? "  A traditional broadcast deal calls for the network to pay a sports league an annual fee . Then , it turns to its cable channels . Hendren and Mota say that future broadcast deals will be driven by subscription revenue more than ad revenue . The companies will concentrate more on selling wireless and digital subscriptions for mobile devices and streaming packages .  Bill Kunz , a veteran U.S. network television producer and an associate professor of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences at the University of Washington , studies broadcast issues . He thinks there will be a shift to a subscription-based approach .  " They talk so much about cord-cutting , but the one thing that limits that is live sports , " Kunz says . " What 's keeping some of these services , cable and satellite in the U.S. , afloat is live content . But , yes , the delivery model is likely to change . The broadcasters will figure out a different way to monetize it . But I do n't know that the amount will be radically different . "  While networks have so far failed to fully monetize digital and mobile platforms , Kunz says the U.S. national broadcast contracts with the NFL five more years to run , " so there is time enough to figure it out . "  Mota , though , thinks Rogers is facing significant risk because of this , as its contract with the NHL does not expire until 2026 . " In an environment where television is changing so rapidly , who can predict in 12 years what the world is going to look like ? "  But Hendren believes the saving grace for Rogers will be the fact that , unlike most of the U.S. networks ' deals , it has locked up all media rights , including television , radio , mobile and digital . So if the monetization progresses , the money will flow to Rogers .  Analysts are dubious of the peak-sports theory .  " Is it the end of media companies paying billions ? I do n't think it is the end , " Hendren says . " I think it has big value for them . No. 1 , it 's content that 's driven across their multiple platforms . No. 2 , in terms of creating of a particular service if you have particular features or particular content you can push . That leads to subscription revenue in a world we 're moving to , which is pick and pay . "  What 's happening in the United States now suggests Rogers ' move to tie up all NHL rights may be the right one . Yahoo -- rather than the NHL 's U.S. television partner , NBC -- recently signed a deal with the league to live-stream four games a week for free , along with highlights and other content ( the games will not be seen in Canada thanks to the Rogers contract ) .  Yahoo Inc. is making strong moves to woo mobile-watching millennials , as the company already has streaming deals with the NFL , MLB and the PGA . And social-media giant Facebook is live-streaming professional boxing .  Rogers is promising to do much the same here . " It 's our job , though , " Rogers chief executive officer Guy Laurence noted in an interview with The Globe and Mail in May of 2015 , " to and then work out how to monetize it , not force the public to watch content in a particular way because that 's how we 've monetized it in the past . "