Peter MacKay remains open to Conservative leadership bid
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/peter-mackay-remains-open-to-conservative-leadership-bid/article29302456/

for peter mackay , the next conservative party leader does n't necessarily need to be a political outsider .  but he or she has to be a " very substantive and serious " person who brings life experience and thoughtful policies to the party , says the former cabinet minister , who is leaving the door open to running himself .  " it looks better to have that kind of heft , as opposed to reality-tv , kardashian-style of politics , " mr. mackay said in an interview with the globe and mail .  and is a " substantive " person in direct contrast to prime minister justin trudeau ?  " people will have to come to their own conclusions about that , " he said .  the federal conservatives are set to pick their new leader in may , 2017 , as part of the fallout from their election loss in october and stephen harper 's resignation .  the nova scotia-born mr. mackay , who did n't run in the last election , is seen as a popular choice among front-runner in leadership polls .  although no formal announcements have been made , other potential leadership contenders include conservative mps kellie leitch , jason kenney and maxime bernier , and even kevin o'leary of tv 's shark tank -- although the latter also said he 'd consider a run for the liberals .  now a partner in the toronto office of u.s.-based global law firm baker &amp; mckenzie , mr. mackay takes the subway to work and says he is " quite happy " with his new life outside of politics , focusing more on his young family with wife nazanin afshin-jam .  " but am i pining away , thinking about it and organizing and getting an apparatus in place ? uh , no . i 've done that before , " he said , referring to his run for the progressive conservative leadership in 2003 before it merged with mr. harper 's canadian alliance to form the modern conservative party of canada .  " it 's a tremendous commitment . "  these days , mr. mackay refers to himself as another type of pc why he does n't just say no to a leadership run , mr. mackay answered : " i 'm still interested and engaged in a lot of issues that i care about , and politics is a vehicle to bring about change . it sounds trite , but it 's true . "  although he has n't been to ottawa since the election , mr. mackay has been following politics . he says he is concerned with the swift changes mr. trudeau 's government is making .  he accused the liberals of " spending a disproportionate amount of time undoing the things that we did . "  he mentioned liberal pledges such as the return of the long-form census , rolling back old age security eligibility to 65 , reviewing the temporary foreign workers program and changing canada 's child benefit payments .  he pointed to the canadian forces ' 10-year involvement in afghanistan as an accomplishment under the conservative government that is now being pushed aside by mr. trudeau . canada was not absent on the world stage during the conservative rule , he said . kind of statement . it suggests somehow that only liberals are canadian , " mr. mackay said .  " it comes across very much as , ' we 're entitled . we 're supposed to be the governing party . ' "  but mr. mackay acknowledges that mr. trudeau 's " positive message " resonated during the election campaign -- and has been taken up by conservative interim leader rona ambrose .  " she 's hit the right note on a lot of the issues , " he said .  during his 18 years in office , mr. mackay served as minister of foreign affairs , defence and justice . it was a career that came with its share of controversies , both personal and professional : he faced intense criticism for taking a military helicopter from a private fishing trip in newfoundland to a news conference on the government 's dime ; he also had a failed public romance with former conservative mp and floor-crosser belinda stronach .  he also repeatedly made the political hill times newspaper 's list of " sexiest male mps " .  " it 's sort of like being picked best-looking in a leper colony , " he said , dryly .  in his last post as justice minister , mr. mackay , a former crown prosecutor who speaks often on the rights of victims , publicly clashed with the judiciary on a number of occasions .  mr. mackay said some judges " castigated " conservative laws , including a refusal to implement the mandatory victims surcharge , a fine for offenders .  " we still have judges that are bristling -- those filthy , democratically elected people telling us what to do . it 's rather shocking when you think about it , " mr. mackay said .  " i 'm startled that there was such push-back . "  but he denies being behind some of the more contentious conservative laws , such as a ban on face coverings at citizenship ceremonies . " i was n't the engineer , let 's say , of things like niqab legislation , " he said .  topics :  next story  learn more  discover not have come across . here we 'll provide you with fresh suggestions where we will continue to make even better ones as we get to know you better .  you can let us know if a suggestion is not to your liking by hitting the ' ' close button to the right of the headline .