Alberta discards timeline for balanced budget
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/albertas-finance-minister-discards-timeline-for-balanced-budget/article29374634/

alberta premier rachel notley , centre , speaks with small business owners and non-profit businesses during a prebudget meeting attends a prebudget meeting at the alberta school of business in edmonton on wednesday . ( jason franson/the canadian press )  alberta premier rachel notley , centre , speaks with small business owners and non-profit businesses during a prebudget meeting attends a prebudget meeting at the alberta school of business in edmonton on wednesday . ( jason franson/the canadian press )  alberta 's finance minister says he has no idea when the province 's budget will be balanced , months after promising the deficit would be eliminated before the end of the decade .  the governing new democrats will post deficits for an indeterminate period as revenues languish because of the crash in oil prices and as the public need for services grows , joe ceci said in an interview with the globe and mail .  there is no longer a hard-and-fast target date for balance , he said .  " it 's just wishful thinking if you think you can identify that pin in a timeline and say this is when we 're going to return to balance that it would mean some drastic cuts across the board in this province . "  mr. ceci has said his 2016-17 budget , set for april 14 , will include a shortfall of $10.4-billion , alberta 's largest since the early 1990s . in an interim budget last october , the government set a target of 2019 to get back into the black .  the ndp is promising to protect health care , education and other services . the energy-market collapse has prompted tens of thousands of job cuts in the oil patch , putting more pressure on the government to maintain basic services .  the deficit disclosure comes one day after federal finance minister bill morneau tabled his first budget , backing away from an election pledge to balance the books by 2019 and offering no new target to do so . he projected a $29.4-billion deficit in 2016-17 , triple what the justin trudeau liberals promised in the election .  the federal deficit is projected to fall to $17.4-billion .  like alberta , the federal government is trying to deal with a weak economy , caused partly by skidding oil prices . both levels of government have pledged multibillion-dollar infrastructure programs as stimulus . mr. ceci has laid out a plan to spend $34.5-billion over five years on bridges , roads , schools and hospitals , funded by debt .  " there 's a lot of mirroring of circumstances going on here , " mr. ceci said of his budget and the one tabled by mr. morneau . " and i just feel that 's the reality we 're in as governments right now and we need to have a long-term vision on how to get back to some sense of balance .  " we 're going to carry a $10.4-billion deficit this year . there 'll be another deficit the year after that , and not unlike morneau , we 're going to have to look in the long term to sort this out . "  alberta 's governments have struggled to balance the books over the past decade , even when oil was above 's level of around $40 . since the financial crisis in 2008 , a number of progressive conservative premiers returned only one balanced budget , a $1.1-billion ( canadian ) surplus in 2014-15 .  after campaigning on a promise to shield albertans from drastic cuts to services , premier rachel notley boosted social spending while raising both corporate taxes and income taxes for those making more than $125,000 a year .  the ndp 's 2015 election platform included a pledge to balance the province 's budget by 2018 . after months of persistently weak oil prices , october 's budget pushed that target to 2019 .  mr. ceci ruled out any further revenue increases , such as a sales tax or higher income taxes , but he said his budget will not weaken health and education services . it 's a sharp philosophical contrast to former premier ralph klein 's pc government in the 1990s , which cut deeply to balance the books .  " albertans need to know that those are all solid things that they can continue to count on , " he said . explain his spending plan to investors and bond-rating agencies , which have already raised red flags about rising debt levels . before alberta 's next general election , set for 2019 , the province will begin borrowing money to finance the day-to-day operations of government -- something it has n't done since 1994 . mr. ceci will need to persuade creditors that the province is a solid investment .  " we have to lay out a plan that is reasonable , responsible , and stick to it , " he said . " we 've got the lowest , or one of the lowest debt-to-gdp ratios in canada -- we 're good . it 's going to go up and there is no way around it , but if we can deliver on our plans , i think we 'll be all right . "  also on the globe and mail  alberta needs ottawa 's help , but what about the rest of the country ? ( bnn video )