Flight attendant who ditched heels, fled LAX security nabbed
http://www.cfjctoday.com/article/518282/flight-attendant-who-ditched-heels-fled-lax-security-nabbed

?  search  flight attendant who ditched heels , fled lax security nabbed  march 23 , 2016 - 8:13pm  los angeles -- a jetblue flight attendant who authorities say left behind 70 pounds ( 32 kilograms ) of cocaine worth up to $3 million after flinging off her heels and running from security at los angeles international airport was arrested wednesday in new york .  marsha gay reynolds surrendered to federal authorities at john f. kennedy international airport , though it was n't immediately clear how she reached new york , federal officials said .  reynolds was expected to be in federal court in brooklyn on thursday , according to u.s. attorney 's spokesman thom mrozek .  transportation security administration officials asked reynolds to step aside for a random security screening friday , authorities said . reynolds went to a secondary screening area but quickly dropped her bag , ditched a pair of gucci heels and fled barefoot downward on an upward-moving escalator , marshall mcclain , president of the union representing lax airport police officers , said monday .  . it was unclear if she yet had an attorney .  mrozek said prosecutors believe reports that reynolds was a runner-up in miss jamaica world 2008 . new york university lists a marsha-gay reynolds as having been on the school 's 2004 women 's track and field team , though it was n't immediately clear if that was the same reynolds arrested wednesday .  on friday , reynolds arrived at an lax checkpoint in terminal 4 wearing jeans , heels and a black suit jacket , carrying her " known crew member badge , " according to an fbi affidavit in support of the charge against reynolds . it was n't immediately clear whether she was on duty at the time .  when reynolds was chosen for a random security screening , tsa officer jamie samuel said the flight attendant became nervous and began looking around before pulling out her cellphone and making a call , according to the affidavit .  samuel reported that reynolds was talking on the phone in a foreign language as she was being taken to a secondary screening area , the affidavit tsa officer charles james asked for her identification .  " at this time , reynolds dropped her carry-on luggage , removed her shoes and began to run away , " according to the affidavit .  james saw reynolds run down an upward-moving escalator and out of the terminal , the affidavit says , adding that the officer did n't pursue her because her abandoned luggage was his main concern .  lax police soon after found 11 packages of cocaine wrapped in green cellophane and labeled , " big ranch " inside one of the bags reynolds had left behind , the affidavit says .  the cocaine weighed just over 68 pounds . wholesale , the drugs would be worth about $750,000 in los angeles , said special agent timothy massino , a spokesman for the u.s. drug enforcement administration .  on the streets of los angeles , massino said the retail value of the cocaine could be as high as $3 million .  security threats from " insiders , " including airline and airport employees and workers hired by contractors , have been a focus of several delta air lines baggage handlers . prosecutors allege they smuggled guns , including an ak-47 , from atlanta to new york .  the tsa has said that full screening of all employees would cost too much . instead , the agency has urged airports to increase random screenings of workers and to keep background checks up to date .  join the discussion  we are happy to provide a forum for commenting and discussion . please respect and abide by the house rules : keep it clean , keep it civil , keep it truthful , stay on topic , be responsible , share your knowledge , and please suggest removal of comments that violate these standards . see full commenting rules .