Afrofest back as two-day event after reprieve from city
http://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2016/03/23/afrofest-a-two-day-event-again-after-deal-with-city.html

statement released by music africa , city of toronto confirms event will once again run for two days .  umurisho , a burundian drum band , performed at afrofest in woodbine park on sunday in 2014 . the event has been running for decades but a recent decision to cut it back to a single day upset event organizers and fans .  after facing a cutback to a single day , afrofest will again hold two days of concerts in woodbine park this year , according to a statement by the event 's organizers and the city of toronto released on wednesday evening .  the announcement comes after bickering between music africa -- the organization who puts on toronto 's summer festival of traditional african music -- and the city of toronto about noise violations and extended show times in previous years . usually , the festival runs for two days in july -- but the city briefly clawed them back to one this year .  " afrofest organizers acknowledge that there were some permit violations related to past years of the festival end times , " read the statement signed by councilor mary-margaret mcmahon of ward 32 , music africa president peter toh , and director richard ubbens of the city 's parks , forestry and recreation department .  toh praised councillor mcmahon for her efforts in negotiating an agreement between music africa and the city .  " the councilor was very co-operative . she really understood our point of view , " said toh in an interview with cp24 wednesday evening . toh did not immediately respond to requests for comment from the star .  it 's currently unclear whether the dispute has impacted afrofest 's planning and scheduling this year , or what exactly the agreement between both sides constitutes . toronto music advisory council co-chair andreas kalogiannides , who sat in on wednesday 's meeting , said that the agreement is going to be a return to the festival 's status quo .  " from where i was sitting , the agreement was just the two-day permit is going to be reinstated , and then afrofest . . . is going to comply with the regular to a two-day schedule was one of the demands being made by black lives matter-toronto . the group has been encamped at toronto police headquarters for the past several days , mainly to demand action over the death of andrew loku at the hands of police officers in july 2015 .  wednesday 's release goes on to say that the toronto music advisory council will be assisting afrofest and other music events across the city . kalogiannides said that he 'd spoken last week with toh and offered to connect afrofest with organizers with his organization .  " peter ( toh ) said they 'd be reaching out , because this is the kind of networking and capacity building that they 're looking to do on their own , " kalogiannides said .  perceived permit violations have been a recurring issue between afrofest and the city . back in 2011 , when afrofest was still playing at queen 's park north , the fest was initially denied an event permit by the city of toronto along with the freedom festival because of the size of their audiences . up that year .