Tickets on sale for the annual Kampai Toronto Festival of Sake at ...
http://www.insidetoronto.com/news-story/6498564-tickets-on-sale-for-the-annual-kampai-toronto-festival-of-sake-at-toronto-s-distillery-district/

the sake institute of ontario ( sio ) presents the fifth annual kampai toronto festival of sake , or japanese rice wine , friday , june 3 at the fermenting cellar in the historic distillery district .  kampai toronto , the largest sake tasting event in canada , is a cultural , food and sake festival showcasing sake from more than 40 breweries from around the world and featuring more than 150 sakes with many brewers flying in from japan specifically for the event .  the festival also showcases a selection of tasting items from toronto 's top local japanese and contemporary restaurant partners : miku toronto , ki modern japanese , kinka group , kingyo izakaya , nome izakaya , ginko , ryoji , zakkushi yakitori , and don don izakaya , all available with the purchase of tasting tickets .  the daytime festival , open to restaurateurs , trade , and media , includes a seminar sponsored by the japan external trade organization ( jetro toronto ) and led by internationally renowned john gauntner , recognized as the world 's leading non-japanese cuisine , followed by a sake tasting .  the evening sake festival is open to the public offering a selection of sake and food available with the purchase of tasting tickets .  also new this year , the sio will be offering two master class sessions open to the public for those looking to learn more about sake from canada 's growing network of certified sake specialists .  regular admission will be similar to past years with an early-bird tasting package for $75 , and $80 after may 6 .  a new introductory tasting package with fewer tasting tickets will be available for $45 to invite those new to sake to give it a try , and a $100 premium tasting package with early entrance , which includes six premium sake tasting tickets .  the premium tasting tickets can be redeemed for special , limited reserve sake at each booth .