Lowe's Names Hub Group Intermodal Carrier of the Year and ...
http://www.stockhouse.com/news/press-releases/2016/04/15/lowe-s-names-hub-group-intermodal-carrier-of-the-year-and-platinum-service

oak brook , ill. , april 15 , 2016 /prnewswire/ -- hub group ( nasdaq : hubg ) announced today that it has received the intermodal carrier of the year and the platinum service award honors from lowe 's companies , inc . ( nyse : low ) for the fifth and sixth year in a row , respectively . a fortune ? 50 home improvement company , lowe 's serves approximately 16 million customers a week in the united states , canada and mexico .  " it 's hard to express how proud we are to have such an outstanding relationship with a distinguished organization like lowe 's , " said david p. yeager , chairman and ceo of hub group . " we are again humbled to be recognized for our service and expertise , and more determined than ever to keep the streak going in 2017 and beyond . "  to attain lowe 's platinum service award , the highest service award lowe 's presents to its transportation providers , companies must achieve a total score of at least 99 percent on edi compliance and load acceptance . hub group was the only intermodal carrier honored in 2016 . while noteworthy , hub group 's accomplishment was far from unique , as lowe 's has named hub group a platinum service award winner every year that the company has been eligible .  in addition to company honors , industry professionals from more than 100 carriers in attendance at the lowe 's awards ceremony competed for four outstanding customer service awards . hub group 's account manager andrew greenaway was named a winner for the second year in a row , becoming the only person to receive this prestigious award twice .  about hub group  hub group is a transportation management company that provides multi-modal solutions throughout north america , including intermodal , truck brokerage and logistics services . as a publicly traded company with over $3.5 billion in revenue , hub group 's organization of over 2,500 employees delivers innovative , customer-focused solutions and industry leading service to help customers better control supply chains and their costs . for more information , visit www.hubgroup.com.