Resin.io Teams Up With Samsung to Deliver Benefits of DevOps ...
http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/resinio-teams-up-with-samsung-deliver-benefits-devops-management-samsung-artik-platform-2119058.htm

resin.io teams up with samsung to deliver benefits of devops management to the samsung artik ? platform  san francisco , ca-- ( marketwired - apr 27 , 2016 ) - ( samsung developer conference ) -- resin.io , provider of a modern devops management platform for connected devices , today announced that it has teamed up with samsung to make it easier for developers to build , deploy and manage software for the iot using open emerging standards such as docker and git . this collaboration is designed to help provide developers and device fleet owners with everything they need to build and scale their iot projects . with resin.io and the samsung artik ? platform , developers benefit from the ability to develop with fast feedback , deploy software iteratively to production-class modules and collect and analyze data from within an iot environment .  as part of the collaboration , resin.io will integrate its management platform with the samsung artik ? cloud , an open data exchange platform that collects and standardizes machine and sensor data from remote environments . resin.io ceo and co-founder resin.io 's management platform capabilities during the opening keynote session at the samsung developer conference at 9:15 a.m . pt on april 27 at moscone center in san francisco .  " resin.io has built a highly robust and elegant management platform that solves a real problem for companies struggling to deploy and manage iot software with both speed and security , " said curtis sasaki , vice president of ecosystems , samsung electronics . " through this collaboration , software developers will have an easier experience building , deploying and managing a wide range of iot applications , whether it 's an early hackathon project or a complex deployment to a fleet of thousands of iot devices . "  " samsung is a driving force behind making the promise of the iot a reality for consumers and businesses alike . as more devices become connected devices , the ability to seamlessly push live updates over-the-air becomes a critical business requirement , " said alexandros marinos , founder &amp; ceo of resin.io . " we are confident that developers will love both the agility and the control that resin.io brings samsung artik modules and its integration with the samsung artik cloud are available today as open source code . developers also have access to resin.io 's device fleet management capabilities , including simple provisioning , device-specific configurations , build logs , phased deployments and device status dashboards .  a collection of resources including tutorials , a getting started guide , and videos of the integration can be found at : http : //www.resin.io/artik  more information about samsung artik , partners and development tools can be found at artik.io .  about resin.io  resin.io brings modern devops tools and practices to the internet of things . resin.io 's software deployment and management platform makes it simple to deploy , update , and maintain code running on linux-based connected devices regardless of their location . with resin.io , businesses and developers can jumpstart their iot projects and applications quickly , slashing development time , cost and management overhead . resin.io has offices in seattle , washington , london , england and athens , greece . for more information go to https : //resin.io