What Science Says about how wildfires work
http://www.metronews.ca/views/science-says/2016/05/05/what-sciencesays-about-how-wildfires-work.html

What Science Says about how wildfires work  The fire in Fort McMurray is " about as explosive as you can get . " Here 's why .  Forest fires happen every year , and a bit of burning is important for a healthy ecosytem . But this season is different -- and not just because the city of Fort McMurray is in the path of destruction . In the words of Jen Beverly , who teaches fire science and management at the University of Alberta , this conflagration is " about as explosive as you can get . " Here 's why .  HEAT  Spring came a full month early in Alberta , thanks in part to the global warm phase El Ni ? o . Temps have been 2 to 4 C above normal . Fort McMurray topped 31 C Wednesday . Northern Alberta also got 75 per cent less rain and snow than expected in recent months , and the snow melted sooner -- leaving the forest warm , dry , and highly flammable .  WIND  Wind propels fires . If you 've ever put your face near an open oven door , you know heat rises . That upward motion carries burning embers high into the air , where the wind can toss them horizontally by up to a kilometre . That 's how the blaze , helped by winds gusting to 50 km/h , hopped over a river . Huge fires also make their own winds : fire whorls .  FUEL  Fort McMurray is in Canada 's vast boreal forest , which is mostly ( combustible ! ) evergreen trees . Trees with juicy green leaves , on the other hand , are a natural fire retardant . But there 's a window -- it opened very early this year -- in the spring , after the snow melts and before leaves bloom , when the forest floor is full of dry leaves and needles : fire food .  CAN THIS FIRE BE FOUGHT ?  Firefighters measure the energy of a fire in kilowatts per metre of fire front : The part where flames meet fresh forest . In a fire this intense ( people anywhere near , " the front , scientist Jen Beverly says . That leaves indirect methods , like using planes to drop water and fire retardant . Except : The tops of the trees are on fire , and it 's hard for pilots to see through the smoke . Controlled burns or bulldozers can remove some fuel in the fire 's path -- but that 's not always safe in populated areas . Until there 's a good long rain , " there 's not much we can do , " Beverly says . " These are the most extreme burning conditions you can see . "