Quick Reaction: Heat 92, Raptors 96 - Series tied 1-1
http://www.raptorsrepublic.com/2016/05/05/quick-reaction-heat-92-96-raptors/

quick reaction : heat 92 , raptors 96 -- series tied 1-1  toronto , on - may 05 : goran dragic #7 of the miami heat appeals to the official after being hit in the face by demar derozan #10 of the toronto raptors in the first half of game two of the eastern conference semifinals during the 2016 nba playoffs at the air canada centre on may 5 , 2016 in toronto , ontario , canada . note to user : user expressly acknowledges and agrees that , by downloading and or using this photograph , user is consenting to the terms and conditions of the getty images license agreement . ( photo by vaughn ridley/getty images )  apart from a bizarre contested 3 on an isolation with 20 on the clock to start the game , his offense flowed beautifully . tonight 's carroll on the offensive end was the atlanta hawk version of carroll -- hitting threes , making the extra pass , and even getting to the rim with hesitation dribbles .  oddly enough , as efficient as he was and he could n't keep anyone in front of him .  of course , i have to add this : hedging off of dragic at the end of the fourth was suicide , and there 's nothing to justify it . luckily , his defense on joe johnson in ot made-up for his brain fart , and the raptors came away with the w.  he improved from game one , but still a ways away from being what the raptors need him to be .  it seemed like he took dmc 's advice last night to ' look at himself in the mirror ' -- getting off to an aggressive start offensively , but then cooled off significantly before making a couple clutch plays in the fourth .  his grade has to be higher than demar 's despite the poor shooting based on what else he brings to the table -- ball movement , penetration , good shot-selection .  inserting cojo for powell was more than fine , but bringing in an ice cold james johnson in a space-suffocating lineup when patrick patterson was on the five minutes on the floor .  once again , does nothing to intervene on these derozan jumpers that stagnate the offense . meanwhile , valanciunas -- the most efficient scorer on the team -- had no touches to compensate for the lowry / derozan woes .  and finally , that ' play call ' for lowry fadeaway three-point heave at the fourth-quarter buzzer was embarrassing . how do you draw that up , and more importantly , how do you -- at the very least -- not allow enough time for an offensive rebound ?  that second half was brutal . for the longest time it seemed like kyle and demar were doing everything they could to give miami the win . i started feeling bad for the rest of team , who were actually playing quite well .  charanvir  that was weird  mr.obvious  jv saved the raptor 's season .  bill  demar did his best to make us lose .  debaddd  why he ignores jv so much in favour of his 30% shooting percentage is absolutely befuddling .  a post pass . i have never seen him make one . jv would be posting for ages , but dd would want a screen .  rtzyyz  it 's not that he ca n't ... he does n't see it ... it does n't even occur to him to look for it . tunnle vision .  truth teller  he must be legally blind then .  also we thought rudy gay was bad , but at least gay shows up in crunch time .  raptorstand  if they have to double jv , dd gets open ..... jesus christ i 'm a guy that sits on the fucking couch watching this bull shit and even i can figure that out .  mr.obvious  i think demar hates jv . he wants to be the man and win the entire game for himself , imo .  bill  i do n't think he hates him i feel like his ego forces him to be a chucker instead of making the right play  ugh . the demar derozan show . i kept thing " demar " i love demar but he has to change or this team is going nowhere . not this year not any year .  raptorstand  what keeps going through my mind is what is the line ? it feels so much like a fix . i have watched way to much sports to be naive about gambling . i wish i did n't think like that but i cant deny that 's what it feels like .  straight up i thought he already did that in g2 of first round .. if he does n't show up in that game ( and g1/g3 ) does vogel adjust the over-coverage on kl/dd drives ?  dunkenstein  jv was awesome .  adrianm  agreed but please give respect to cory 's defence  jv owns whiteside  rambo  we are so shit  mr.obvious  yet we won ... weird team .  rambo  ye do n't get me wrong love it , but its so painful  mr.obvious  i feel you . its so stressful being a raptors ' fan .  rambo  the mr.obvious  agreed .  rtzyyz  no ... then offense with derozen is the worst in the league  rambo  how can u not see that this is what casey runs its that simple .  raptorsbasketball  you ca n't deny that 4th quarter effort .  rambo  ye the effort and heart is there but that offence crickey .  ken bou  caroll lost the game in reg for us ? he was daydreaming ? ? ? dreaminh ? ? ? ? why go triple the guy n left dragic wide open ? ? ? ? ?  holdthisl  correction : derozan and lowry are shit  powell ranger  ive been hard on jv , but he 's been the best player on the floor . we need to run more plays for him .  n8  welcome to the dark side brother aha !  powell ranger  he clearly has an advantage on hw and his d has improved . with the guards shooting so bad , no excuse not to get him more looks .  n8  no him in game 3 , give him more shots and make whiteside work .  rambo  most importantly his d is so much better  troy  i believe u and i have discussed this at length many many times  powell ranger  we have . pacers adjusted and shut him down last series , but we should exploit it as much as possible while it 's working .  imho tep  pacers adjusted because our guards are shitty passers playing in a shitty system with no ball movement . there are 1000 ways to get the ball inside and punish or beat double teams , but our coach only knows 1 and our guards are not used to it and they are quite awful at feeding the big man inside or on the move for that matter .  they are too busy pounding the rock and snaking the p&amp;r to brick long jumpers .  whiteside is not an antidote to jv , neither is mahini . you shoud use jv to score and then use him as a decoy , and go back and forth our playbook is litterally a mcdonalds napkin , so i do n't know if there is room for too much action .  raptorstand  i think some people deserve an apology .......... just sayin bitches .  powell ranger  why ? jv has issues but he 's clearly got an advantage in this game . i 've been very fair with jonas , some people tend to over rate him , i still think that . but he 's clearly showed up these two games . got to go with what works .  raptorstand  you havnt been fair with jv , you have ran him down all over this board , your so full of shit .  sinbad  dude wanted to run him out of town in favour of biyombo all season long . fair my ass .  raptorstand  fucking guy trying to back away from his statements , what a load .  sinbad  " i 've been very fair with jonas ... "  no . no you have n't . nice try . but seriously , those of us hunt for their shots over all else would backfire in the playoffs saw this coming from a mile away . how hard is it to make a swing pass ? a dump off ? its unfathomable incompetence by two players that are supposed to be our leaders . and casey ... well , the script on his " system " writes itself .  feather ruffler  the funny thing is that jv has been the best player in every playoff series thus far . brooklyn , washington , indiana and so far against the heat . consistency makes great players and this kid is special .  jack  we have the brick brothers ! ! !  jack  33.1 fg% + 16.7 3p% for one 30.6 fg% + 16.0 3p% for the other  does n't matter who 's who at this point  imho tep  omfg omfg ... this is unreal , i think our backcourts will break some historic record by the time this is over .  jack  i watch the games on league pass and the tnt crew keeps mentioning that lowry the playoffs , minimum 100 shots  imho tep  he was #4 during the indiana series . just when you think it could not get worse .  it did .  bill  jv went 7-9 while our allstars built brick mansions .  imho tep  lmao .... brick mansions .  these guys are putting legit house builders out of business . ( watch out minto )  great win when things did not look good , jv saved this team tonight and was the best player for either team late in the 4th and ot . was good too see ross be aggressive and lowry hit some key shots .  steve alex  demar has not hit one end of quarter shot this series . not once !  yodha  correction -- this season .  steve alex  well i just started keeping track of it this series ? ?  rambo  im exhausted just watching it . imagine the players yet they got another 3 games at least  nic0las  good thing the heat are old  ken bou  very atheletic  nic0las  first thing just post up jv till they double em  holdthisl  derozan fanboys nowhere to be found ahahaha  rambo  whats to say we still won , he was poor after the 1st quarter but so was the rest of team except jv and ross .  holdthisl  carroll was good on offense. derozan did absolutely nothing  rambo  to be fair carroll was decent  rtzyyz  hopefully they leave in free agency too  raptorstand  the wife says i turned full tourette 's in the fourth quarter . do n't remember much , i was cussing so much i stopped breathing for a bit .  mackatttack  if i have to watch 5 more years of difficult long-two pointers from derozan i might go insane . he needs to shoot more threes or go to the rim ; the in-between game is dying for a reason .  we need jj out there , especially defensively . he gives carroll a breather and the heat a different look with his versatility . plus , i 'd rather ...  game 3 gameplan : get jonas more touches , no excuses .  ken bou  amen  justsayin  just turn off the tv in the 3rd quarter . that 's demar 's long 2 practice session time . coinciding with when the other team goes on a major run .  the defense though , he did an amazing job on wade , yeah he scored but everything was a contested long two  mexiballer  yup . his defence was excellent as well . he looks locked and focused on the task in front of him the whole time he 's out there .  fly fresh  jv deserves a higher grade , straight goods ! !  mexiballer  this team causes their fans unnecessary stress .  gerald  having trouble with kiyan 's take on jj . i thought he shut down joe johnson . i thought he had pretty good defence and did n't try to do too much . d- was a little cold .  n8  he stopped his momentum for sure . 11 straight points then three was a horse tonight in the 4th and ot and we won , which counts the most .  gerald  truly , i 'm just not sure what kiyans issue with jj is . he was solid and +2 .  raptorfan07  i was so happy when i saw jj come into the game , he is 6 ' 9 and 250lbs and the only guy who has the size and quickness to slow joe johnson .  mexiballer  thats exactly why they brought him in . joe johnson was killing . he 's the only big body we have to slow johnson down . we 'll probably see him again . there was nothing weird about it at all .  gerald  agreed ... not sure why he only got a d-  mexiballer  yeah ... i voted that d- down . jj totally threw water on the fire that joe johnson was becoming . excellent move to bring him in . he did his job .  raptorfan07  i hope casey uses jj more in game three , jj can also give us .  gerald  absolutely ... the power eurostep must make it 's playoff debut !  ken bou  he n powell need utilization  holdthisl  james johnson d- derozan c- ? veryyyy stupid  rambo  lol @ leo and matt saying lowry back after his first attempt from 3 which he made then went ice cold . just remembered that was quite funny  james slim  valanciunas has come of age this playoffs  simon ho fung cheng  the offensive rebound by jv in the late 4th quarter is probably the most important rebound of the season !  haris  jv had his hands on another dozen offensive rebounds or got fouled going for the offensive board . absolute monster today in spite of criminal neglect by our two chuckers .  truth teller  i thought the end of quarter plays ( high screen off ball for t-ross ) were a much needed improvement over dd isos . too bad they did n't work , but they were still better shot attempts .  also it baffles me how little jv gets the 4th , yet only has taken 6-7 . i know our offense is stagnant , but can casey at least do his job better ? study brad stevens or something .  great win , thanks to ross and jv who both came to play .  n8  adjusted grades  derozan d+ lowry c+ jj b ross a valanciunas s+++  gerald  these are the grades ... nice .  mexiballer  that you for doing the quick reaction grades . for real .  dunkenstein  what is an s+++ ?  truth teller  btw i like how they roughed the heat up . so that was nice to see . hurt them a bit more next game . not sure how their brittle bones can handle it .  holdthisl  i hope derozan does n't get on the plane  ken bou  and 1  nanoaggressive  that clip of the difference between wade and debrick cold  starr  james johnson got a d- ? that 's got ta be a typo .  mexiballer  kiyans whole take was kind of the grades or player evaluations .  troy  i was thinkin the same thing , , he came in on d and stopped joe johnson when no one else could  i wonder how akward the room gets when the team is rewatchimg game footage and demar starts going for rushed contested jumpers almost every possession for full qaurters . i can picture everyone just pretending to look away . someone just needs to call him out . this is the fucking playoffs , lets get some ball movement going . but good game , this is going to be another scrappy series .  ken bou  lowry shld get in his face as the big bro . or scola .  for the win  somebody please  jlongs  " that 's his game , that 's the shots he normally makes " -- casey/lowry ( not really but you know that 's what they 'll say )  ca n't call a guy out when the coach and the co-captain talking like it 's the most normal thing .  for the win  im a . atleast kyle is just straight up missing . a lot of his shots are open .  jlongs  that 's why i 'm not against kyle taking more shots , because the shots he takes are mostly good ones and he 's just flat out missing shots he used to make in the regular season .  gizzly73  kyle 's game as well as his shooting has gone downhill . bad turnovers bad decisions . he should be driving and kicking like a mad man and setting up players like tr with a hot hand .  ken bou  hope masais do sth after this is over . put the team before the individuals ols  ken bou  i saw the game in china . commentators was saying why raptors did nt get jv touches inside when whiteside was out . why demar n others were jus taking outside shots ? so embarassing man . get it together people !  dunkenstein  embarrassing ... wtf ?  we just beat the heat . i 'm proud to be a raptors fan . go cheer for , jv did not get the shot attempt . for whole quarter , no assist was made in 6 field goals made . raptors just get lucky plus jv and dc 's effort , and casey will think he 's smart .  truth teller  the offensive plays are hilarious . if i did n't support them i would laugh at the simplicity and ineffectiveness . i 'm pretty sure i 've seen better plays in high school games .  do nt wan na dump on a win , but i have no idea how they won that game ! none ! their stagnant offense from the end of the 2nd quarter on , was literally embarrassing ! having a guy run up for a high screen time and time again for the ball handler , yet having miami sniff it out over and over ! can not figure out how a guy who constantly hits 60-70% of his shots each game , does nt get more touches , yet 2 guards who are shooting in the 20-30 percentile get to take whatever shot they want ? i am and why these guys get their all star numbers by each taking all of the shots they want , , , their offensive schemes blow my mind , and i still can not believe they won , , , but saying all that , happy they did , and hopefully get the u s media off of miami already advancing to play the cabs , , , game 3 -- feed it down low constantly  ken bou  fire casey #  n8  well you know what ? miami 's offense was equally terrible if not worse . all they do is wade pick and roll , dragic pick and roll , or joe johnson iso . they had like 8 or 9 assists to 20 turnovers tonight . they win because they have some amazing isolation scorers , imo the pacers were a better team  troy  i will give u that , the heat seemed to do alot of iso plays tonite , , , first half it worked with joe johnson , but second half they got what they deserved  yodha  we won mostly forced by our decent ) . our offense has been and still is dleague quality .  coulj  amen bro , preach ! i am happy too we won , but we need to use our brains a little , make the freaking smart play ! 1 st quarter was beautiful !  the silver surfer  great use of punctuation , kiyan . none of those unnecessary apostropes preceding the letter s .  anonapotamus  " guys , the raptors are still here -- after more than a handful of mediocre-to-awful performances and scraping by with ws despite their stars laying eggs . that 's something , right ? who knows what kind of run might ensue if they ever actually get it together . "  this  truth teller  remember the game against the spurs when pop was giving casey and the raps mad respect . guess why ( clue : 2 players did n't play that game ) ?  n8  lool i was low key thinking about that . i think pop was thinking " well damn , they 're this amazing when they 're playing ! " yeaaaaah not really ...  starr  casey could n't defend y we could n't get the ball to jv in the second half . he was just murmuring . dumbass coach .  mu put together a very decent team , but they are clearly being held back when the playoffs come by . you ca n't roll with a regular season all star and a 6th man at sg .  either trade 1 or both of them to get a real star . these guys should be relegated to very nice role player status .  how come in almost 10 playoff games , the team is being carried by an under-utilized big man ; a back up pg and a bipolar t. ross .  this makes absolutely no sense . -- to all the clowns who wanted to start byombo over jv . you are all dumber than a pile of donkey sh ! t and do not understand the game of basketball . you should all crawl under a rock and never come back on this site again 2016 all the info is freely available ; you should not willingly make dumb statements . ... go raps .. and also firecasey !  ivo coiman  lol well put . i second those motions ....  coulj  i was yelling at my tv " pass the ball to jv ! " . when jv scores , instead of going back to him no one of our allstar comes takes a fadeaway shot , as if to say , " now it 's my turn " .  our only chance of winning this series , is for lowry to play at least like tonight , and jv needs more touches ! ! ! miami always find mismatches , and goes to them , again and again like joe johnson , that 's called having a high bball iq !  raptorfan07  the longer this series goes the advantage to the raptors , wade is taking a beating and games are played every other day .  yodha  agreed . and i think the real kyle and dd are slowly emerging .  rambo  guy is see wade not as effective today , but i 'm not counting out this dude . even without being able to get to the rim he 's still been effective hitting jumpshots out of pure clutchness ( if that 's even a thing lol )  truth teller  o i almost forgot about the last second shot of regulation . great play . it took the heat off guard for sure so thats a nice adjustment . step back 30 footer in a tie game ...... maybe casey is onto something amazing . bringing isolations back at a whole different level .  holdthisl  i was about to break my tv wtf did he call a timeout for  gerald  i think the back up play is curly neal comes out of retirement and they throw a bucket of confetti on the heat while trying the backward circus shot from thirty feet .  cheezy  i 've never had tummy issues before , but for some reason if you show me demar or casey 's face i just want to throw up . how either of them wow one of the best games i 've ever seen from a guy who took 9 shots . whoever on rr is writing this , you clearly did n't see the game . demar f , casey f , jv a++++++++++++ .  e5h  i was more disappointed in what casey had to say about jv 's game to the reporter pool .  i 'll save you some time . nothing . he said nothing .  haris  the mental fortitude of jv is astonishing . teammates ignore him , coach hates on him and the guy just puts his head down and goes to work ! respect !  j bean  i heard an interview where coach casey was asked about jv and he said he played great but it was hard to get it in to him .  tinmann  just seems ridiculous how jv gets ignored . this team won the first round and are tied 1-1 in the second round despite demar derozan and to a lesser extent , kyle lowry . really has me thinking what this team would look like think about this before , but it 's creeping into my mind too  ivo coiman  let 's not forget last season . he turned it around in the regular season this year by improving his shooting but has regressed terribly in the playoffs so pretty much back to where he was two years ago in terms of poor shot selection and laying bricks ...  truth teller  raptors suck in the second half because the team does n't like jv scoring with ease .  holdthisl  its too boring like that . derozan needs to act like he s kobe  truth teller  he s doing a great job . he is playing like kobe .  keith  i love all the anger after wins . i 'm enjoying this one and hope for more . rage on angry people !  truth teller  this team is on the brink of the eastern conference finals . the biggest enemy is n't the heat , its themselves ( most notably 2 players -- definitely 1 ) . fans have a right to express their bewilderment " bewilderment " . but call it whatever you want , i do n't care because 1-1 vs heat works for me . two ot games with some big shots .  sorry but as a raps fan , i 'm used to not watching them around this time of year .  truth teller  lets raise the standards . this team was the 2nd seed .  keith  still playing are n't they . how about lowering the expectations and enjoy that 2nd seed .  i get angry when they lose like tuesday . i do n't let anger dictate my life .  holdthisl  you can watch longer if derozan throws himself off the plane  keith  you said that already .  cheezy  did you see the game bro ? we would have won by 20 if casey did n't let demar continue to chuck and gave jv one chance . if jv was given 19 shots instead 9 shots , and demar benched from the start to finish , this is a blowout . heat cant guard jv .  keith ...  ken bou  yeah hate how our runs end with up 10 or 12 . y cant we take up a nitch n run up by 20 ?  rainabovetherim  pretty hard to watch the team you rooted for all year play like a shell of themselves . this should have been a blowout , instead we 're supposed to be happy that we barely eked out a win because the other team managed to play worse than we did .  keith  nobody said be happy , but i believe the playoffs are hard to win . heat are n't going to lie down and let raps take it . most people already think heat will win this series , so a tough win is n't supposed to happen ? it should be a cakewalk for a team that has n't been this far in 15 years .  it was kinda funny he got blown by and dunked on by a senior citizen deng . but that ai n't none of my business ...  holdthisl  guy is absolute garbage  ken bou  jus relaxs too much on d  n8  okay not trying to be devil 's advocate or anything but i thought he played a very good first quarter offensively and defensively ( 2 stls ) after that it was pretty much all garbage lol  holdthisl  the game is 4 quarters  n8  which is why i said the rest of the game was garbage , and i thought he played a d+ game overall  cheezy  lets look at a 9 game sample size . the guy is shooting an nba record low , yet casey allows him to still attempt 25+ shots per game . lol . what 's worse ? oh ya jv is on fricking fire over there rebounding like a boss and schooling whiteside .  n8  you know what man you 're right . if derozan ca n't be trusted not to jack so many contested shots then maybe casey has got to tighten the leash a little . but the thing is he 's already kinda doing this , he 's benched him numerous times throughout the playoffs . annoying to see this  cheezy  i 'm trying to be as unbiased as possible . demar is the most overrated player in the nba .  feather ruffler  carmelo anthony .  sinbad  i do n't even know what to say any more . they should have ran miami out of the building early on with all of those turnovers . they 're backing in to wins . if not for valanciunas stepping up despite lowry+derozan 's best efforts to ignore him , this is 2-0 miami . i do n't even know .  justsayin  critical moments = derozan long 2 practice . save it for the practice court after the game buddy .  cheezy  people did math , least efficient shot in the game . 20ticks on the clock , demar doubled ? fadeway 2 with heel on the line brick all day baby .  i feel like im doing this a lot , but i still do n't blame casey here . he 's not the one telling derozan to pull contested jumpshots , he 's running him solid plays the right descisions . he 's also been flat out bricking some clean looks . another thing with lowry is that you know how when dragic or wade is driving you get nervous because they put so much pressure on the d and alwasy find a way to score or make a play ? lowry is not driving with that same intent , he gets all the way to the rim and is still standing completley vertical not even looking at the rim . he got a little of his attack nature back at the end of the game , but man oh man , he needs to get out of this funk  holdthisl  i guess it was n't caseys fault that jv was glued to the bench when biyombo was giving absolutely nothing . yea true ......  n8  glued to the bench ? he played 38 minutes bro , biyombo only played 14  n8  the problem was n't the minutes tonight , it was the lack of touches . look when derozan is running the pick and roll with jonas its on him to casey . pick and roll is actually jonas ' strength , but casey ca n't pass the ball to jonas himself . the guards out there are the primary ball handlers and they got ta make the descision to get him the ball  gizzly73  glued to the bench ? what game were you watching ? the guy has to have a breather  gizzly73  i agree . dc is dumped on on this page but his record of improvement every year speaks . a coach is stuck with the players he has . dd and kl are the guys you win or lose with full stop . if they play shitty , it 's not the coaches fault . however , he must tweak the offense for sat . more jv more tross , less iso .  n8  yeah man , honestly i was all for firing him last year , but he 's done a lot this year to prove that he knows what he 's doing as a coach . once again the ato 's this game were excellent , except for that last  rambo  need to get that ball humming  justsayin  i do n't think i 've ever seen that many straight arms up in the air pump fakes from lowry in one game .  n8  lmao good call . he had josh richardson under the rim at one point and pump faked three times only to pass it out . like nigga is you 2014 jv ? ? ?  pp has given us zero in this series . averaging 2 rebounds per game and missing open 3s as well .  justsayin  byombo underperforming too .  n8  you know what looking at the heat 's rotation , it almost makes sense . unlike most of the rest of the league , they do n't really use stretch 4 's or undersized athletic bigs . they just have 4 guards and one big ass centre . biyombo and patterson essentially have no one they matchup well with  andrew umukoro  amazing we won this game considering how badly we played it tells me that the heat are n't that good of a team w.e . he did stopped jo jhonson increadible scoring run  go-go-wingspan !  true jj-raps stopped the bleeding from iso-joe , thank god . it would of been over in the 2nd quarter  yodha  on a different note , can we get brent barry on our coaching staff ? consistently insightful commentary and astute observations about both teams and plays .  ivo coiman  hey we have leo rautins ! ! ! ! !  n8  lol in a weird way his commentary style reminds me of steve kerr ... good sign right ?  yodha  hope kyle is back shooting practice shots tonight .  ivo coiman  at this point maybe he needs not to practice shooting anymore . does n't seem to be working .  yodha  he was better tonight ... and thats scary .  rainabovetherim  i though james johnson did exactly what he was subbed into do , do n't understand the hate . i do n't recall joe scoring on him .  myint win  winning ugly is better than losing beautifully , but i .  it 's a rap  the most negative fan base in the nba ! ! ! -- a w is a w -- so it was n't pretty in the 2nd half .  raps are damned if they do and damned if they do n't !  rainabovetherim  we did n't win this game , we just managed to make our stupid mistakes at less critical points in the game . miami turns it over 11 times against anyone else left in the playoffs this game is already over .  dunkenstein  is that all you negative nannies got out of this game ? how shit the raptors are .  none of you gave props to the team for pulling out a w against a very tough heat team while their two best ballers are playing below par .  on another note did anyone notice that the heats old guys ran out of gas in the closing minutes ?  j bean  i noticed . that could be key . make wade and joe johnson use up their energy on both ends . why when we were up 86-83 with 14 seconds left and the heat in possession , that derozan was on the court ... this is the playoffs , loyalty is great , but casey needs to make the tough call in those scenarios . not complaining about the win , but i mean damn .  n8  to be fair it was carroll who made the defensive blunder not derozan  justsayin  start ross ? put him on dragic ? lowry on wade ?  n8  no do n't start ross . changing the linueps has had a noticable affect on our rotations and rythmn , but we finally got to a point where we have good starts and solid scoring off the bench . norm is also doing his job as a starter well . i 'm waiting for patterson to show up in the series to provide the one two punch with ross , but it just looks like its a bad matchup for him  moderateobserver  ross is in a groove do nt interrupt it . the team has started games well both games a problem .  justsayin  on reflection ... no way he gets as many shots if he 's on the floor with both lowry and derozan .  moderateobserver  wow how times have changed in a matter of weeks . nobody wanted derozan to see the ball tonight ! inefficient shooting really is annoying , there was a heat run at the end of the third where derozan decided to take on the heat all by himself , he went 1 of 4 .  this team scores when they move the ball , i thought these guys watched tape , if they did they would know that every time the other team goes on a run its because they stop moving the ball .  nigset  raps lose by 20+ in game 3 . book it !  moderateobserver  hey kiyan , i think when james johnson came in , it stopped joe johnson 's momentum , he scored 8 points to start the third and went quiet when jj came on to guard him , thats not a ' d ' performance .  leez was watching , but it sure was n't this one . dc brought jj in because the other jj ( let 's call him jj , since he sucked big time down the stretch ) was scoring on every single raptor who was guarding him , so he figured that jj , who was brought back to toronto specifically to guard jj , should get a shot at him . and what did he do ? he immediately bodies him up and stopped him cold , and got a rebound to boot . and the next time down the floor , jj did n't even bother trying to score . yup , that 's horrible defence alright ! and calling out carroll for losing gd is correct , but apart from that , carroll played tremendous defence all game long . those four steals were all high degree of difficulty . tross kept the team in the game on offence and played pretty good defence , and he gets a b- ? jv does n't get an a+ ? ? ? what on earth more did he have to do ? ...  it 's a rap  i hope when the raps punch the heat in the mouth 3 more times and reach the eastern finals you bitches stfu with your armchair coaching and gm fantasy picks .  before you open your mouth to reply , ensure you 've actually played more than pick up ball or in gym class as some of know shit about the game .  acmaple  jv deserved an a++ ; unstoppable in the 4th and ot , wiped the floor with whiteside . why is n't he getting more touches is all on casey and derozan , give the man the ball ! !  dunkenstein  james johnson bad d ?  mexiballer  i know . whats up with that . he stopped the joe johnson run .  cjt  he did cheat on him once and was lucky to avoid an open three , but other than that i thought he was solid on d and i am not a big fan of his to begin with .  justsayin  it 's amazing how the raptors win this  cjt  i will admit that i am not a big jj fan . but i am not understanding your account of his performance tonight at all . he came in and was not spectacular , but he squashed the joe johnson run and johnson never really got it back after that . so that in itself was fantastic .