Lining up to aid Fort Mac
http://www.castanet.net/news/Kelowna/165089/Lining-up-to-aid-Fort-Mac

kelowna  lining up to aid fort mac  residents of the central okanagan who have endured evacuations and uncertainty from wildfires on both sides of the lake , know what it means to get help .  many are now looking to help the more than 80,000 people facing the same uncertainty after being evacuated from fort mcmurray and surrounding communities .  in fort mcmurray alone , at least 1,600 homes , businesses and structures have already been lost .  and , they are not out of the woods yet .  central okanagan residents have been asking , how can we help ?  several organizations , individuals and businesses have stepped up to help .  in kelowna , organizers of the mission hall spring barn dance , are pledging to send 50 per cent of all proceeds from the dance to the red cross disaster relief fund .  the dance is scheduled for saturday , may 14 . tickets are $20 .  of course , the red cross is accepting donations themselves , while all bc liquor stores are  for those interested in helping with tangible goods , instead of cash , the canadian brewhouse on pandosy near klo is accepting both clothing and non-perishable items . they are also accepting donations for the red cross .  the brewhouse has locations all across alberta as well , including in fort mcmurray .  he is hoping to receive enough good to fill a truck for transport to alberta next thursday or friday .  " with everything going on in fort mcmurray , i feel the city of kelowna can help out , if we can get donations of any kind to the people displaced by the fire , this will go along way , " garagan said in setting up the group .  comments are pre-moderated to ensure they meet our guidelines . approval times will vary . keep it civil , and stay on topic . if you see an inappropriate comment , please use the ' flag ' feature . comments are the opinions of the comment writer , not of castanet . comments remain open for one day after a story is published to start or join a discussion about this story .