Finning Announces Renewal of Share Repurchase Program
http://www.stockhouse.com/news/press-releases/2016/05/09/finning-announces-renewal-of-share-repurchase-program

finning announces renewal of share repurchase program  vancouver , british columbia -- ( marketwired ) -- 05/09/16 -- finning international inc . ( tsx:ftt ) ( " finning " ) announced today that it received approval from the toronto stock exchange ( " tsx " ) to renew its normal course issuer bid ( " ncib " ) to purchase for cancellation up to 16,764,750 of its common shares , representing approximately 10% of the public float ( 167,647,505 common shares ) and 9.97% of the total common shares issued and outstanding ( 168,099,520 common shares ) , in each case as at april 25 , 2016 .  the ncib , which will begin on may 11 , 2016 and end no later than may 10 , 2017 , will be conducted through the facilities of the tsx or other canadian marketplaces or alternative trading systems , if eligible , and will conform to their rules and regulations .  the board of directors of finning believe that , from time to time , the purchase by finning of its common shares represents a desirable  the average daily trading volume of finning 's common shares over the six month period ending april 30 , 2016 , as calculated per the tsx rules , was 714,041 common shares . consequently , under tsx rules , finning will be allowed to purchase daily , through the facilities of the tsx , a maximum of 178,510 common shares representing 25% of such average daily trading volume , subject to certain exceptions for block purchases . all shares purchased pursuant to the normal course issuer bid will be cancelled .  purchases under the normal course issuer bid will be made by means of open market transactions or such other means as the tsx may permit .  the price to be paid by finning for any common share will be the market price at the time of acquisition , plus brokerage fees , or such other price as the tsx may permit .  under the current ncib , which will expire on may 10 , 2016 , finning repurchased an aggregate of 4,383,170 common shares at a weighted average price of $20.734 per common share .  's largest caterpillar equipment dealer delivering unrivalled service to customers for over 80 years . finning sells , rents and provides parts and service for equipment and engines to help customers maximize productivity . headquartered in vancouver , b.c. , the company operates in western canada , chile , argentina , bolivia , and the united kingdom and ireland .  forward-looking disclaimer  this report contains statements about the company 's business outlook , objectives , plans , strategic priorities and other statements that are not historical facts . a statement finning makes is forward-looking when it uses what the company knows and expects today to make a statement about the future . forward-looking statements may include words such as aim , anticipate , assumption , believe , could , expect , goal , guidance , intend , may , objective , outlook , plan , project , seek , should , strategy , strive , target , and will . forward-looking statements in this report include , but are not limited to , statements with respect to : expectations with respect to the economy and associated impact on the and goodwill impairment charges ; facility closures ; expected revenue ; expected free cash flow ; ebit margin ; expected profitability levels ; expected range of the effective tax rate ; roic ; market share growth ; expected results from service excellence action plans ; anticipated asset utilization ; inventory turns and parts service levels ; the expected target range of the company 's net debt to invested capital ratio ; and the expected financial impact from acquisitions . all such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the ' safe harbour ' provisions of applicable canadian securities laws .  unless otherwise indicated by us , forward-looking statements in this report reflect finning 's expectations at may 9 , 2016 . except as may be required by canadian securities laws , finning does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement , whether as a result of new information , future events , or otherwise .  forward-looking statements , by their very nature , are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on several assumptions which give rise to the possibility that actual results could such forward-looking statements and that finning 's business outlook , objectives , plans , strategic priorities and other statements that are not historical facts may not be achieved . as a result , finning can not guarantee that any forward-looking statement will materialize . factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements include : general economic and market conditions ; foreign exchange rates ; commodity prices ; the level of customer confidence and spending , and the demand for , and prices of , finning 's products and services ; finning 's dependence on the continued market acceptance of products and timely supply of parts and equipment ; finning 's ability to continue to improve productivity and operational efficiencies while continuing to maintain customer service ; finning 's ability to manage cost pressures as growth in revenue occurs ; finning 's ability to reduce costs in response to slowing activity levels ; finning 's ability to attract sufficient skilled labour resources as market conditions , business strategy or technologies change ; finning 's ability to negotiate and renew and the company ; the intensity of competitive activity ; finning 's ability to raise the capital needed to implement its business plan ; regulatory initiatives or proceedings , litigation and changes in laws or regulations ; stock market volatility ; changes in political and economic environments for operations ; the integrity , reliability , availability and benefits from information technology and the data processed by that technology . forward-looking statements are provided in this report for the purpose of giving information about management 's current expectations and plans and allowing investors and others to get a better understanding of finning 's operating environment . however , readers are cautioned that it may not be appropriate to use such forward-looking statements for any other purpose .  forward-looking statements made in this report are based on a number of assumptions that finning believed were reasonable on the day the company made the forward-looking statements . refer in particular to the outlook section of this md&amp;a . some of the assumptions , risks , and other factors which could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements contained company 's current aif and in the annual md&amp;a for the financial risks .  finning cautions readers that the risks described in the md&amp;a and the aif are not the only ones that could impact the company . additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that are currently deemed to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on finning 's business , financial condition , or results of operations .  except as otherwise indicated , forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any non-recurring or other unusual items or of any dispositions , mergers , acquisitions , other business combinations or other transactions that may be announced or that may occur after the date hereof . the financial impact of these transactions and non-recurring and other unusual items can be complex and depends on the facts particular to each of them . finning therefore can not describe the expected impact in a meaningful way or in the same way finning presents known risks affecting its business .