Purchase Price of Style Cameos Sale Increased
http://www.stockhouse.com/news/press-releases/2016/05/09/purchase-price-of-style-cameos-sale-increased

purchase price of style cameos sale increased  vancouver , / thenewswire / may 9 , 2016 /cnw/ - crestwell resources inc . ( " crestwell " ) ( cse : cer ) , is pleased to announce that the purchase price for the sale of thestyle cameos technology platform ( the " sale " ) has been increased to $332,560.24 , including sales tax , from $255,070.24 . including a related payable that was previously cancelled , the net improvement to working capital will be $402,670 . the original agreement was announced on may 3 , 2016 .  " once again we are grateful to the purchasers , fabrice and nadine taylor , for their support . we look forward to closing the previously announced reverse merger with organic garage and are very pleased to have a strong balance sheet to apply to growing the business , " said ceo tom kennedy .  forward-looking statements - statements contained in this news release , which are not historical facts , are forward-looking statements that involve risk , uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual such forward-looking statements . there can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.the forward looking statements include that the company will sell the described assets and that the price will be $332,560.24 including sales tax and that the net improvement to working capital will be $402,670 . all forward-looking statements included in this news release are based on information available to the company on the date hereof . forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks , uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results of crestwell to differ materially from the conclusion , forecast or projection stated in such forward-looking statements . these risks , uncertainties and other factors include , but are not limited to factors referenced in crestwell other continuous disclosure filings , which are available atwww.sedar.com . readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements . the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements , except as required by applicable securities laws .