Be Free Project aims to break the chains
http://www.stonyplainreporter.com/2016/05/27/be-free-project-aims-to-break-the-chains

The day-to-day aspects of life that should n't have been a challenge were incredibly difficult under the weight of her depression , she remembers .  But , for the Spruce Grove business owner , yoga was her one escape and allowed her to clear her mind .  " It was just a time of day where I could feel like myself , I could feel light , " Jolicoeur explained . " ( Depression ) is a really , really heavy feeling all the time , so if there 's a couple minutes in your day where you can actually get out from underneath that weight , it can make a huge difference in that **30;614;TOOLONG process . "  Yoga helped Jolicoeur break the chains that held her in depression , and now the yoga instructor at Be Free Yoga in Spruce Grove wants to share that same hope with others .  Last fall , she began formulating her plan for the Be Free Project .  The project began with the goal of eliminating the shame and stigma surrounding mental illness and and meditation . It will offer workshops , classes and events in the community to create awareness and offer hope .  " I really wanted to give other people the tools of yoga and meditation that they maybe would n't be able to access otherwise , " she said .  Now , with the help of others , her vision is about to come to fruition .  " Even though I had a really great support system behind me , not everybody has that luxury , " said Jolicoeur , who still felt ashamed in her struggle with depression despite the love and support of family and friends . " It 's been a process to work through that , so any way we can help people work through that with yoga and meditation is really exciting . "  Jolicoeur has spoken with mental health nurses to determine how the Be Free Project can best serve those dealing with mental illness .  The Be Free Project will offer classes , free of charge , to people on the journey to recovering from depression and other problems they can feel safe , " Jolicoeur said . " When people go through depression and these different things , sometimes we 're not able to work , and it 's not always accessible for us to get to a yoga studio , or if you 've never done yoga before it can be really intimidating to come in to a studio . So we just want to make it really accessible for anybody to drop in free of charge . "  To raise funds to get the project started , Be Free Yoga will be holding Community for a Cause : Yoga in the Park , a mini yoga festival at Jubilee Park in Spruce Grove on June 21 from 5-9 p.m. to coincide with International Day of Yoga . The event will include a yoga and meditation class , bohemian market and food truck .  Tickets for the outdoor yoga event are $15 each until June 10 and $20 after that . They can be purchased online at www.befreeproject.ca under the events section . Tickets can also be purchased at the door .  Jolicoeur hopes to month .  " I 'm really excited to get this going and start talking about mental health , " she said . " It needs to be at the forefront of more conversations . "