Warehouse Mobile Solutions Verifies App Allows for Rapid ...
http://www.digitaljournal.com/pr/2954972

Murray , UT -- ( SBWIRE ) -- 05/27/2016 -- Warehouse Mobile Solutions ' Verify is an app available with WarehouseOS . Verify allows to rapidly verify all of the items for an order which have been picked and are ready to be packaged and shipped to the customer .  When a tote or cart is delivered to the packaging area the operator simply scans the barcode on the cart or tote containing the customer 's items . A list of the items and the quantity of each item ordered is displayed . The operator scans each item to verify that it is correct until all items have been scanned . Once the correct quantity is verified a green checkmark is displayed . If there is an insufficient quantity to fulfill the order the operator simply touches the red " X " and the item is marked short with a red checkmark and the information is transmitted to Tablet Director .  About WarehouseOS The RF gun , constant verifications , small keypads , and hard to read screens are quickly becoming yesterday 's technology . new tablet-based Warehouse Operations System brings warehouses into the future today . Warehouse management systems have been around for a long time with too many companies still using the RF gun to conduct inventory management , scan in new items , and pick orders . The RF gun solutions typically cost double what modern solutions offer . WarehouseOS and associated apps have been developed to make everything about the warehouse easier and better . Apps allow small or large companies to receive products , manage inventory , perform cycle counting , conduct single picks or do batch picking , verify items picked and pack them into boxes .  An easy to navigate user interface means warehouse personnel need almost no training before performing warehouse tasks . Receiving , put-away , picking , and packaging quickly become the easiest jobs on the floor . A team of experts in material handling equipment and solutions developed WarehouseOS to maximize the throughput of warehousing and distributing facilities . From small eCommerce , to high volume SKU facilities , from omni-channel companies to FMCG ( fast moving consumer goods ) , WarehouseOS is equipped to complex , large distribution centers , WarehouseOS is the table solution which enables manufacturers and distribution centers to be a step ahead of the competition .