Offence stays hot as Stratford City FC beats Hrvat 5-1 to stay ...
http://www.stratfordbeaconherald.com/2016/06/11/offence-stays-hot-as-stratford-city-fc-beats-hrvat-5-1-to-stay-unbeaten-in-kdsl

last year stratford city fc did n't score its 17th goal of the regular season until aug. 21 , a 2-1 win over guelph in the team 's 14th match .  fast forward nearly 10 months later and the first-place kitchener and district soccer league men 's premier club has scored that many goals in seven matches after a 5-1 win over hrvat at rotary park .  stratford improved to 6-0-1 .  " one thing we 've proven so far this year is from the first to 90th minute we 're always trying to score , " head coach jim grogan said . " guys keep the pressure on . "  what made city fc 's latest victory impressive was that five different players scored .  aap inthasian , kurtis bailey , ashley adams , jordan hayle and ryan harrison all found the back of the net .  " it 's tough to beat a team when they have balanced scoring like that , and we 've really had that this year , " grogan said . " i hope it through the second half , the suddenly potent city fc offence erupted for four goals in 20 minutes .  hayle started the onslaught after out-muscling a hrvat defender and sending an off-balance shot toward the net from the top of the box . the rebound was kicked high into the air , and adams headed it past the hrvat keeper for the winning goal .  hayle made it 3-1 moments later when he scored into an open net after pressuring the hrvat keeper and blocking his kick .  " the third goal was huge , " grogan said . " that really took the wind out of their sails and ( was ) opportunistic . picked a good time to pressure the back line and stepped in front of the ball and ( it was a ) tap in . "  bailey took advantage of the aggressive hrvat keeper and also had a goal gift-wrapped late in the second half , while harrison had a tap-in of his own after adams ' header was stopped but the ball fell to harrison 's feet with no one around back , we punish them more times than not , " grogan said .  stratford is averaging nearly 2.5 goals per match with nearly the same roster as last season , when it averaged 1.5 . grogan made some changes to the lineup , moving strikers harrison and bailey to central midfield .  " i 'm not sure if that 's the only reason , but kurtis is always a threat , " grogan said . " either one of them , because of their abilities as strikers , they 're able to run at defenders . they 're also good passers . "  grogan also implemented some strategic changes -- short passes , different positioning and structure -- that have benefitted the rotation of adams , hayle and inthasian up front .  " we 're just going to keep working with that , " grogan said . " we 're getting better chances this year , too , i really believe that . we had chances last year too , and we were snake-bit a couple times , but overall we 're creating way more chances midfield are something to do with that . "  city fc will play a dasilva cup semifinal match wednesday against bridgeport ( location tbd ) and face sonnys fc next sunday night , also on the road .  the team is confident , grogan said , but it 's also not getting ahead of itself .  " we expect to win every game now . we 're off to a great start , but that 's all it is. "