Annual fundraising fun run will channel proceeds to local Shelterlink ...
http://www.stratfordbeaconherald.com/2016/06/11/annual-fundraising-fun-run-will-channel-proceeds-to-local-shelterlink-charity

To raise awareness about homelessness , members of the team spent the night sleeping in cardboard boxes during their recent BYOB event at Wallenstein Feed &amp; Supply Co .  The creative boxes -- one had a flower box and another looked like a church with stained-glass windows -- were guaranteed to attract attention . The Wallenswine team has been an enthusiastic supporter of the annual Hog Jog which raises funds for a different local organization each year .  This year proceeds from the 11th instalment of the Hog Jog June 22 at the Stratford Rotary Complex will support Stratford/Perth Shelterlink .  Shelterlink was founded in 1991 to provide homeless and at-risk youth between 16 and 24 with a safe place to live , along with food , basic needs , advocacy , life skills and other services .  Hog Jog co-chair Bill MacDougald said when the committee was looking at applications , Shelterlink rose to the top of the pile .  " It 's a cause you 're not necessarily aware of unless you 're involved . It 's just such a Shelterlink provided direct services to 231 youth and fielded another 3,500 calls and emails , many of which led to referrals to other agencies .  " The money they raise for us is a game changer , " said Bev Hagedorn , Shelterlink executive director . " We feel very fortunate to be chosen . We could never be able to get that amount of money any other way . "  Last year the Hog Jog raised more than $40,000 . The Wallenswine team raised about $16,000 of that .  The money raised will make it possible for Shelterlink to run a program called New Life Story . The program helps youth develop a plan for their health , social life and financial responsibilities needed to live an independent life .  " Sometimes , when we get older we forget the assistance we had along the way , " Hagedorn said .  The youth who come to Shelterlink have n't had adult guidance and " have a lot to make peace with , " she said .  " We help strengthen them and stand them going to school , youth who live at the hostel compete with their peers for jobs .  " Our society is not set up to provide jobs for someone whose address is a homeless shelter or who ca n't read or write very well , " Hagedorn noted .  To participate in the Hog Jog there 's no need to run or even jog . There is a 3.5-km walk or run , a 10-km run and a 500-metre Weaner Run for kids six years old and under . There are also opportunities to show support online . Each registrant will get a pork-on-a-bun meal and the chance to win a prize .  Organizers are expecting about 500 runners and walkers again this year .