Had just about enough of some Facebook users
http://www.delta-optimist.com/news/business/had-just-about-enough-of-some-facebook-users-1.2284284

had just about enough of some facebook users  i have been roaming around facebook for a bit - long enough to observe that some folks should n't be there .  you 've seen them - or rather , you 've read their posts . take the tmi group , or the ones who offer too much information .  and i mean way , way too much .  they 're the ones who want to tell you every last symptom of the recent flu they had . they 're the ones who want to tell you every sordid detail in their divorce proceedings . they 're the ones who want to tell you about their struggles with the bank account and their dealings with the boss .  please , i want to tell them . keep it to yourself .  then there 's the rrb gang . like the tmis , the rrbs really should be required to take a course in appropriate facebook behaviour .  that 's because they 're really , really boring .  " woke up at shower , then breakfast ( eggs and toast , unbuttered ) . flossed . now going to do crossword with a coffee at hand . ( cream , no sugar . ) " sometimes , the rrbs will upsell their brilliant posts with a photo of said dental floss or coffee cup .  ban them , i say . for life .  equally annoying is the ub pack . oh , you know them well , my friends .  they 're the ultimate braggers .  the ub will post news - always with a photo album - of little johnny when he 's ( 1 ) lost his first tooth , ( 2 ) created his first finger painting , or ( 3 ) sat through his first meal without hurling alphagetti at his sister .  the ubs also want the world to know they 're the best of the best at - you name it - photography , cooking , gardening , soap carving or competitive dog grooming .  they appear on fb every day , and i 'd like to strike them from lesson or two in facebook school is the dv crowd - you know , the ones who are deliberately vague .  the dv will write something like this : " the sky is grey today . fitting . "  or : " i 'd love to . but i ca n't . " or : " chances are , i 'll be late . "  to which i want to say : huh ? the dvs are annoyances , it seems to me , and absolute attention getters . they know that no one will understand what they 're saying , and that everyone will ask .  grow up , dvs . and lastly , i 'd like to take a swipe at the ssps , since they may be the facebook folks who are the greatest irritants .  the ssps are not prone to bragging or to telling you things you 'd rather not hear . they do , however , like to share syrupy sweet postings , invariably with an abundance of hearts , smiley faces and exclamation marks .  " today is ! ! ! ! ! " the ssp will say .  um , no . some folks may think i 'm grumpy , and perhaps that 's what i am .  comments  note : to post a comment you must have an account with at least one of the following services : disqus , facebook , twitter , google+ you may then login using your account credentials for that service . if you do not already have an account you may register a new profile with disqus by first clicking the " post as " button and then the link : " do n't have one ? register a new profile " .  the delta optimist welcomes your opinions and comments . we do not allow personal attacks , offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations . we reserve the right to edit comments for length , style , legality and taste and reproduce them in print , electronic or otherwise . for further information , please contact the editor or publisher , or see our terms and conditions .