Contractworks Contract Management Software Launches New ...
http://www.digitaljournal.com/pr/2981849

( PRLeap.com ) June 22 , 2016 - ContractWorks Contract Management Software announces additional custom features that are designed specifically to improve efficiency during reporting , and enhance contract management procedures by saving time through customized simplicity .  ContractWorks , the most user-friendly , secure , and affordable contract management software releases powerful feature enhancements designed specifically to remove complication from the reporting process through customization and automation . These latest additions are enabling contract managers , human resources professionals , and corporate legal teams to streamline their document management processes by offering an affordable solution with a clean and simple user interface and a robust post-signature feature set that saves users endless hours of unnecessary work .  The new " scheduled reports " feature gives users the ability to streamline the reporting process . By allowing for the creation of customizable reporting parameters , complete with pre-scheduled notifications sent via email , users can simply outline how frequently they need specific information , and ContractWorks will do the work for them based on their unique reporting schedule .  Another feature setting ContractWorks apart customizable contract tags , allowing users to customize their documents with a ' tag ' of any parameter they choose . Custom tags give users flexibility in reporting on data that is important to them , and with this latest enhancement , users can now create tags with multiple values . By empowering users to assign multiple attributes to one tag and create the corresponding reports , ContractWorks makes it easy for users to capture a variety of detailed information at once , instead of wasting time running multiple reports to achieve the same goal .  ContractWorks ' new feature enhancements are yet another reason why businesses are choosing to use the software everyday . It has become apparent that the simple approach to contract management is not only welcomed but necessary as an industry standard , and it is clear that too many solutions are designed to be overly complex and are chalk-full of unnecessary and unuseable features . ContractWorks has once again proven that what contract mangers need is clean software with an intuitive user interface , plus a streamlined and valuable feature set-something that the software company including scheduling a short demo to see the new features in more detail , go here : www.contractworks.com .  ContractWorks , by SecureDocs , Inc. , provides contract management software that focuses on usability and a simple user interface . ContractWorks offers a comprehensive feature set for companies that are keen to move away from managing contracts manually , tracking details on Excel , or struggling with an existing contract management process that 's too complicated or too expensive . Located in Santa Barbara , California , and created by the engineers and team who helped develop well-known products like GoToMeeting , GoToMyPC , AppFolio , and Rightscale , SecureDocs , Inc. is dedicated to building software solutions that are highly secure , easily adopted , and affordable for any type or size of business .