Court grants bail to two in Arun Jaitley call detail records case
http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-court-grants-bail-to-two-in-arun-jaitley-call-detail-records-case-1842082

court grants bail to two in arun jaitley call detail records case  the court directed the two accused to furnish a personal bond of rs 10,000 and a surety of like amount each .  a court in new delhi on friday granted bail to a delhi police constable and a private detective , arrested for allegedly buying a sim card on fake proofs to procure the call detail records of bjp leader arun jaitley and others .  chief metropolitan magistrate ( cmm ) sanjay bansal enlarged constable arvind dabas , 35 , and detective neeraj nayar , 36 , on bail on the ground that they have already got the relief in the main phone tappingcase by another court .  the court directed the two accused to furnish a personal bond of rs 10,000 and a surety of like amount each .  dabas , nayar and two others were yesterday granted bail by another court in the phone-tapping case in which they were accused of being involved in a racket of illegally obtaining call detail records saying that charge sheet has already investigation .  dabas and nayar on friday approached the court of cmm bansal seeking bail on the ground that the present case was a part of the same transaction in which they had yesterday secured bail and there was nothing new in it .  " no new offence has been committed by dabas and nayar . since they have already got bail in the main case of phone tapping , they should also be released in this case , " advocate naushad ahmed khan , appearing for the accused , said .  the accused also sought bail on the ground that charge sheet has already been filed in the case and they were not required for custodial interrogation and they have been in custody for over 100 days .  the police opposed their plea saying they should not be released as the allegations against them are serious and they are accused of procuring sim card on the basis of forged papers for securing call details of many persons by illegally using the official email id of senior police officials .  the police had on march 8 had fraudulently procured a sim card which was used by them in the crime .  in its charge sheet filed in the case arising out of the probe into jaitley phone-tapping case , the special cell of delhi police had said that dabas and nayar had used the sim card to " illegally procure " call detail records ( cdrs ) of many persons by using official e-mail ids of authorised police officials .  they said that during probe , it was established that nayar had purchased a sim card on fake id of one ameer beg from shahdara area in east delhi and he had given it to dabas who used it for internet usage to " illegally procure the cdrs and subscribers detail records ( sdrs ) of many persons by using the official email ids of authorised delhi police personnel " .  " from the investigation conducted so far , sufficient evidence has come on the file against both neeraj and dabas to prosecute them for the offences of forgery , using forged documents as genuine , destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy under the on april 16 , the special cell had named dabas , nayar , anurag singh and nitish singh in the charge sheet in the jaitley phone-tapping case saying one of the accused did this at a " personal level " to allegedly rescue himself from criminal proceedings going against him in 2005 amar singh phone-tapping case .  it had alleged anurag , the alleged mastermind , was obtaining cdrs of jaitley and others expecting it could be " exploited " in rescuing himself from the amar singh case .