Cubiclenama | Coping with randomness
http://www.livemint.com/Opinion/7n9BNxUtqgOgF4kzLRu4JJ/Cubiclenama--Coping-with-randomness.html

Cubiclenama Coping with randomness  Economists , politicians , diplomats and religious leaders all function with unstinting faith in their own models of the universe . Photo : ThinkStock  Take all the human innovation and invention and ingenuity from the dawn of time right up till five minutes ago . Take every tool , every device , every technique and every technology . From the first pointed stick ever picked up the from the ground by a caveman , to the latest Tesla electric car . What is the driving force behind these developments ?  Now this is not an original idea . I do n't exactly recall where I read this for the first time . But I think it was in one of J.M. Roberts ' excellent single-volume histories of the world . In it he suggests that the human strivings that lead to epochal inventions such as agriculture , electricity or the Internet are motivated not , as you might expect , by visions of a better life , or longevity or convenience .  Instead , Roberts suggests , they are single-minded human determination to reduce the randomness in our existence .  For instance , the life of the hunter-gatherer is of utmost unpredictability . Who knows when a goat will offer itself for hunting , or a coconut palm for gathering ? Or both for some appam stew . Agriculture brought stability and predictability to their food supplies .  Similarly , ancient mariners developed navigation so that they could actually reach somewhere . And not flounder about on some strange jungle shore with no baggage and no food . ( Though Air France is working very hard at returning us to those beastly days . )  And thus human beings , over the ages , have tried to constantly increase the predictability of every sphere of homo sapien activity from manufacturing and medicine to meteorology and short-format cricketing tournaments .  But what does all this have to with office culture and cubicle life ? Or have I simply been wasting the last three minutes of your glorious Saturday morning ?  Earlier this month , consumer goods company Procter and Gamble ( P&amp;G ) announced that it to run the company . In 2009 , Lafley stepped down after handing over the control room to Bob McDonald , a hand-picked successor . At the time the transfer was referred to as a text-book case of transition management .  Lafley was said to have not only picked a successor , but also left behind an internal system at P&amp;G to pick and groom leaders for the future . Lafley , it appeared , had left the company future-proof .  Now Lafley is back and there are already reports of a new restructuring at P&amp;G that will turn around the company and help identify a better successor .  For P&amp;G 's sake I hope it works .  But the story exposes some of the modern workplace 's misplaced insouciance that it can manage all randomness .  Business schools , business textbooks and business gurus all give us the impression that most , if not every , element of the workplace and business can be reduced to deterministic rules . Follow the rules , execute the prescribed actions , and you will get your desired outcomes , that the human beings involved become irrelevant .  This is fine so far as the models are extended to mathematical things such as simple banking , supply chains , information systems and so on .  But extend this thinking to concepts such as " leadership " and suddenly you 're tap-dancing on razor-thin ice .  To me the very idea of a " leadership grooming system " is ridiculous . It seems a wishful , futile attempt to mitigate all kinds of inestimably random things . It is also a reflection of the modern organization 's insistence that the process is superior to the person . Apple is greater than Steve Jobs . Virgin is greater than Richard Branson . Amazon is greater than Jeff Bezos .  But what if they are n't ? What if P&amp;G can never replace Lafley ? What if there is simply no way of using all your confounded obsession with controlling randomness to cleave the leader from the legions ?  And even if your leadership grooming programme does throw up some brilliant young managers , what about the external with Winston Churchill , what if you appoint a great peace-time CEO for a brutal war-time scenario ?  But there are other randomness-es besides leadership as well . The back-alleys of marketing are littered with dead brands that got great focus group feedback . And yet managers continue to obsess over these tools that give them the sense that human emotional response can be " managed " .  Of course , this obsession extends to all spheres of life . Economists , politicians , diplomats and religious leaders all function with unstinting faith in their own models of the universe .  The general public is little better . Each generation likes to think that it has tamed randomness a little better than the previous one . And then something falls apart .  Cubiclenama takes a weekly look at pleasures and perils of corporate life . Your comments are welcome at cubiclenama@livemint.com . To read Sidin Vadukut 's previous columns , go to **28;577;TOOLONG