Doctors call cancer drug pricing profiteering, call for price cuts
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/Doctors-call-cancer-drug-pricing-profiteering-call-for-price-cuts/articleshow/20369091.cms

doctors call cancer drug pricing profiteering , call for price cuts  rema nagarajan  over a hundred experts in chronic myeloid leukaemia ( cml ) , a kind of blood cancer , have criticised the high prices of cancer drugs and have argued for the need to lower the prices of cancer drugs to allow more patients to afford them .  tnn may 31 , 2013 , 06.55 pm ist  recently , the supreme court of india denied a patent on ? imatinib to novartis , allowing cheaper generics to be ... read more  new delhi : over a hundred experts in chronic myeloid leukaemia ( cml ) , a kind of blood cancer , have criticised the high prices of cancer drugs and have argued for the need to lower the prices of cancer drugs to allow more patients to afford them .  selected cml experts from all over the world were invited to contribute to this article , including two from india , dr hemant malhotra of sms college , jaipur and dr pankaj malhotra of pgi chandigarh . the the jacking up of the price of bread in a famine or like raising commodity prices after natural disasters . among the experts is dr brian druker , key researcher behind the development of imatinib , a revolutionary drug to treat cml .  " we believe the unsustainable drug prices in cml and cancer may be causing harm to patients . advocating for lower drug prices is a necessity to save the lives of patients who can not afford them , " stated the doctors in their editorial which was published in the journal of the american society of hematology , blood . recently , the supreme court of india denied a patent on ? imatinib to novartis , allowing cheaper generics to be available to cml patients in india and other parts of the world that depend on india for generic medicines .  " authorship in the article was by invitation only . pankaj and i were invited to be part of this article and i believe that every oncologist and every doctor across all specialties is interested in getting the patient cured with the least possible morbidity said dr hemant malhotra when contacted by the times of india . dr tarun kumar dutta of jipmer in pondicherry also stated that he was sure that every doctor felt the prices were too high and would like to have the prices reduced so that they could treat more patients .  dr malhotra pointed out that while the situation was acute in the us , in india , several patients , especially the poor were getting access through differential drug pricing or subsidies offered by many multinational pharma companies . however , india is estimated to have over 2 lakh cml patients with 30,000 being added every year . a free drug program like the one run by novartis covers only a fraction of these patients through doctors they choose . " the central and/or the state government should buy the drug in bulk from a good generic drug manufacturer and provide it free for cml patients , " suggested dr malhotra as a way to increase access to treatment . according to the editorial , of the 12 drugs approved by the fda for various cancer indications in 2012 drug prices have almost doubled from a decade ago , from an average of $5,000 per month to more than $10,000 per month , it stated . several of the doctors who were co-authors of the editorial have done research work and clinical trials with drug companies but they felt that though they supported a healthy pharma industry , they felt that the prices being charged were way above what was needed to maintain " healthy profits " .  the experts have raised the question , what determines a morally justifiable " just price " for cancer drug . " a reasonable drug price should maintain healthy pharmaceutical company profits without being viewed as " profiteering " ( making profit by unethical methods , like raising commodity prices after natural disasters ) .  it goes on to expose how pricing had no connection to the actual cost of developing a drug . the original imatinib price of $30,000 in 2001 when it was released is said to have reflected the cost of development with the then novartis ceo justifying it saying that it was imperative for " healthy profit high price , it was thought to be a worthwhile and profitable price despite numerous appeals by patients to lower the price .  the doctors point out that instead of lowering the price it actually increased from $30,000 to $92,000 per year despite the fact that all research costs were accounted for in the original price and despite the fact that new indications were developed and approved by the fa for the drug and the number of cml patients taking imatinib had dramatically increased .  " hopes that the fundamentals of a free market economy and market competition will settle cancer drug prices at lower levels have not been fulfilled . all 5 tkis ( tyrosine kinase inhibitors ) approved for cml have annual price ranges of $92-138,000 in the us , twice the prices in europe where governments bargain for bulk prices , " pointed out the editorial . it goes on to detail how collusive behavior could maintain high prices over extended periods of time , despite competitive markets , thus representing a form of " collective monopoly " and how companies engage in pay-to-delay deals to companies get extensions on patents so that they can indulge in monopoly pricing longer .  though cml prevalence worldwide is estimated to be about 1.2 -1.5 million patients , based on sales , it is estimated that less than 25% are receiving imatinib with an additional 5% getting the drug through the drug companies ' free drug programme , stated the editorial . that still leaves 75% without access to the drug and the doctors squarely blame the " astronomical prices " for the lack of access to treatment which could allow cml patients to live close-to-normal life spans as long as they have access to the drugs and adhere to treatment .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  most popular  the external affairs ministry on wednesday advised indian students seeking admission in two california-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the us government on the issue .