IIM-Bangalore appoints Rajiv Maliwal to board
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/education/news/IIM-Bangalore-appoints-Rajiv-Maliwal-to-board/articleshow/20370405.cms

mumbai : the indian institute of management-bangalore has appointed one of its old boys to its board . rajiv maliwal , founder and managing partner of sabre partners , has been appointed to the board of directors of indian institute of management , bangalore .  rajiv maliwal is the founder and managing partner of sabre partners , a private equity firm which has managed over $500 million focusing on financial services , healthcare and infrastructure . he is renowned for his pioneering work in the successful implementation of a unique private sector solution for ailing and stressed financial institutions in india ( eg. centurion bank , lord krishna bank etc . ) . more recently , he is also spearheading the growth of healthcare in india through some innovative financing structures .  prior to founding sabre partners in 2002 , rajiv was with standard chartered plc as the global head of private equity . during his tenure he was involved in a $300m fund raising , established a global team and invested internationally with a focus on financial services and technology .  he has jp morgan ( singapore ) and set up the investment banking and securities businesses for them in south east asia and india . he managed the jvs for both these firms in india with domestic partners led many m&amp;a , equity and debt underwritings and originated several private equity investments .  an mba from indian institute of management , bangalore in 1985 , rajiv maliwal holds a bachelor of engineering ( mechanical engineering ) from bits , pilani . he was also awarded the distinguished alumni award of iim- bangalore in 2012 .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  choose your reason below and click on the submit button . this will alert our moderators to take action  name  reason for reporting :  foul language  defamatory  inciting hatred against a certain community  out of context/spam  others  your reason has been submitted to the admin .  the indian institute of management-bangalore has appointed one of its old boys to its board . rajiv maliwal , appointed to the board of directors of indian institute of management , bangalore .