Hydro projects causing degeneration of hill ecology: CAG
http://hillpost.in/2013/06/hydro-projects-causing-degeneration-of-hill-ecology-cag-june-5-is-world-environment-day/84583/

hydro projects causing degeneration of hill ecology : cag  shimla : the hydropower projects in himachal pradesh -- in private and public sectors -- are not only gobbling up forests but also damaging natural resources , the comptroller and auditor general of india ( cag ) has found .  the compensatory afforestation by the state is highly deficient as 58 percent of the test-checked hydropower projects reported no afforestation at all , the cag said in its recent report .  it pointed out that lack of re-greening of hills poses severe hazards both to natural ecology and stabilisation of hill slopes .  a total of 559 run-of-river hydro projects with an aggregate generation capacity of 10,131 mw were allotted to independent power producers from november 1991 to january 2012 .  till march last year , says the cag , 55 projects have been commissioned and the remaining are under execution .  an audit found that 12 companies have deposited the funds for compensatory afforestation , but it was not carried out at all in seven projects .  " out of , while in three projects it was between 64 and 81 percent , " it said .  the plantation survival in barseu and manglad projects was 90 and 100 percent , whereas it was between 40 and 60 percent in the malana-i , luni-ii and upper awa projects .  the malana-i project , which has already been commissioned , had acquired 61 hectares of forest area in kullu district for the project .  " the company got clearance to axe 990 trees . as compensatory afforestation , the government was supposed to plant 529,000 saplings ( on behalf of the company ) but only 336,500 were planted , " it said .  the company had deposited rs.143.37 lakh with the government for compensatory afforestation in november 1998 .  the plantation , said the cag , was highly deficient , posing severe hazards both for natural ecology and stabilisation of hill slopes .  it also found that one power producer -- manjhal in chamba district -- out of the 16 operational projects selected for test-check was not ensuring minimum flow of water downstream .  the ensure minimum flow of 15 percent water downstream throughout the year , including the lean season , from november to march , for survival of aquatic flora and fauna and riparian rights .  according to the cag , in three -- manjhal , sarbari-ii and tarella-iii -- commissioned projects there was no provision of real-time continuous water outflow measurement , which is mandatory as per the government 's hydropower policy .  the cag asked the government to ensure that hydropower projects do not result in an adverse impact on the environment .  according to forest department estimates , over 9,000 hectares of forest land have so far been diverted to non-forest use . of this , 7,000 hectares were used for hydel projects .  environmentalist r.s. negi , who heads the him lok jagriti manch , a people 's movement against upcoming hydro projects in kinnaur district , told : " the hydro projects are destructive not only to the rivers but also to traditional water channels . "  " before allocating any new project in the entire himalayan region that falls in seismic zone-iv and carrying capacity and cumulative impact assessment of the projects , " he said .  you may also like  2 comments  it is still a high time for us to rethink on our policy on hydro power exploitation in himachal.blind following is always a worst . hence in the best interest of state and its environment , stoppage is the requirement of time . it is also a fact that we have completely failed in re-plantation drive , what soever figure , we may put forward .  the cag report makes precisely the same points and voices the same concerns/ recommendations that were made in the shukla committee report submitted to the hp high court in june 2010 . the state govt. had , under pressure from the hydro-power lobby , predictably opposed the findings of the report , but it appears that the matter has made no headway ( towards implementation ) even in the high court.the central govt. too is sleeping over it . we are running out of time . is it time to file another pil on the basis of the cag report this both the centre and the state ?