Now, a repellent spray to minimise man-animal conflict
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/national/now-a-repellent-spray-to-minimise-mananimal-conflict/article4785000.ece

now , a repellent spray to minimise man-animal conflict  after struggling for decades , relief came their way when gobichettipalayam-based provimi products introduced herboliv+ , a plant growth promoter and wild animal repellent spray to solve the man-animal conflict .  g.v. sudarshan , director of provimi says the formula helps control intrusion of wild animals into agricultural fields and also aids crop growth . the forest college and research institute at mettupalayam is testing the product .  business line , meanwhile , spoke to a couple of farmers who have been using this spray for about a month now .  velusamy , a small farmer , residing at mundirimudaku , odanthurai panchayat in mettupalayam says not a day passes without intrusion of some animal or the other into his field . velusamy 's farm is located just about 1,500 feet away from the ooty hills . " it is very close to the forest . i have been living and cultivating banana in this 2.5 acre plot for more than 8 years now . intrusion of animals such as deer , bison and . they just stray from the forest anytime of the day and pull out the plantlet . we use sticks , beat drums to ward them off . the area is fenced by electric lines to ensure that these animals do not invade the cultivated area . we have to keep a watch though as they tend to break such barriers easily , " says velusamy  his observation of the elephants ' routine was more interesting . " elephants cross this stretch anywhere between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. and retrace their way back into the forest between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m . if they cross the electric fence and enter the farm , there 's no way one can save the crop . they will attack and destroy tens of hundreds of plants within minutes . they usually invade the field only when the plant is five-six months old or is nearing the flowering stage . the sound of drums , crackers and the sight of fire keep them off the field . interestingly , elephants follow the same path . "  when asked how he manages has engaged two security guards . " we do not get agriculture labourers here and the cost of engaging security guards is even more expensive . i pay rs 500/day , for keeping a watch on elephants , and such guards are difficult to come by these days , " adds velu .  labour shortage  nagaraj , who lives about 2 km away from the foothills at jallimedu , cultivates vegetables . " it 's not easy . there is a huge shortage of agriculture labour in this part and we have to protect our farmlands from animal intrusion as well . many of them have given their land on lease or sold and moved out , ' said this farmer .  " intrusion of monkeys is very high here , " says srinivasan , a farmer in kalar .  these farmers and a few others feel that this product should help them keep the wild animals at bay . " it is not poisonous . the strong odour keeps them off . for now , this seems a best remedy .. after years of struggle , says srinivasan