WSN Releases Risk Management Solutions through ArcGIS Online
http://www.directionsmag.com/pressreleases/wsn-releases-risk-management-solutions-through-arcgis-online/333468

wsn releases risk management solutions through arcgis online  esri announces that wall street network ( wsn ) has released the first of a dozen risk management solutions , based on arcgis online , called xtremegis . xtremegis provides access to information including global tropical cyclone event and forecast data from accuweather , satellite imagery from i-cubed , and wsn 's knowledge management software . it can be used to discover and analyze hazards located around assets such as office buildings , retail and manufacturing sites , distribution centers , and the supply chain .  " the bottom line is you do n't have to be a meteorologist to understand a hazard or a rocket scientist to understand property risk , " says kristina mazelis , chief operating officer at wsn . " we do the science and analytics assessing risk and provide access to it through arcgis online , giving everyone the opportunity to assess their own risk . "  the solutions provide users with insight into the full life cycle of risk , from mitigation before an event occurs , during the actual available now are the following :  xtreme tropical cyclone -- historical data and real-time storm tracking capabilities just in time for the beginning of the 2013 cyclone season  xtreme proximity -- allows users to look up perils , such as flood zones , history of high-frequency windstorms , terror risks , and more , that are located next to their business assets  xtreme hazard event provider ( hep ) -- a hazard event notification system that alerts users to events that occur in areas they specify  traditionally , risk management is an expensive process and understood by only a few in an organization who have a high level of knowledge about risk modeling . these subscription-based solutions deliver content through arcgis online so users can do the following :  create maps  add additional layers of information such as maps of offices , service territories , and customers  use the information in other desktop applications including arcgis  share maps with others via the internet and mobile devices  " this is a real game changing , disruptive technology , " says simon thompson , when a catastrophic event occurs , everything shuts down . xtremegis gives businesses the advantage of insight so they can take control of their own activities and rethink where and how they grow . "  to learn more about the xtremegis solutions , visit www.xtremegis.com . for more information on how the arcgis platform helps organizations around the world manage risk , visit esri.com/insurance .  about esri since 1969 , esri has been giving customers around the world the power to think and plan geographically . the market leader in gis , esri software is used in more than 300,000 organizations worldwide including each of the 200 largest cities in the united states , most national governments , more than two-thirds of fortune 500 companies , and more than 7,000 colleges and universities . esri applications , running on more than one million desktops and thousands of web and enterprise servers , provide the backbone for the world 's mapping and spatial analysis . esri is the only vendor that provides complete technical solutions for desktop , mobile , server , and internet platforms . visit us at www.esri.com by esri , arcgis , www.esri.com , and @esri.com are trademarks , registered trademarks , or service marks of esri in the united states , the european community , or certain other jurisdictions . other companies and products mentioned herein may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective trademark owners .