Salman Khan's 2002 hit-and-run case history
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/salman-khan-2002-hit-and-run-case-history-mumbai-court/1/292146.html

a mumbai session court on friday directed actor salman khan to appear again on july 24 for framing of charges in the 2002 mumbai hit-and-run case .  superstar salman khan who just wrapped up the hyderabad schedule of his film mental on time on july 16 returned to mumbai the next day . the actor presented himself before a mumbai sessions court to face trial in the 2002 hit-and-run case that killed one person and injured four . presenting the history of the case.the latest  a mumbai session court on friday directed actor salman khan to appear again on july 24 for framing of charges in the 2002 mumbai hit-and-run case . the actor had earlier reached the court , accompanied by his two sisters arpita and alvira to face trial for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and not death by negligence in the mumbai hit-and-run case . salman will now again appear in court , coming wednesday .  how salman got into trouble  on the night of september 28 , 2002 , superstar salman khan 's land cruiser allegedly ran over on hill road in bandra , killing one and injuring four others . witnesses have alleged that the actor was driving the vehicle , but the actor has denied the charge .  hit and run/accident  past media reports have suggested that salman khan had fled the spot after the accident and surrendered to police after eight hours . his father , noted bollywood scriptwriter salim khan has vehemently denied that salman khan fled the scene and has repeatedly expressed displeasure known over his son 's " accident case " being referred to as " hit and-run case . "  drunk or not  according to medical reports submitted in the case the actor was under the influence of alcohol . chemical analysis report filed in 2007 had showed that salman had 62 mg alcohol in his blood on the night of accident .  more serious charge  last month on june 24 the sessions court had ruled that the offense of ' culpable homicide not amounting to murder ' under ipc holds against salman khan in a 2002 hit-and-run case and rejected his appeal challenging a magistrate an open court , sessions judge ub hejib ruled that salman would face the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and will face trial for the same . appeal rejected  advancing his argument against invoking the grave charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder ( section 304 part ii ipc ) , salman 's counsel ashok mundargi pleaded that the magistrate 's order was " erroneous , bad in law and contrary to evidence on record . " the counsel had said that the magistrate had failed to appreciate that the actor had neither the intention to kill people , nor the knowledge that his rash and negligent driving would kill a person and cause injury to four others . public prosecutor shankar erande while opposing salman 's appeal said the magistrate had rightly invoked the charge of culpable homicide as he had committed a serious offence .  the punishment  if convicted under the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder the actor might have to face up to 10 years of imprisonment . the actor was earlier tried by a magistrate under a 304 a of ipc ) . being convicted under this provision would have resulted in a maximum two years of imprisonment for the actor .  the dragging case  abha singh , a social activist and a lawyer had filed a private complaint before the bandra metropolitan court pointing out loop holes in the police probe and alleged that the police investigators were trying to shield the actor . singh alleged that because of police negligence , the hit-and-run case in court has been dragging on for the last 11 years . a mumbai daily had pointed out that the cops had failed to serve summons to the actor in the 2002 hit-and-run case since november 2012 , claiming he was not in town.bodyguard who tried to shield salman  earlier , according to reports in the media salman 's then police bodyguard ravindra patil had tried to shield the actor by telling the police that it was he who was driving the car . 64 witnesses testified before the court , and ultimately it was proved that it was salman who was driving the vehicle . ravindra patil who own statement . patil was reported to have died under mysterious circumstances in 2007 .  compensating the victims  the bombay high court , while hearing a pil on october 7 , 2002 , had directed salman khan to pay rs 19 lakh as compensation to the victims within two weeks . this included rs 10 lakh to the family of the deceased . the khan family had got the compensation amount deposited with the court but according to reports they were not able to receive it at the time due to lack of proper identification .  return my car  it was also reported that salman khan had requested the court that his landcruiser be returned , but the trial court refused .  mental schedule not disrupted  the trial in this case could have disrupted the actor 's schedule . the actor was shooting in hyderabad for his brother sohail khan directed film mental . sources say the hyderabad schedule was over on july 16 . both the brothers were recently photographed returning from hyderabad on july 17 . the other case  in 1998 , in rajasthan during the shooting of sooraj barjatya 's hum saath saath hain . the black buck is an endangered species and hunting it is a crime under the wild life protection act . saif ali khan and tabu were also accused of the crime . all three actors are currently out on bail .