The business of unsold books
http://www.thehindu.com/books/the-business-of-unsold-books/article4931665.ece

remainder books , the unsold editions of books from indian and international publishers , are in huge demand  there are books on tables , books in cartons and books on the floor . they come in every size , shape and colour ; hard-bound , paper-backed and leather-wrapped . some with cracking spines and others with yellowing pages , and still others spanking new . the walls around stand unadorned and there 's no air-conditioned comfort ; no cozy cafeteria on the side nor sofas to sink into .  what there is though , are books by the lakhs -- mostly unsold editions from indian and international publishers -- stretching across all genres and sold at generous discounts . kochi hosts two such year-round book sales -- blossoms on press club road and kerala book house on chittoor road .  reselling in bulk  " when books grow old or remain unsold for long at bookstores , they are sent back to publishers and distributors , who resell them in bulk to the unorganised book market . of the english books market in kerala explains abdul latheef who has run blossoms for the last seven years . with indian publishers , their leftovers can be bought at daryaganj in delhi , where most have their headquarters , while international publishers ship their books by the container to port cities such as mumbai or chennai , says k.m. basheer who owns kerala book house .  many book store owners in kerala are veering toward this market because there 's a rich supply , and maintenance overheads are few says basheer . " it 's difficult to sustain a bookshop these days because people buy brand new books at lower prices on online portals which even home deliver , " he says . thus the biggest advantage remainder-book sales have is their discounted prices . " we only need to cover transportation costs and the price paid to the publisher . so we are able to offer up to 70 per cent discount on old editions and up to 20 per cent even on recently-published books . people come to us because they know they can find a decent quality of books and a wide variety one of the challenges such sales face is display space says basheer . since books are bought and sold in bulk , there 's a massive stock with the owner always , and exhibiting it requires large halls . besides his permanent space on chittoor road , he once had a branch on warriam road which he had to close down due to high rent . " nowadays , i take places on lease for a few weeks at a time , display over five lakh books at once and then move to another venue , " he says . he is currently hosted at a hall beside kalyan silks . the other difficulty is in procuring manpower observes latheef . " we need people who are familiar with books , can sort them into the right genres and can pick out the right book in the right edition when customers enquire , " says latheef .  the upside to the business of unsold books is the wide variety possible since the focus is n't only on latest releases . it 's therefore common to find four or five editions to the latest , often with a cover featuring the book 's movie version . while basheer stocks his books in piles by price , ranging upwards from rs. 20 per book , blossoms categorises them by genre . there 's everything from literary fiction to commercial fiction , travel , art , film , photography , academic discourse , biography , comics and children 's books . " our popular sections are the art and cinema ones because there are many international works here which otherwise would be unavailable at stores or exorbitantly priced , " says latheef . running a book sale needs one to be clued in to the current trends in the market ; latest works by authors and new editions released by publishers says latheef . " i keep updated constantly and i stock according to customer requests , " he adds .  his clientele are primarily youth shopping on a budget or professionals and technicians in the film and photography fields looking to update their skills . there are also many book collectors searching for rare or first editions , as well as those nor basheer stock textbooks though , but both supply fiction and nonfiction to school and private libraries , as well as coffee shops and cafes .  both sales also function as lending-libraries of a sort since they buy back their books at 50 per cent the price sold . " that way , readers can take however long they 'd like with a book , without paying fines for overshooting due-dates . their ' reading cost ' is hence lower , " says latheef . he adds , " for a small city like kochi , the size of the reading population is at par with large metros . it 's that that keeps us going . "  this is the first of three short stories by seetha ravi on the musical trinity -- syama sastri , tyagaraja and muthuswami dikshitar . the stories have been translated by prabha sridevan , former judge , m ... ?