SmartPorn: India's other mobile revolution
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/regions/asia-pacific/india/130724/smart-porn-india-mobile-rape

smartporn : india 's other mobile revolution  that smut flood is sparking a serious debate about the impact on society .  " we 're raising up an army of rapists in india by not warring against internet pornography , " abishek clifford , who runs a moral awareness program for indian colleges called rescue , told globalpost .  he 's not the only one concerned .  since the december gang rape of a delhi student , who died from internal injuries sustained during the attack , the entire country has been wrestling with what many regard as a spike in sexual violence .  although possessing or watching porn is permitted in india , distributing it is illegal . and now , the authorities are moving to crack down on web porn -- even as in many other areas the country grows more liberal in its attitude toward sex .  flood of free porn  ancient india had no qualms about graphic depictions of sex . consider the luxurious illustrations of the kama sutra , or the carvings on the 1,000-year-old temples .  but , until recently , modern india has been decidedly more prudish .  in the ' 80s and ' 90s , films with lascivious dialogue and a few shots of buxom women in wet saris were considered softcore porn . bollywood did n't even dare show kissing until a few years back . and the country 's first " real " porn star was a cartoon .  now , suddenly , affordable smartphones have put hardcore porn in the palms of millions .  according to statistics from manwin holding , the luxembourg-based owner of the world 's largest free porn sites , youporn and pornhub , india 's 150 million-odd internet users visit those two sites alone at a clip of around 2 million hits per day . the presence of indian-themed content ( " naked desi babes in bath " is one of the few printable titles ) and advertisements confirms that the multibillion dollar industry has taken note .  meanwhile , reported incidents of rape have nearly doubled since 1995 , when the internet first came to india , according to the national spiked 12 percent since cheap smart phones hit the market two years ago , although it 's impossible to parse how much of that increase stems from the greater willingness of victims to come forward .  to some , that correlation signals causality .  " pornography is en masse perverting the lifestyles and behaviors of young people in india , " said rescue 's clifford , citing rescue surveys in which college students confessed that each week they watch an average of two hours of " violent porn . "  more porn , more rape ?  the media and the authorities , too , have been quick to draw a connection between the increased availability of pornography and the apparent increase in sexual violence .  a recent article in india today , a leading weekly magazine , drew attention to the prevalence of rape fantasy porn and other violent clips at local " download centers " -- kiosks where entrepreneurs illegally load porn onto customers ' thumb drives and memory chips . and it cited google adwords statistics to point out that " mobile phones were search with the keyword ' rape ' over the past year " and " search keywords included ' indian girls raped ' , ' raping video ' , ' raping stories ' , ' raped in public ' , ' little girl raped ' , ' raping mom ' , ' father raping daughter ' and ' raped to death ' . "  in june , the department of telecommunications banned 39 websites , all hosted abroad , that allow users to share pornographic content .  and this month , a parliamentary committee was formed to explore ways to block internet pornography altogether in response to the latest of many petitions that have demanded a blanket ban .  but is the flood of smut really to blame for an epidemic of violent gang rapes ?  if so , india may not exactly be an outlier .  the country 's 4.1 million monthly searches for the keyword " rape " amounts to one search per month for every 30 internet users . in comparison , us mobile users also searched for " rape " an average of key phrases like " women getting raped , " " men being raped " and " kids being raped . " that 's one search per month per 60 internet users .  for both countries , those figures include not only the apparently heinous phrases highlighted by india today , but also every search for rape counseling , rape news reports , rape crisis centers and so on . in india 's case , for instance , there were an average of around 100,000 searches for " raping video " ( or one search per month for every 1500 internet users ) . the average was 246,000 searches for " delhi gang rape " and 90,500 for " rape victims . "  incidentally , google indicates that it removes suspected " commercial " and child pornography from its products , and reports criminal activity to the authorities . a quick search suggests the rape-related search terms do n't return graphic pictures and videos -- although a disturbing proportion of the youtube results for " rape " are clips from mainstream indian movies .  after years of debate , at odds over whether pornography turns men into rapists . bangalore-based neuroscientist sai gaddam , co-author of " a billion wicked thoughts , " argues that there is precious little data to support most of the claims about the disastrous impact of ubiquitous web porn .  " we found that they 're inversely correlated , " gaddam told globalpost . " the more easily available pornography is , the less the incidence of sexual crimes . "