Minnie Driver's war hero dad cheated on wife with her mother
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/english/hollywood/news/Minnie-Drivers-war-hero-dad-cheated-on-wife-with-her-mother/articleshow/21306683.cms

Minnie Driver 's war hero dad cheated on wife with her mother  Minnie Driver 's father cheated on his wife with the Hollywood actress ' mother .  ANI Jul 24 , 2013 , 05.43 PM IST  Minnie Driver  Minnie Driver 's father cheated on his wife with the Hollywood actress ' mother .  The 43-year-old star appeared in BBC 's hit genealogy show ' Who Do You Think You Are ? ' to find out about her war hero father , who died only two years ago .  The reason for her appearance was simple , as in the 13 years they were together , her mother Gaynor Millington was her father Ronnie Driver 's mistress , while he led a double life with a wife and another daughter , the Mirror reported .  Ronnie was so secretive about his past that Minnie never met her paternal grandparents nor did she see an image of theirs .  Minnie said that her parents met in 1962 and lived together for 13 years .  However , she said that the time Ronnie was married to someone else and had another family .  She was also thrilled to discover that Ronnie had an older half brother , Leslie Stancliffe , who was an actor like her .  He died in 1947 , but his daughter , Minnie 's half cousin Jean is alive and well and while chatting up with her on the phone , she learnt that there is an image in existence of her grandfather Charles - which Jean sent to Minnie at her home in the Hollywood hills .  She also got to know through the show that Ronnie threw a WWII bravery medal , as he thought he was undeserving of it .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Read more  Most Popular  The external affairs ministry on Wednesday advised Indian students seeking admission in two California-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the US government on the issue .