Coromandel Infotech eyes Rs 150 crore turnover in FY'14
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tech/tech-news/Coromandel-Infotech-eyes-Rs-150-crore-turnover-in-FY14/articleshow/22228821.cms

The Chennai-headquartered firm posted revenues of Rs 120 crore in 2012-13 helped by growth in the small and medium businesses ( SMBs ) in oil and gas sector in the US , manufacturing in Middle East and banking in South Africa , among others .  Besides , the firm 's expertise in solution frameworks like asset management , asset visibility , remote data capture and transmission , trace &amp; tracking will further help the company in achieving the target , he added .  " We will remain focused on verticals like process manufacturing , mining , energy &amp; utility , infrastructure and logistics for the next 6-8 quarters in the US , India , Middle East and South Africa , " Mishra said .  Coromandel Infotech , which is finacially backed by N Srinivasan-led India Cements , drives a major part of its revenues from the US followed by India &amp; Middle East and South Africa .  It employs 400 consultants in India and 100 in the US . On outlook , Mishra said : " We are seeing SMBs in the US Also the banking vertical in Africa is a growing area . Besides , manufacturing in India as well as the Middle East is good . This is where we feel Coromandel will get its growth from . "  He said the company is on the lookout for the right acquisition in the US and could acquire a firm in this financial year .  Coromandel had acquired Silicon Valley-based IT services company Inirus LLC in 2010 to compliment service offerings and strengthen presence in North America .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @