Protest against illegal resorts on coasts of Vasai taluka in Maharashtra
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Protest-against-illegal-resorts-on-coasts-of-Vasai-taluka-in-Maharashtra/articleshow/22224180.cms

protest against illegal resorts on coasts of vasai taluka in maharashtra  the vasai youth congress along with various social organisations protested against the mushrooming of illegal resorts along the coasts of kalamb-rajodi in vasai taluka .  tnn sep 2 , 2013 , 01.04 pm ist  mumbai : the vasai youth congress along with various social organisations protested against the mushrooming of illegal resorts along the coasts of kalamb-rajodi in vasai taluka . the resorts are used by couples and commercial sex workers .  a resort owner of ' maldives resort ' in kalamb of nalasopara ( west ) was arrested for allegedly dumping the bodies of a young couple joseph salve ( 21 ) and priyanka mohite ( 21 ) in an isolated spot in suncity of vasai . the bodies were found in the resort on august 12 . the owner ramesh nijai ( 52 ) had not made any diary entry of the couple 's stay in the resort . the owner , a local villager , had illegally constructed the resort on his plot . the rooms were hired by entertained their customers in the resort . the youth congress and social organisations demanded that the resorts be demolished . interestingly , the resorts are owned and run by villagers , mostly from the fishing community . the resorts are occupied on week days when students , young couples and commercial sex workers hire the rooms for a few hours .  the vasai tehsildar assured the protestors that the illegal resorts would be razed down .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  read more advised indian students seeking admission in two california-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the us government on the issue .