Indian Airpower Afloat
http://www.idsa.in/idsacomments/IndianAirpowerAfloat_vkapur_020913

You are here  Indian Airpower Afloat  The first indigenously designed and built aircraft carrier , INS Vikrant , was launched on August 12 , 2013 . While still several years from being operational , the launch of the carrier , which has been designed to carry 36 fixed wing fighter aircrafts , comprising a mix of MiG-29K and the indigenous LCA ( naval variants ) in addition to Ka-31 AEW and ALH helicopters , will provide air cover to Indian Navy ( IN ) vessels . The launching of the hull of INS Vikrant with the power plant and generators integrated is the first step in the further development of the ship , particularly the weapon systems . This work is likely to consume the better part of two years before the ship can join the operational fleet . Only the UK , the US , France , and Russia have demonstrated the ability to design and build such ships . Reportedly , the second Indigenous Aircraft Carrier ( IAC-2 ) is under design already .  One particular feature of the aircraft carrier is like the US super carriers , for the launch of the fixed wing aircraft . Instead , the bow of the ship sports a ski-jump configuration , in which the aircraft rolling down the very short available runway on take off is lofted into the air like a skier.1 This will impose limitations on the type of aircraft operable . The IAC-2 is likely to have catapults for aircraft launch .  The importance of air power at sea can not be overstated especially since the Battle of Coral Sea ( May 4 -- 8 , 1942 ) , in which two opposing fleets fought a major sea battle through the use of aircrafts launched from their carriers . Replacement of the battleship of yore with aircraft carriers , as the new capital ship , has been a strategic choice for the navies of the world since then .  INS Viraat , currently the sole Indian aircraft carrier , operates British-made Sea Harrier2 fighters in addition to helicopters of various types . INS Vikrant 's MiG-29K fighters are modern fourth generation fighters that will provide the IN with state-of-the-art air ( BVR ) as well as Within Visual Range ( WVR ) missiles backed by advanced airborne radar and Infra-red search and Track ( IRST ) systems and excellent agility . The MiG-29K also has an anti-ship and anti-land target strike capability , which would help in vastly increasing the reach , safety and lethality of the fleets at sea .  The IN has fielded an aircraft carrier since 1961.3 The original INS Vikrant served from 1961 to 1997.4 Aspiring to field at least two carrier battle groups ( CBGs ) , one each for the western and eastern seaboards , the IN negotiated for induction of the erstwhile Soviet carrier , the deactivated Admiral Gorshkov , while also commencing to design an indigenous aircraft carrier . The contract for its transfer of Admiral Gorshkov involved extensive refurbishment by Russia . The refurbishment has faced extensive delays and cost escalations , though the vessel is reportedly now nearing readiness .  The progress in the development of INS Vikrant indicates that India 's shipbuilding capabilities are maturing towards self-reliance in design and development of high-end naval vessels . At the nuclear powered submarine are complex . By 2020 , INS Vikrant should be ready for operational deployment and could be reasonably be expected to be joined in a few years by its sister ships that may include further refinements over the original design . Both INS Vikramaditya and INS Vikrant are expected to carry MiG-29K fighters , sourced from Russia , to be joined later by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited 's ( HAL 's ) Tejas ( naval variant ) .  By the 2030s , the IN should be able to field three CBGs giving it the capability to protect India 's interests at locations far removed from the coast . The increasingly " designed and made in India " nature of the IN 's fleets should provide strategic and tactical flexibility through total ownership of critical technologies and capabilities . Air power afloat as an integral part of the Indian naval fleets should provide these vessels assured air defence and fire power against surface targets at sea and on land .  The IN has long aspired for a true blue water capability and the aircraft carrier project is a in the project from the design stage onwards at the Cochin shipyard thus giving it total ownership . Also , the time and cost overruns in the indigenous aircraft carrier project are relatively minor . The Admiral Gorshkov 's refurbishment by Russian shipyards , with several decades of experience , stands as a comparison.5 The INS Vikrant is the lead ship of its class and future vessels of the same type , if built , should benefit from the from the construction process .  India has major maritime interests . These arise from the fact that most of India 's foreign trade is carried by sea . India 's energy imports also come by sea . Therefore , it is important for the country to be able to provide security along these sea lanes of communication ( SLsOC ) . Moreover , with an expanding economy , India requires to be able to access raw materials sourced from other countries along the Indian Ocean rim as well as further away . Thus India must be able to freely access the SLsOC to these regions . The Indian Ocean hosts some and the Straits of Malacca . In international waters it is critical to have capabilities to protect national assets , particularly the sea passage choke points .  Naval fleets have the ability to stay on station for long and carry considerable integral firepower . An aircraft carrier bolsters the potency of naval fleets by deploying fighter aircrafts that can apply long distance power from their carrier . Carriers can provide intelligence , reconnaissance and other essential support functions as well . A carrier battle group thus enhances the power projection capability of its fleet manifold .  The INS Vikrant signifies the coming of age of India 's ability to design and build major warships in the country and much to cheer for the indigenous defence industry . Moreover , it indicates that the IN is close to achieving capabilities to field forces at long distances in order to safeguard India 's maritime interests .  Views expressed are of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the IDSA or of the Government of India .  1 . The upwards momentum imparted to the aircraft as very short available runway and , therefore , sub-optimal achieved speed due to the short take off run . The short take off run would result in lower speed than required for take off . However , the ski jump lofts the aircraft upwards ; the additional height so gained allows the aircraft to build up adequate speed for a safe climb out .  2 . The Sea Harrier is an excellent aircraft with vertical landing and take off capability . However , its unique design restricts its radius of action , especially in vertical take off mode . Moreover , it was designed in the late 1950s and 1960s . Hence , its design has imitations in performance compared with modern fighters of later design .  3 . India bought the under-construction HMS Herculese Majestic class aircraft carrier from UK in 1957 . Upon its completion in 1961 , it was commissioned into the IN as INS Vikrant .  4 . INS Vikrant , which had commenced being built in 1943 and was finally completed in 1961 , came to be decommissioned in 1997 . IN bought INS Viraat to replace the first INS Vikrant . The Viraat also boasts a ski jump configuration and came equipped to operate the Sea Harrier fighters in addition to helicopters .  5 . Initially , the Admiral Gorshkov was to be given free to India with India paying $800 million for its refurbishment and another $1 billion for MiG-29 fighters and other equipment . The final cost is in the range of $2.33 billion . Initial entry into service date was to be October 2008 with delivery finally delayed to October 2013.