Talks of 'fuel curfew' fire a debate
http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/talks-of-fuel-curfew-fire-a-debate/article5085221.ece

Consumers in State fear inconvenience without 24-hour petrol pumps  At the 24-hour Dilkush petrol bunk at Nadakkavu here , Balakrishnan M. , fuel attendant , is getting ready to spend a lonely Sunday night at the pump , with just his mobile phone for company .  The bunk , one of the three which operate round the clock in the city , usually sees busy nights , with trucks , cars loaded with people half-asleep and school buses rolling in to fill their tanks .  But if the Petroleum Ministry has its way , all this will come to a stop .  " I heard that the Ministry wants to stop 24-hour petrol pumps in cities to save petrol . Have they already started doing it ? " Mr. Balakrishnan says stopping in his tracks while rushing between vehicles waiting to fill up .  Proposal  The Ministry has mooted a proposal to stop the functioning of 24-hour petrol bunks in cities between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. as an austerity measure to check the fall of the rupee and to lessen This is nothing short of nonsense . Instead of controlling the fuel prices , the government comes up with such ideas . If you need fuel , how will the timing of when you get your fuel curb the demand ?  Use not to come down  This measure , if it becomes a reality , will not stop people from using petrol . It will only cause inconvenience , " Mohammed Riyaz , a businessman who just zipped into the bunk in his SUV , says .  Consumers say that changing bunk timings will result in practical inconveniences , especially in Tier-3 cities where the roads are narrow and traffic is heavy during peak hours .  Petrol bunk employees say that at nights , most of their customers are people travelling long distances , school buses , trucks and even ambulances .  Changing the time will only result in long queues .  " Financial discipline can not be attained by regulating bunk timings . Besides , such contrived means of regulation will lead to fuel hoarding and black-marketing . This kind of curfew on fuel in Tier-3 cities where there are only a few 24-hour bunks , " P.T.S. Unni , president , Calicut Chamber of Commerce , says .  " Not everybody keeps their fuel tanks full ; if there is a personal emergency at home , this so-called austerity measure may prove fatal , " Valsala Narayanan , a retired teacher , says .  this is a crazy act to stop 24 hrs pump , there are people who work in night and travelers moving in night may require petrol to travel in night , in that case it is necessity for them . if you cut the working time of petrol pump then are you sure the economy will come up , no stop all this curfew , band , harthal etc .. where the economy gets blocked and let people work and earn .