Film on PT Usha's life and career?
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/off-the-field/Film-on-PT-Ushas-life-and-career/articleshow/22373591.cms

film on pt usha 's life and career ?  india 's sprint legend p t usha 's life is set to get a big screen treatment after biopic " bhaag milkha bhaag " on ' flying sikh ' milkha singh .  pti sep 6 , 2013 , 08.01 pm ist  " somebody approached my husband to do a film based on my life and career . he did n't say yes or no to the perso ... read more  ranchi : india 's sprint legend p t usha 's life is set to get a big screen treatment after biopic " bhaag milkha bhaag " on ' flying sikh ' milkha singh .  " somebody approached my husband to do a film based on my life and career . he did n't say yes or no to the person , " said usha .  however , the athlete from kerala said the time is yet to come to make a film on her .  " the film on milkha singh released at the right time . a film on my am still into athletics , " she said .  indicating her aim to produce a medal winner in the olympics and pinning her hope on k d sindhu to do the wonders which she failed in 1984 los angeles olympics , usha said she liked " bhaag milkha bhaag " directed by rakeysh omprakash mehra .  " i have watched the film . it is good and youngsters will definitely be motivated watching this , " she added .  the movie showed milkha ( essayed by farhan akhtar ) missing a medal for glancing over his shoulders to see who was catching him up .  usha said she failed to clinch a medal in the 1984 olympics as she did not know that a runner should lunge forward while breasting the tape .  " i lost because i did n't bend at the finishing line . it was due to lack of experience and exposure at the international level , " she added .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .