Telangana impasse puts security personnel's future on hold
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/visakhapatnam/Telangana-impasse-puts-security-personnels-future-on-hold/articleshow/22372027.cms

telangana impasse puts security personnel 's future on hold  home department puts issuance of licencese to security agencies on hold due to telangana impasse .  tnn sep 6 , 2013 , 06.31 pm ist  visakhapatnam : official work in the state has come to a grinding halt dashing the hopes of more than four lakh security personnel in about 1,500 private security agencies across the state looking for better employment prospects .  according to sources , private security personnel outnumber the police force in a ratio of 3:1 and provide services in various sectors including industries , educational institutions , commercial establishments , banking sector and residential complexes .  according to andhra pradesh private security association ( appsa ) members , nearly 200 applications are pending with the home department for issuance of licences and nearly 30 of them have undergone necessary verification but are still awaiting approval as the government has gone slow following the recent developments related to the bifurcation of the state .  appsa president c bhaskar reddy said , " the government has totally stopped issuing licences union territory then security agencies will have to take three licences , one each from andhra pradesh , hyderabad and telangana . "  according to managing director of haikor security agencies , k s rao , " some of the private security agencies had even undergone training at ap police academy in hyderabad , but are yet to get the government nod . "  while the private security agency ( regulation ) act 2005 was passed by parliament , the state assembly enacted the ap private security agency ( regulation ) rules in 2008 , following which private security agencies have to obtain licences from the ap special secretary , home , who is the controlling authority for dealing with private security agencies and issuing licences .  however , sources say that the stakeholders were not consulted when the regulations were passed , leading to a plethora of problems for security agencies .  " there were some modifications and changes that were needed and appsa had regularly met with government authorities and we were awaiting necessary changes in the rules , " he said , explaining that verification of credentials of the private security personnel and the owners .  with the telangana issue surfacing , the amendments were put on hold , sources said . " if the government fails to make the necessary amendments , nobody will follow the strict training required for security guards , " bhaskar reddy said .  while the demand for security personnel is witnessing a consistent 20% growth over the last few years , rao said that guards are still treated as unskilled labour even though they are operating the latest gadgets , are involved in monitoring security , including handling of cctvs , and taking care of documentation related to movement of goods in industries . " the amendments will lead to better training and increase self-respect among security personnel . the image of industry will improve as a professional force . this will bring better integration with the home department and the huge force can be gainfully utilised for intelligence gathering and miscellaneous duties , " rao said .  representative of appsa at vizag , uch bhupal verma , said , " once the amendments are made standards will be maintained and we will also be able to assist the police department whenever the need arises . "  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  most popular  the external affairs ministry on wednesday advised indian students seeking admission in two california-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the us government on the issue .