Rupee slide: Should NRIs buy houses in India now?
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/nri/us-canada-news/Rupee-slide-Should-NRIs-buy-houses-in-India-now/articleshow/22372437.cms

it 's great time for nris to invest in real estate , with rupee at all-time low .  related  with the rupee touching all-time lows against the dollar , it appears to be a great time for non-resident indians ( nris ) to remit funds to india for investment . and for most nris , the preferred asset class continues to be real estate . but with the india story looking a little bleak , is property a good investment right now ?  the answer is yes , provided you are patient and cautious . " there has been price correction in india to a certain extent and developers are sitting on huge inventory . however , i estimate that the entire correction will take up to 2 years . so nris must be particular in their investments and pick and choose after due research , " says pankaj kapoor , founder and managing director at liases foras real estate rating &amp; research pvt ltd .  so if you are ready to take that challenging road , here are a few tips to price points  " in the last few months , we have witnessed good closures specifically emerging from nris in cities where value deals are available - namely cities like bangalore , hyderabad , chennai and pune . demand in the mid-income and budget segments is robust across cities where job creation is the key driver . in light of the rupee 's depreciation , we are confident that the it/ites sector will generate further job creation and strengthen the confidence of employees from this sector who are aspiring to buy first or second homes , " says om ahuja - ceo - residential services , jones lang lasalle india .  kapoor adds , " in the mumbai metropolitan region and the national capital region , the secondary market is appearing very attractive . investors are exiting these markets and in the past 15 days , prices have corrected up to 25% in some of the cities . so this might be a good time to pick up investor 's stock . apart from these two key regions , properties in cities like hyderabad and kochi are undervalued and it . "  according to ahuja , the segment where good demand is being witnessed is in the price range of rs 60 lakh to rs 1.5 crore .  investment time horizon and returns  here is where investors need to be patient . " i think the price correction is going to go on for another 2 years , " kapoor explains , " which means investors should expect their asset value to remain more or less flat over the next two years . "  ahuja expects potential returns from current levels to be 10-20% annualized returns over 6-8 years in bangalore , chennai , pune , gurgaon and navi mumbai and 20-30% in hyderabad .  tips to buy the right property  buying property in a market like this can be quite challenging . so here are some parameters that you should look at :  rental yield  rental yield is nothing but the annual rent divided by the property value . " often , buyers tend to ignore rental yield and instead focus only on capital appreciation . however , rental yield is a . when you buy a property , make sure that you can get a rental yield of at least 3.5-4% . an yield of less than that means the property is overvalued , " kapoor explains .  months of inventory  months of inventory is specific to a particular project and is the amount of time the developer takes to sell all available units at the current price .  " an efficient market maintains 8-10 months of inventory . a longer time means that units are not selling at current price and a price correction may happen . today , mumbai and ncr carry 44 months of inventory on an average while bangalore carries 12 months . so this is another aspect you can check to see how inventory is moving , " says kapoor .  location  " right now , a lot of investors are exiting the market so nris might find many investor held property up for sale . however , a lot of these investor properties may be in uninhabited markets where the investor may have purchased the property thinking that the area would need to be wary of such locations , " kapoor explains .  developer track record  " developers ' track record in terms of delivery and quality must be verified before investing . ensure that all approvals in place . attractive advertisements with celebrity endorsements and futuristic promises should not be the only factor for shortlisting the project for investment . nris very often get carried away with good sales pitches and so-called ' premium projects ' . nris should also be very cautious when it comes to investing with developers who are over leveraged and carry risk of project not getting completed on time , " ahuja cautions .  infact , kapoor suggests that now may not be a good time to opt for launch properties . " instead , opting for secondary properties might be a good option at this point . buying secondary properties has its own advantages . apart from being well priced , there is no execution risk as the property is already completed . further , there is no service tax so nris can save on that as well , " he says buying opportunities in the current market , experts suggest that nris tread with caution . do n't jump on deals but do a thorough research before investing .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .