Baby Haldar turned a page, and broke free
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/delhi/Baby-Haldar-turned-a-page-and-broke-free/articleshow/25336489.cms

Baby Haldar turned a page , and broke free  Baby Halder ( 39 ) is a domestic help in Gurgaon . Her humdrum life would have gone unnoticed but for her moving autobiography , ' A Life Less Ordinary ' , published in 2006  TNN Nov 6 , 2013 , 11.59 PM IST  NEW DELHI : Baby Halder ( 39 ) is a domestic help in Gurgaon . Her humdrum life would have gone unnoticed but for her moving autobiography , ' A Life Less Ordinary ' , published in 2006 . Much loved by her readers and domestic workers , Baby accepts the turn in her fortunes with humility . She continues to work for her employer who inspired her to write and lives in a small ' barsati ' with her children , her equanimity disturbed only by the gruesome stories of abuse - the physical and mental exploitation of domestic workers by their employers . For , she is the one that broke free .  " Why do you think these girls and boys come all the way to Delhi pausing to collect her thoughts . " As a child , I faced the same plight . " Baby had a traumatic and " short " childhood . She was born in Kashmir , has lived in Dalhousie and other towns , but belongs to Durgapur in West Bengal . Her father was in the army and her mother left after a tiff with her father . " We got a stepmother and were not cared for . At 13 , my father married me off to a man double my age . I soon gave birth to three children . My childhood was over , " she says . Recollecting cases of underage maids being abused by employers , Baby says a 14-15-year-old is after all a kid . " If a child feels like eating a biscuit and steals some from the employer 's shelf , what crime has she committed ? I remember an employer had banged a kid 's head for eating biscuits , " she recalls .  She had left her abusive husband and moved to Delhi in the late nineties . Initially , she making her work all day with hardly any breaks . They did n't help her get her children admitted to school . Baby left the job and started working in other houses , and was later employed by retired anthropology professor , Prabodh Kumar ( 79 ) .  It 's been 15 years since then . After her first autobiography , Baby has released a second book , ' Eshat Roopantar ' , in Bengali which is also about some important events from her life . She is now working on her third book .  Prabodh Kumar , himself a writer and teacher , had seen something exceptional in her writing . " He had given me a pen and notebook and asked me to write down my story . I was very nervous because I have studied only till Class 7 . I could write only in Bengali . But when I sat down to write , I found it relaxing , " recollects Baby . Prabodh , who is conversant with Bengali , read her first manuscript and said it reminded him of Anne Frank 's ' called his friends to discuss her writing and eventually helped her publish it .  That gave Baby immense confidence . " When my book was published , I would look at myself in the mirror and wonder if it was the same woman who had written the book . My world changed completely , " she said . Baby 's book has been published in 24 languages , including 13 foreign languages .  Today her mentor reads her scripts and often translates them into Hindi . " Everyone who comes to meet her asks me why I helped her publish . The truth is I have long been a teacher , and just like any other teacher , it 's my job to advise . All three of her books are good . I would n't try to get them published if they were n't good , " says Prabodh . Baby calls him ' tatush ' which means father in Polish . She has decided not to leave his side . Baby and her two children feel absolutely at home with Prabodh and Coco , their dog . family may not be as accepting and loving as he is .  Prabodh is not hopeful of a change in the way domestic helps are treated in cities . " It 's sad . There seems to be some kind of a vengeance in the way these kids are treated . I do n't think anything much can be done . It has been happening for long . One can only hope . " But Baby , with a dimpled smile and sparkling eyes , interjects - " Children who are coming from outside have to be aware . They have to be very alert . It 's possible to change . Look at me . I have managed to break free . "  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Most Popular  The external affairs ministry on Wednesday advised Indian students seeking admission in two California-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the US government on the issue .