BCCI's #ThankYouSachin Twitter campaign a big hit with Tendulkar ...
http://gadgets.ndtv.com/social-networking/news/bccis-thankyousachin-twitter-campaign-a-big-hit-with-tendulkar-fans-442454

BCCI 's #ThankYouSachin Twitter campaign a big hit with Tendulkar fans  The BCCI today launched a campaign on Twitter in honour of Sachin Tendulkar , which offers fans across India and the world a rare opportunity to receive a personalised picture of the retiring batsman .  During the ongoing Test series between India and the West Indies , all Twitter users who send an appreciative message for Sachin to the @BCCI handle with the #ThankYouSachin hashtag will instantaneously receive a Tweet from @BCCI with a momentous picture of Sachin , including a personalised message and signature in his handwriting .  " Integration with Twitter and Digigraph offers fans across India and world a rare opportunity to receive a personalised picture of Sachin Tendulkar . The BCCI today announced a new integration with Twitter , one which allows fans worldwide to connect and say thank you to Sachin , like never before , " Board Secretary Sanjay Patel said in a release .  Since the BCCI announced the campaign in a series of Tweets this morning , thousands of fans participated in the initiative .  " @BCCI is encouraging its audiences to connect and tweet multiple times - via the web , TV and more - as there are many different images and messages that fans can avail of . The integration will be live , while the Kolkata and Mumbai Tests are being played . The service is supported by Twitter India and Digigraph.me . Twitter India applauded the service in a blog post this morning , " Patel said .  " Twitter has changed the way our fans , here and everywhere , stay connected to our sport and its personalities .  We at the BCCI have always believed and invested in the power of mobile , digital and social . On the occasion of Sachin Tendulkar 's retirement , we 're delighted to work with Twitter and Digigraph and offer our fans this opportunity to thank Sachin and take home a piece of history . "  India Market Director for Twitter Rishi Jaitly said , " In India , Twitter has brought cricket fans closer to the sport and to cricketers directly and in real time . We and launching this #ThankYouSachin campaign with Digigraph . "  Download the Gadgets 360 app for Android and iOS to stay up to date with the latest tech news , product reviews , and exclusive deals on the popular mobiles.