Kareena revisits her Refugee days in Bhuj
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/Kareena-revisits-her-Refugee-days-in-Bhuj/articleshow/25309618.cms

Kareena revisits her Refugee days in Bhuj  Vaibhavi V Risbood  Kareena Kapoor Khan , who started her career with Refugee , shot in Bhuj , Gujarat , during her debut and now again , after almost 13 years the actress got a chance to revisit her memories with Gori Tere Pyar Mein .  Kareena Kapoor Khan , who started her career with Refugee , shot in Bhuj , Gujarat , during her debut and now again , after almost 13 years the actress got a chance to revisit her memories with Gori Tere Pyar Mein .  On being asked about the location and her memories , Kareena said , " We went to Bhuj to shoot for Gori Tere Pyar Mein and I was so happy to be there . I had shot for Refugee in Bhuj , but now the city has now become a full city . Only two flights used to go to Bhuj in a week , but now there is a flight daily . "  " The entire market area has changed . I was so happy We went back to the same places , wherever we stayed . I took Punit and Imran to the place where I had dinner with Abhishek Bachchan and its called hotel Prince . It 's lovely and we had lot of fun , " concluded Kareena .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Most Popular  The external affairs ministry on Wednesday advised Indian students seeking admission in two California-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the US government on @ @ @