E is for Evolution: The next stage of LTE
http://www.telecomasia.net/content/e-evolution-next-stage-lte

topics  e is for evolution : the next stage of lte  e is for evolution : the next stage of lte  lte has reached mainstream status with over half of the world 's operators already running live commercial lte services - over 420 , according to the latest numbers from the global mobile suppliers association ( gsa ) . but with mobile data traffic continuing to surge exponentially , cellcos are already looking towards the next stage of 4g evolution to meet upcoming demands .  we 've already seen plenty of buzz this year over " 5g , " which is n't a straight technology upgrade but more of a technology concept incorporating multiple technologies that will work together to deliver ubiquitous and dynamic capacity anywhere and anytime to everyone and everything .  but 5g wo n't replace lte , which will evolve in its own right and serve as linchpin holding various 5g technologies together . that 's essential - first-generation lte offers vast improvements in capacity , modulation and spectral efficiency over 3g , but it 's still not enough to boost data rates , add capacity and maximize use of spectrum .  see also  that 's where lte-advanced comes in . a number of operators are already moving to the next stage with lte-a - the gsa counts close to 90 commercially launched lte-a networks as of august 2015 - with a particular focus on carrier aggregation ( ca ) .  but there 's much more to lte-a than that . the 3gpp has number of technological tools in the lte-a toolbox for cellcos to take their networks to the next level . operators that have not yet deployed lte-a or are still in 3.5g mode must take stock of that toolbox as they plan their evolution strategies .  carrier aggregation . of the tools currently available for lte-a , the most talked about at the moment is ca , which allows cellcos to combine up to five release 8-compatible carriers to increase transmission bandwidth and boost downlink data rates . aggregated carriers can be adjacent or non-adjacent at different frequency bands to include fdd and tdd bands . currently up to two bands can be future . release 12 together with cat 9 handsets reportedly supports up to 60 mhz worth of bandwidth aggregation delivering peak downlink rates of up to 450 mbps .  there have already been high-profile deployments and trials of ca technologies in korea , where sk telecom , lg u+ , and kt have launched commercial lte-a with three aggregated carriers . as of august 2015 , the gsa estimates that 20% of all lte operators have already launched lte-a with ca in various combinations .  advanced mimo . today 's lte networks are usually running on 2x2 mimo ( i.e. the base station uses two transmit-and-receive antennas , although current release 8 devices only transmit with one antenna while receiving with two antennas ) . with lte-a , cellcos can deploy higher mimo configurations such as 4x4 and 8x8 , which generally promises increased cell throughput and enhanced user throughput .  higher order modulation . release 12 allows for 256 quadrature amplitude modulation ( qam ) in the downlink , which can increase data rates by a factor of 1.3 compared to 64qam - according to nokia networks 256qam yielded 390 mbps on 40 mhz of aggregated spectrum . ericsson recently announced its own demo in which 256qam was combined with ca to produce peak downlink data speeds of up to 600 mbps , while boosting the uplink modulation scheme from 16qam to 64qam provides a 50% increase in uplink data speeds .  coordinated multi point ( comp ) . this component aims to improve the network performance at the cell edge by leveraging the connectivity of the device to two or more cells and coordinating inter-cell interference . comp can be applied to uplink or downlink transmissions . ul comp is particularly useful for " mass event scenarios " for dense multi-cell deployments ( stadium events , for example ) , with cell edge performance gains for ul transmissions potentially exceeding 200% to 300% , while dl comp can realize performance gains at the cell edge of up to 50% .  heterogeneous networks ( hetnets ) . this involves macro and small cell deployments spread across multiple radio access technologies ( mainly wi-fi , lte , and 3g ) . release 8 supports features to support , interworking and traffic steering between different layers , technologies and domains .