The Business Times - Singapore banks ending year with 15-20 ...
http://www.gov.sg/news/content/the-business-times-singapore-banks-ending-year-with-15-20-stock-price-fall

archive  search this section  keyword  singapore banks are set to close 2015 with their shares down 15-20 per cent from the start of the year , as concerns of slow growth in the republic and the region outweigh hopes of gains from higher interest rates and fee income .  one indicator is bank lending in singapore . the latest figures available for october showed bank lending had fallen from the previous month , dragged by weaker business loans across most segments .  this is the second - and a deeper - contraction following off september , preliminary data from the monetary authority of singapore showed .  loans through the domestic banking unit , which essentially captures lending in all currencies but mainly reflects singapore-dollar lending , stood at s$602 billion in october , down 1.1 per cent from september . in september , bank lending fell 0.8 per cent from august .  given the drag from business lending , bank lending in october from a year ago fell too , reversing from a year-on-year gain in september .  bmi to 5 per cent from 10 per cent in a recent report , over lacklustre economic growth in china and south-east asia .  and bmi does not expect the government to ease up on cooling measures in the property market .  as it is , consumer lending in singapore - while still expanding - has had growth decelerating for some two years now , in tandem with more stringent rules put in place to prevent over-leverage by borrowers enticed by low rates in the post-crisis period .  growth has fallen to a single-digit level ; about three quarters of consumer lending originates from mortgages .  " it remains our assertion that the singaporean government is comfortable with the pace of the property market 's correction so far , and prefers to see affordability improve further before it begins to ease up on its wide-ranging macro-prudential measures aimed at keeping a lid on prices , " bmi said .  still , fitch ratings noted that singapore banks have built buffers by diversifying their business , with core non-interest income roughly 38 per cent of operating income . between 2010 and 2014 .  it also noted that banks have been selective in their lending in china by focusing on state-owned enterprises , large corporates and short-term trade loans . fitch ranked the singapore lenders " stable " in the outlook for both their ratings and the overall sector .  " a key risk lies in banks ' exposure to the commodity sector , which has been hit by low commodity prices . we expect modest risk from this sector , given singapore banks ' diversified loan portfolios and steady asset-quality track record , " it added .  nomura is also sanguine , noting that concerns over the singapore banks ' exposure to china and commodity are overblown . it noted that risks have been manageable , and the credit costs have not been significant .  meanwhile , the three-month singapore interbank offered rate ( sibor ) - of which many floating-rate mortgages are based - has more than doubled this year . " we expect loan growth to be modest at 5 per cent year-on-year but we think earnings could grow at 12 per cent .  both dbs group holdings and united overseas bank ( uob ) have lost about 20 per cent in stock price since the start of the year , with dbs closing at s$16.65 on monday and uob at s$19.44 .  shares in oversea-chinese banking corporation ( ocbc ) - which earlier suffered from an overhang over its wing hang purchase - have fallen about 15 per cent , standing at s$8.82 on monday .  bank stocks have been a drag on the benchmark index , with the straits times index down about 15 per cent since the start of the year .