Singapore Budget 2015: Pritam Singh calls for more scrutiny on Bills ...
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/singapore-budget-2015-pritam-singh-calls-for-more-scrutiny-on-bills-in-parliament

singapore budget 2015 : pritam singh calls for more scrutiny on bills in parliament  singapore - workers ' party ( wp ) mp pritam singh ( aljunied grc ) called for more bills to be sent before a select committee , saying this will raise awareness about legislation .  speaking on tuesday during the debate on the budget for parliament , he said such committees " add much needed civility to the public discourse through the active engagement of issues ... and present a good opportunity for the government to deepen discussions and generate greater public support for laws " .  replying , the leader of the house , dr ng eng hen , said various bills had been sent before such committees over the years .  dr ng , who is also the defence minister , said it was done when the government " judged it necessary and beneficial to refer specific bills to a select committee of mps instead of the committee of the whole parliament after the second reading " .  after bills are debated , parliament will move which mps can go through the bills line by line , and propose changes .  but some bills are referred to select committees - made up of mps who can solicit public feedback , call witnesses , hold hearings and suggest changes to legislation - for extra scrutiny .  the last time a bill went before such a committee was in 2004 , with the building maintenance and management bill .  mr singh argued that mps ask for a bill to be sent before a select committee when they agree with its objectives , but are " concerned about its implementation or its provisions " .  his party and the singapore people 's party , through its non-constituency mp lina chiam , had called for two bills to be committed to a select committee last year , he said .  both times they were rejected as feedback garnered through the government 's feedback channel , reach , was " deemed to have been sufficient " , he said .  he added : " while i accept citizens have an opportunity to engage issues through the 's role in scrutinising bills through select committees is minimised or rendered unnecessary . "  mr singh also said that while participating on select committees would take up more of an mp 's time , this was " rightfully so " .  responding , dr ng noted the various bills that had gone before such committees over the years . he cited nine , including the parliamentary elections amendment bill in 1988 , the goods and services tax bill in 1993 and the advance medical directive bill in 1996 .  this was to allow a smaller group to " further examine the details of implementation for complex issues or seek views from experts and other focus groups on matters related to the bill " he said .  but he added that there are other ways to scrutinise bills and improve on legislation .  government agencies routinely carry out exercises to get feedback from the public before new legislation is introduced in parliament , and the government parliamentary committees also weigh in , he said .  he pointed out that many bills introduced in parliament have the human organ transplant amendment bill in 2009 , the personal data protection bill in 2012 , and most recently , this year 's liquor control supply and consumption bill .  after bills are introduced and debated in parliament , he added , mps can further scrutinise the bills during the third reading when the house moves to become a committee to do it .  citing nominated mp chia yong yong 's proposed change to the wording of the pioneer generation fund bill during such a session last november , dr ng said it was a " positive example of how members in this house have contributed to improve legislation " .  " on the whole these public consultation exercises , second and third reading in this house , select committees for some bills , have allowed the government to obtain views from the members of the public and mps and pass legislation in a timely and responsive manner to meet the needs of our society , " he said .  follow st  the straits times  we have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins the issues , subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles . but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.