Czech PM criticizes country's president after U.S. diplomatic spat
http://www.todayonline.com/world/czech-president-bans-us-ambassador-prague-castle-media

prague - the czech prime minister criticized the country 's president , milos zeman , on monday for instigating a public spat with the u.s. ambassador , saying he wished the president was more professional in diplomatic affairs .  on sunday , zeman told a local news site he had " closed the door " of his official residence to u.s. ambassador andrew schapiro following the envoy 's comments the president perceived as critical of his decision to attend a world war two commemoration in moscow in may .  european union leaders are boycotting the ceremony over what they say is russia 's role in the conflict in ukraine but zeman - who has frequently departed from the eu line and criticized sanctions against moscow - has said he would attend .  prime minister bohuslav sobotka made clear his view that it was crucial for the security of the former soviet-bloc nation to remain in lock step with nato and the eu .  " i would of course welcome if mr. president 's approach to foreign policy and diplomacy in general was somewhat saying .  the czech presidency is largely a ceremonial role but zeman - who was the first president directly elected when he took office in 2013 - has frequently drawn the ire of government leaders for his public comments on domestic and foreign affairs .  sobotka said zeman reacted disproportionately to the u.s. envoy 's comments .  schapiro had told czech television it would be " awkward " if zeman attended the ceremony as the only statesmen from an eu country . he later said he had no intention of telling a foreign statesman where to travel .  " i understand the desire to honor all who sacrificed in world war two , but i think it would be unfortunate for president zeman to be there as perhaps ? the only eu head of state , watching a military parade , at a time when russian troops are destabilizing a neighbor in violation of international law , " schapiro said in a statement .  " i regret that president zeman was offended by that ; as someone who claims to value blunt talk , i would zeman , a former prime minister , has frequently departed from the common eu line on ukraine and has criticized sanctions against moscow . the government , which is responsible for foreign policy , however , has held the eu line fully .  moscow has backed the rebels in eastern ukraine but denies western accusations that it provides them with money , arms and troops . reuters