Burundi crisis talks in bid to end political violence
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/world/burundi-crisis-talks-in/1829860.html

The rivals met late Tuesday and talks were expected to continue Wednesday , as protests continued in some areas of the capital .  BUJUMBURA , Burundi : Government and opposition rivals in Burundi have held talks on ending deadly demonstrations against a third term bid by the president , officials said Wednesday ( May 6 ) , as international concern mounted over the crisis .  Protesters have defied calls to end demonstrations , after more than a week of running battles in which over a dozen people have been killed . UN refugee chief Antonio Guterres said he was " extremely worried " as tens of thousands fled the small central African nation .  President Pierre Nkurunziza , a former rebel leader from the Hutu majority who has been in power since 2005 , has come under intense international pressure to withdraw from the June 26 presidential poll .  " This is a last chance meeting , they have to come up with concrete solutions so that elections can be held in acceptable conditions , " a diplomat said of the talks , deal was not struck .  US Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday he was " deeply concerned " about Nkurunziza 's decision to stand again , which he said " flies directly in the face of the constitution " .  The rivals met late Tuesday and talks were expected to continue Wednesday , as protests continued in some areas of the capital .  East African foreign ministers , from neighbouring Rwanda and Tanzania , as well as Kenya and Uganda , have also arrived " to propose ways out of crisis , " foreign ministry spokesman Daniel Kabuto said .  Clashes between rival groups took places in parts of the capital Wednesday , with witnesses reporting at least two grenade explosions . Burundi Red Cross spokesman Alexis Manirakiza said 16 people were wounded .  However , Burundi 's foreign ministry said that " peace and security reigned " across the country , apart from " a few districts of the capital ... shaken by illegal demonstrations and violence triggered by certain political opponents . "  The meetings come after furious protesters dismissed a decision made after the court 's vice-president refused to sign the judgement and fled the country instead .  Vice President Prosper Bazombanza has pleaded for protests to end , offering to release demonstrators who have been arrested , lift arrest warrants issued for key civil society leaders and reopen independent radio stations - provided " protests and the insurrection stop " .  ' ENOUGH CRISES '  A government source , speaking on condition he not be named , confirmed the government had " agreed to talk with some partners in civil society and the opposition to find a solution " . But one of leaders of the campaign against Nkurunziza 's third term said they were doubtful the talks would result in a deal .  " I 'm afraid we wo n't succeed - because the government does not want to discuss the third mandate of Nkurunziza , and this issue is non-negotiable for us , " he said , asking not be named .  Burundi , where a 13-year civil war between Tutsis and Hutus ended only in 2006 , has been rocked by violent critics say is in defiance of the constitution and the Arusha accords which ended the war .  Nkurunziza 's supporters say he is eligible to run again since his first term in office followed his election by parliament - not directly by the people as the constitution specifies .  Last week the East African Community ( EAC ) - the five-nation bloc that includes Burundi - warned leaders to " ensure that the electoral process does not lead to humanitarian crisis " . Over 30,000 Burundians have already fled into neighbouring nations , mainly into Rwanda .  UNHCR chief Antonio Guterres , speaking in Nairobi , said he was " extremely worried " at the political crisis .  " We thought Burundian refugees were something we would never have to discuss again , unfortunately we are back to having a significant outflow of Burundians , " Guterres told reporters . " It must stop . We have enough crises in the world . "  Rwanda has warned Burundi it must protect civilians saying it was concerned at " reports " violence was linked to ethnic Hutu ( FDLR ) , who fled Rwanda into Democratic Republic of Congo after the 1994 genocide of mainly Tutsi people there .  Rwanda has previously sent troops into DR Congo to target the rebels .  Burundi 's foreign ministry dismissed the reports , saying such forces would not be " tolerated on Burundian territory . "