SEA Games cauldron, torch parade route unveiled
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/sea-games-cauldron-torch/1828784.html

singapore : the sea games cauldron for the 28th edition of the regional sporting competition was unveiled on wednesday ( may 6 ) - marking the one-month countdown to the opening ceremony of the games .  the cauldron , at the singapore sports hub , is designed by dp architects and built by kingsmen . it is made of stainless steel , 19.2-metre-high and there will be a led screen displaying information such as the time and weather during the games . it also has a burner able to project a 1.5m- to 4m-high flame and 11 bars within the structure to represent the different countries participating in this year 's games , according to the singapore southeast asian games organising committee ( singsoc ) .  " the elegant sculptural showpiece incorporates the thematic essence of the sea games and its primary design motif - the dna , which connects nations , communities and individuals together in a unity of aspirations , " mr seah chee huang , director of dp architects said .  colonel lawrence lim , chairman of the opening and closing and kingsmen have spent the past 12 months designing and building the cauldron . the cauldron will be completed by the end of may .  torch relay details  besides unveiling the cauldron , singsoc also revealed the torch relay details for the public to get involved on jun 4 , and the relay to light the cauldron on jun 5 .  the torch will be lit at the marina bay promontory , and will go past clifford square , merlion park , esplanade plaza , the art science museum and end at marina bay sands , where the flame handover ceremony to the games officials will take place . this is called the torch parade and will take place on the jun 4 . it will see 28 individuals from all walks of life parade the trophy along the route .  there will be a different torch relay for the actual opening ceremony on jun 5 . the torch relay will involve athletes who have either competed or are competing in the 28th sea games , along with a few selected pairs of inter-generational athletes . more then be transported to the cauldron by water , although details about how it will be brought over were not disclosed .  " as one of the highlights of the opening ceremony , the 28th sea games flame will be transported across the kallang basin to the national stadium . the game torch will be brought into the national stadium by a number of torchbearers , and all spectators will be able to see and cheer on our torchbearers as it makes its way around the stadium , " col lim said .