More than 1000 French titles now available for borrowing at Central ...
http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/more-than-1000-french-titles-now-available-for-borrowing-at-central-public-library

singapore - the public will now be able to borrow from the national library board 's ( nlb ) collection of more than 1,000 french books , previously available for reference only .  the collection , housed at the lee kong chian reference library in the national library building on victoria street since 2008 , was relocated to the central public library , in the basement of the same building , on wednesday .  the books - a mix of classical french literature , including acclaimed titles like the mystery of the yellow room by gaston leroux and remembrance of things past by marcel proust , and works on philosophy and the social sciences - were contributed by the french embassy here . all the titles have been translated into english , chinese , malay and tamil .  " i am happy that we are able to make these books available for lending , " said nlb chief executive elaine ng , noting the french collection would be well received by the public . " it would give library-goers an insight into french culture contemporary titles including novels by nobel prize winner patrick modiano , were added to the collection .  mr benjamin dubertret , ambassador for france to singapore , said more books would be added in the coming months .  " this collection is a way to present our prestigious literary legacy . every year , thousands of new books are written by french authors and shared all over the world , " he said . " by relocating the collection to the central public library , it will be more accessible to the public and they can now borrow these books . "  following the launch event , mr olivier d'agay , delegate general of the antoine de saint exupery youth foundation , held a conference in which he talked about the classic , le petit prince , or the little prince , which was written by his great uncle antoine de saint exupery .  the book has been translated into over 270 languages , including thai and spanish , and has sold over 140 million copies worldwide . copies of the little prince are also made available launch of the french collection and the conference are part of this year 's voilah ! french festival .  follow st  the straits times  we have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused . until we resolve the issues , subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles . but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.