Here's how startups can close funding in three days!
http://e27.co/heres-startups-can-close-funding-three-days-20150605/

bangalore-based tracxn , which provides research on startups and emerging sectors to institutional investors , has launched a curated fundraising platform called tracxn syndicate to help startups raise capital from angels . the team will pick one or two of the most promising startups from upcoming sectors after thorough analysis . the platform will then showcase up to two startups every week on the syndicate platform to all registered angels .  neha singh , co-founder of tracxn  " unlike traditional syndicate platforms , the core focus will be on curation of startups and matching them with relevant value-added angels . we use our extensive startup data analytics platform and an army of sector-specific analyst team to provide a curated flow of early-stage deals for angels , " says neha singh , co-founder of tracxn .  addressing the problem of discovery of startups  indian startups end up wasting a lot of time and effort in approaching the right investor and the entire fundraising process might take more than six-seven months . tracxn syndicate aims to address the problem of discovery of startups by angel co-founder of tracxn  " with a boom in the number of startups and the growth of an active angel investing culture , there is a lot of disorganisation in the manner in which startups reach out to potential angels and , in turn , angels seek out good investment prospects . given the expertise built with tracxn research , we realised that we can do a significantly better job at bringing together angels and startups where angels get to see highly curated startups in upcoming sectors . similarly , founders can choose the angels with relevant background who they think can truly add value to their companies , " says abhishek goyal , co-founder of tracxn .  who are the angels ?  the investment process begins with the filling up a sign-up form . once an investor signs up , the tracxn team reaches out to verify if he/she is an accredited investor . after complete verification , one can become a part of an exclusive group of investors .  " our platform will appeal to the more regular lot who are looking to invest outside their spend a significant amount of time to bring angels who can add a lot of value to the startups -- strategic and operational , and have not been investing as regularly now , " adds singh .  what is the process ?  the startup fundraising process lasts over a three-day window where angels get to interact with founders digitally and offline to understand the opportunity . investors can apply to join the process and those selected will get exclusive access to the pitch .  this is followed by a video presentation by the founder where investors can post their queries and get responses . following this , investors can also set up one-to-one calls with the founders .  interested investors showcase their interest with an amount and highlight the value they will add to the startup . founders can choose which investors they want on-board and the formal agreement and documentation is taken care by tracxn .  " the aim is to cut down the entire process of raising an angel round to less than a week for startups . we want to make the investing our process will be more biased towards angels who can add a lot of value to the startups in their early building process -- strategic and operational , " shares singh .  curation is the key differentiation  many online fundraising platforms have been launched to speed up the fundraising process and help startups connect to the right investor . the key differentiation that tracxn syndicate wants to bring is curation .  " earlier angel investors were primarily investing in their network where they had the advantage of knowing the founders personally . as angels are evolving and investing outside their direct network , they need tools and research as sophisticated as that of institutional investors . given our core competency , we thought we could build something which is significantly better than what exists in the market today , " singh adds .  according to her , each of the analysts is focussed on tracking specific niche sectors . so there is a lot of effort being spent on thesis building for each vertical , and curation of startups within each sector . " given that returns curation can play a very critical role . also , given our bandwidth on research , we aim to provide a very high coverage on interesting startups being created in india , " she explains .  expansion plans  the company claims to have tracked more than 10,000 technology startups in india alone and adds 50 new startups every day .  by the end of next year , its goal is to help more than 300 startups every year from india to raise capital through the platform . " by end of 2015 , we expect our analyst team to grow from 40 to 150 people , so one expects a lot of effort being spent around research of sectors and curation of startups . we also plan to launch in more geographies soon and you can expect us to be present in five-six interesting countries by the year end , " concludes singh .  tracxnunited states of americatracxn is the research partner for venture capitalists and corporate development offices powered by the largest startup data platform tracking over 10m companies globally . funding : 3.5m series a @ @ @ @