Singapore based Yingli Solar to power rural Laos schools
http://www.dealstreetasia.com/stories/singapore-based-yingli-solar-to-power-rural-laos-schools-8936/

each site is equipped with a 2 kw off-grid system that is now operational and is providing its occupants with access to electricity . the school is located in phongasavang and the health clinic is located in lad khammune .  personnel from these organisations supported the laying of electrical wiring and installation of lights , fans and solar system . for social work volunteers , it was a component of their social voluntary program , with a similar solar power project conducted last year at another rural school in lad khammune .  the phongsavang and lad khammune communities were chosen by the ymca of singapore for these projects , as the municipal authorities of the area were not in a position to facilitate electrical supply during the next five years . solar panels , system equipment , installers and manpower were transported five hours by boat from luang prabang to this remote location .  the ban phongsavang school has over 120 students who will benefit from the clean energy system , which will provide lights for the night classes and fans for cooling classrooms into educational lessons and enrich the learning experiences for students in these schools .  the lad khammune health centre serves the medical needs of seven surrounding villages , serving approximately 3000 people . the access to solar energy will allow the health centre to extend its operating hours and facilitate a more comfortable environment for patients via fan use .  angie koh , managing director of yingli singapore and southeast asia operations , said " it was a pleasure to once again partner with such strong organisations and successfully bring solar power to these rural communities . the project is reflective of yingli 's larger efforts to improve the lives of communities around the world with clean , affordable solar power . "  dealstreetasia is a one-stop source for the generally opaque dealscape across asia . our team of reporters track deals , with a focus on investments , private equity , venture capital and m&amp;as across this region , and bring it to your inbox every day .