Temasek participates in $2b Didi Kauidi funding round
http://www.dealstreetasia.com/stories/temasek-participates-in-2b-didi-kauidi-funding-round-8918/

compared to the $1.5 billion funding raised by internet firms facebook in 2011 and airbnb in june 2015 , this marks the largest private equity investment in an internet firm to date and backs up didi kuaidi 's claims to be a record breaking deal .  by comparison , uber , its largest international competitor , has abandoned the practice of raising incrementally larger rounds and is opting to raise funds in a mixture of loans , debt funding or equity with millions to billions from banks , venture capital ( vc ) firms and large corporate internet firms . as of may 2015 , it is seeking to raise a $1.5 billion round at a valuation of $50 billion .  uber entered china in 2014 and began aggressively promoting its peer-to-peer ( p2p ) tier " people 's uber " , which is branded as uberx in the us and uberpop in some parts of europe . this was achieved by granting massive trip bonuses to drivers , in order to acquire users and drive growth . this growth strategy provided expensive , as entered china earlier than uber , , with a significantly larger market presence in mainland chinese cities . didi kuaidi owns an estimated 99 per cent market share when it comes to taxi hailing . however , didi kuaidi and uber are now competing for the p2p casual chauffeur market , which remains relatively untapped and has far more potential .  both are intensely marketing themselves , with claims by uber -- of booking 1 million daily rides in china across both p2p and chauffeured services for the 13 cities it has a presence in .  didi claims that didi shunfeng che , its latest p2p service , is booking 600,000 daily rides across 148 cities . while significantly cheaper , that is still fewer bookings than by uber . with this in mind , the question of who will win arises -- the international firm or the local player ? the last time a major internet firm made a local china play was google inc .  this investment also comes amidst calls for reforms of the taxi sector in china , which has been described as having companies and strict market access .  dealstreetasia is a one-stop source for the generally opaque dealscape across asia . our team of reporters track deals , with a focus on investments , private equity , venture capital and m&amp;as across this region , and bring it to your inbox every day .