Chaotic rush-hour scenes as London Tube staff strike
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/world/chaotic-rush-hour-scenes/1972082.html

Many of the major trunk roads into the capital were log-jammed and there were chaotic scenes at bus stops and overland train stations as passengers sought alternative ways to get to work on time .  LONDON : London 's roads , buses and overland trains struggled to cope in Thursday 's ( Jul 9 ) morning rush hour as commuters battled into work in the face of London Underground 's first strike shutdown since 2002 .  Many of the major trunk roads into the capital were log-jammed and there were chaotic scenes at bus stops and overland train stations as passengers sought alternative ways to get to work on time .  Twitter users posted pictures of overcrowded train platforms and long queues outside the stations while one commuter described scenes of " absolute carnage " on the buses .  Taxi firm Uber reported demand was " off the charts ! " with fares almost trebling as a result .  Drivers are staging the 24-hour walkout in protest at pay and plans for a new 24-hour service due to start in September . strike at 6.30pm ( 1730 GMT ) on Wednesday , as unions mounted picket lines outside stations and Transport for London ( TfL ) began reporting delays .  A full shutdown came into force on Thursday , and TfL has warned that disruptions to the British capital 's public transport could continue into Friday .  Transport for London , the local government organisation responsible for most aspects of London 's transport system , said it would lay on 200 extra buses and more bicycle rental hubs , although it also posted walking maps of London on its website .  " Londoners who own a bike are encouraged to cycle to work , " the network administrator said in a statement .  To reach the Wimbledon tennis tournament , which ends this weekend , TfL said it was organising a taxi-sharing service from the nearest train station .  Prime Minister David Cameron 's spokeswoman on Wednesday called the strike " unacceptable and unjustified " , while London Mayor Boris Johnson said it was " politically motivated " .  New all-night Underground services are due to start , which was rejected by union leaders on Wednesday .  London Underground 's managing director Mike Brown said an all-night Tube service would support jobs and boost the city 's economy , adding that the offer had been " remarkably fair " .