Report: Maggi is safe to consume, but not in India
http://biotechin.asia/2015/07/09/report-maggi-is-safe-to-consume-but-not-in-india/

report : maggi is safe to consume , but not in india  maggi noodles , a mouthwatering eatable for many people across the globe , has been under the scanner for sometime now . maggi is a product of the swiss multinational company , nestle .  in may 2015 , the central food safety regulator fssai banned maggi noodles in india and ordered for immediate withdrawal and recall of all the nine varieties from the market . this news stirred the indian market leaving the people unhappy and went viral on social media .  maggi noodles in india was tested and reported to contain lead and excess levels of monosodium glutamate ( msg ) and hence declared unsafe for consumption . the testing was conducted by food and drugs administration authority ( fda ) of india at different laboratories , state laboratory in gorakhpur , and at the central food laboratory in kolkata , a referral lab . as a result , the company had to destroy maggi noodles worth 320 crore rupees at ambuja cements plant . additionally , the company had to and transport to the place of destruction and associated costs . nestle 's appeal of the stay on the ban was rejected despite its claim to have done extensive testing of the several batches of maggi noodles .  despite the rejections and ban on maggi in india , a few other countries like singapore , uk and canada finds maggi safe for consumption . orders from bombay high court on june 30th allowed nestle to export indian made maggi to several other countries .  recently , canadian food regulatory authority , the canadian food inspection agency ' ( cfia ) , inspected indian-made maggi and certified that it is perfectly safe for consumption . in june , singapore 's food regulator agri-food and veterinary authority of singapore ( ava ) had also declared maggi noodles to be safe for consumption . on july 1 , britain 's food standards authority ( fsa ) has also confirmed the same as singapore and canada . according to britain 's fsa , presence of lead was detected in the product within the european union ( eu ) permissible levels and hence it indian maggi ridiculously unsafe for indians to consume whereas good for rest of the world .  this kind of situation is confusing for the end consumer hence it needs to be understood that the permissible levels of different components in food products largely vary between the countries as depending on the regulations of the food administration authority of each country . also the difference in the regulations would be an outcome of the standards and the scientific expertise involved in the testing procedures followed .