Indonesian police arrest student for Twitter threat on SIA flight
http://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2015/07/indonesian-police-arrest-student-for-twitter-threat-on-sia-flight/

indonesian police arrest student for twitter threat on sia flight  a 21-year old college student , named only as ilham , has been arrested by the indonesian authorities for making a prank bomb threat against singapore airlines .  the prankster is believed to be a student of a university in serpong , south tangerang , yesterday .  according to news reports , ilham allegedly created a twitter account with the sole intention of pulling off the prank .  he is believed to be an aviation fan and had wanted to see the new sq221 , which is an airbus a380 plane , and the tweet was to force the plane to make an emergency landing in jakarta so that he could see the plane for himself .  he thus made the threat through twitter directed at flight sq221 which was flying from singapore to sydney .  according to reports , the flight was delayed for several hours as the authorities carried out checks to determine the threat .  the singapore and indonesian police worked together and ilham was arrested at to the prank and could now face charges under anti-terrorism laws .  " yes , we arrested him at his house in tangerang yesterday , " said the director of economic crimes at the police 's detective corps , brig . gen. victor edison simanjuntak .  he added that while the authorities believed ilham had acted alone , they are nevertheless still investigating if others are involved .  a co-founder of the online citizen in december 2006 , andrew 's writings have been reproduced in other publications , including the australian housing journal . he was nominated by yahoo singapore as one of singapore 's most influential media persons in 2011 .  subscribe to blog via email  enter your email to subscribe and receive notifications of new posts by email .  email address  about us  the online citizen is singapore 's longest-running independent online media platform . our aim is to examine the issues that matter , or should matter , to singaporeans and to reflect the diversity of life , of ideas and opinions , that is singapore .  we believe informed and involved citizenry that has access to a wide range of sources of news and views and an open and vibrant environment in which to share and to debate ideas and opinions .