Robertos tantrum: Carlos and ISL organisers led by a false sense of ...
http://www.catchnews.com/football-news/indian-super-league-roberto-carlos-stephen-constantine-indian-football-delhi-dynamos-fifa-world-cup-qualifiers-1444128244.html

early bird  the manager of an amateur football team playing in a private football tournament in india is furious with the country 's national team head coach stephen constantine . he is furious because constantine recently turned down his request to allow some of the indian internationals in his team from playing in a match of the said tournament , four days prior to india 's crucial world cup qualifier against turkmenistan in ashgabat on 8 october .  the behaviour of the manager may sound ludicrous to you . after all , why would constantine allow the players in his squad to play an inconsequential match in delhi four days before a must-win game thousands of miles away in ashgabat ? surprisingly , the manager in question here is brazilian football legend roberto carlos , who has been in top-level professional football for well over two decades , and is currently in charge of indian super league franchise delhi dynamos .  " do n't want to speak about the indian national team because of the way he spoke to me . "  after sunday , 4 october , roberto carlos seemed upset at having missed the services of three of his players who had left for national team duty earlier in the day . in a lacklustre game of football which saw delhi go down tamely away from home in fatorda , goa , carlos ' team looked short of ideas throughout the 90 minutes .  later on , he was asked about the three missing players in the team . " yes i spoke to him ( constantine ) and asked if i could keep them ( players ) . i did not like the way he spoke- at all , " he was quoted as saying by goal.com . " i do n't want to speak about the indian national team because of the way he spoke to me . good luck to him , " carlos added .  earlier , delhi dynamos had requested the all india football federation ( aiff ) to allow the three indian players to stay with the team till 5 october . the proposal was rejected by aiff , as fifa guidelines clearly state at least four days before international games . aiff , however , said that they would have no problem if constantine heeded to dynamos ' request .  constantine understandably turned down the request , with the indians required to travel for thousands of miles for the games in turkmenistan and oman on 8 and 13 october , respectively . a planned training camp ahead of the two world cup qualifying games had already been cancelled because of opposition by isl franchises , and constantine needed all the time he could afford with his players .  carlos ' comment displays a complete lack of respect  there is no doubting roberto carlos ' status as one of the modern days greats of football . during his prime years , he went on to establish himself as one of the greatest left-backs in the sport 's history . even as a manager , he has done relatively well during his brief stints with anzhi makhachkala and sivasspor .  now that he has come to india to earn his daily bread , one would expect him to at least respect the , not only displays a complete lack of respect for both stephen constantine and the indian national team , but also shows his ignorance of the fifa regulations , which is baffling , given his experience in the sport .  perhaps the brazilian legend could put himself on constantine 's shoes and try to understand the other side of the story . today indian football stands in a very precarious position . professional clubs are disbanding , the i-league is dying a slow death , the national team lies at 167th in the fifa world rankings . on top of that , the national team is robbed of a precious training camp ahead of two world cup qualifying games away from home .  in such a scenario , it is probably not entirely logical to expect an amiable reply from the national team coach when you are making an irrational and unfeasible request .  does isl need to follow fifa guidelines ?  isl , although not recognised by fifa , falls under the jurisdiction of aiff . with aiff directly answerable to fifa , the isl has relating to the national team .  however , there seems to be a misguided sense of entitlement on the part of isl franchises and its organisers img-reliance , which is very well reflected in robert carlos ' statement . the fact that the stakeholders of isl managed to highjack the national team 's preparations for the two world cup qualifiers this month , is a stark reminder of the dangers posed by isl to indian football interests .  while preparing the schedule for the second season , the organisers of isl completely disregarded india 's involvement in the fifa world cup qualifiers , holding games on the same day the indian team plays its matches . this itself is enough to show where exactly the priorities of the organisers lie .