Top 3 places to avoid during Christmas in Seoul
http://travel.asiaone.com/article/destinations/top-3-places-to-avoid-during-christmas-in-seoul

top 3 places to avoid during christmas in seoul  with christmas just around the corner , people are wondering where and how to spend some quality holiday time with their loved ones .  some of you may get some ideas from korean dramas in which couples watch the ball drop at a hotel party or walk on streets aglow with the christmas spirit .  but try that in real life , and there 's a good chance that you wo n't be able to recover by the new year , getting shoved and bumped by the huge crowds .  so , if you happen to be in seoul during the holiday season , forget these places on the list below .  1 . myeong-dong  for some , myeong-dong could be on top of the list when planning christmas dates . yes , the neon lights , christmas decorations and street shopping sound like the perfect way to spend the day , but you 're probably not the only one thinking going there .  the crazy crowd in myeong-dong 's main the catholic church , make it all but impassable , even during an ordinary weekend .  gangnam station is one of the biggest transportation hubs providing convenient access to and from seoul to nearby regions . plus , the area has a lot of businesses , restaurants and a lively nightlife , eventually drawing an average of 200,000 to 210,000 people daily .  3 . itaewon  if anyone was in itaewon on this year 's halloween , they would easily agree that planning a christmas date in the area would be insane .  of course , itaewon is choc-a-block with trendy bars and restaurants , providing the most festive activities to enjoy in seoul . but that is , only if you can make it to your destination .  last halloween , it was nearly impossible to walk a block near the subway station . many koreans came because they opt to think any holiday or events that originate from the west are most enjoyable in itaewon , where one can meet people of diverse nationalities and cultures . the place is also notorious for being it 's already late to regret once you are there .