Cameron 'recklessly disregarded' on EU welfare plan - Mayor Johnson
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/world/cameron-recklessly-disre/2345728.html

Cameron ' recklessly disregarded ' on EU welfare plan - Mayor Johnson  David Cameron 's plans to curb welfare payments to EU migrants have been " recklessly disregarded " by other leaders in the bloc , an ally of the British prime minister said in an article published on Monday .  LONDON : David Cameron 's plans to curb welfare payments to EU migrants have been " recklessly disregarded " by other leaders in the bloc , an ally of the British prime minister said in an article published on Monday .  London Mayor Boris Johnson , tipped as a successor to Cameron , said EU leaders had to set out other ways for Britain to regain control of its borders after the leader met opposition to a proposal to curb numbers of EU migrants by making workers wait four years before getting access to some welfare benefits .  Officials and diplomats say the proposal would discriminate between EU citizens on national grounds , jarring with basic EU treaty law - a blow to Cameron 's push to renegotiate Britain 's EU ties  Johnson wrote in the Telegraph newspaper : " These people are radically and dangerously misreading the Prime Minister if they think he wants to stay in the EU at any price . The David Cameron I know is much more Eurosceptic than some of his senior colleagues . "  Cameron has said he wants to stay in a reformed EU but rules nothing out if he can not get the changes he is seeking .  Johnson said that if Denmark , another EU member , could require foreign nationals to live in the country for at least five years before being allowed to buy a property , Britain should also be allowed to make similar exemptions .  " The PM 's suggestion was modest , and sensible . It has been recklessly disregarded . This country could have a viable and exciting future outside the present EU arrangements . If we are going to stay , we need reform ; and if the Danes can have their special circumstances recognised , so can Britain , " he said .