Oil price slump could trigger another US debt default crisis as ...
http://www.independent.ie/business/world/oil-price-slump-could-trigger-another-us-debt-default-crisis-as-frackers-face-bankruptcy-30749289.html

andrew critchlow  falling oil prices could hurt many of the us companies now producing gas by fracking  remember the global financial crisis , triggered six years ago when billions of dollars of dodgy loans - doled out by banks to subprime borrowers and then resold numerous times on international debt markets - began to unravel and default ?  stock markets plunged , banks collapsed and the entire global financial system teetered on the brink of catastrophe . well , a similarly chilling economic scenario could be set off by the current collapse in oil prices .  based on recent stress tests of subprime borrowers in the energy sector in the us produced by deutsche bank , should the price of us crude fall by a further 20pc to $60 per barrel , it could result in up to a 30pc default rate among b and ccc-rated high-yield us borrowers in the industry .  west texas intermediate crude is currently trading at multi-year lows of around $75 per barrel , down from $107 per barrel in june .  " a shock of market default cycle , if materialised , " warn deutsche strategists oleg melentyev and daniel sorid in their report .  five years ago at the beginning of what has become known as the us shale oil revolution , drillers started to load up on debt to fund their operations and acquire new acreage as vast areas of north america started to open up for exploration .  in 2010 , energy and materials companies made up just 18pc of the us high-yield index - which tracks sub-investment grade borrowers - but today they account for 29pc of the measure after drilling firms spent the past five years borrowing heavily to underwrite the operations .  the result of this debt splurge has been a spectacular rise in us oil and gas output .  this rush to pump more oil in the us has created a dangerous debt bubble in a notoriously volatile segment of corporate credit markets , which could pose a wider systemic risk in the world 's biggest economy .  should oil prices fall for a prolonged period of time many frackers forced to borrow at ultimately default . according to research from jp morgan asset management , of the 12 largest shale oil basins in the us , 80pc are barely profitable .