Women love a man in uniform - but which ones make the best lovers?
http://www.irishmirror.ie/female/women-love-man-uniform---4644825

Women love a man in uniform - but which ones make the best lovers ?  According to a survey carried out among 3,400 women that have dated a ' man in uniform ' over the last three months , bobbies are the best between the sheets  Shares  Get daily news by email  Invalid e-mailThanks for subscribing ! Could not subscribe , try again later  Getty  Phwooooar : Policemen are better in bed than firemen  Women love a man in uniform - but which one is best in bed ?  While firefighters have long been at the top of many a woman 's fantasy list , it is actually policemen who make better lovers .  According to a survey carried out among 3,400 women who have dated a ' man in uniform ' over the last three months , bobbies are the best between the sheets .  This is mainly because they are ' gentle ' , ' considerate ' and ' unselfish ' .  Firemen need not despair , though - they finished in a highly ' , ' adventurous ' and for ' taking control ' .  Police officers  8.2 out of 10  Ambulance paramedics were third due to their ' calm ' and ' easy going attitude ' .  Perhaps surprisingly , muscle-bound gym instructors were pummeled into fifth place by binmen - or waste management and disposal technicians , to give them their correct job title .  Women are advised to avoid traffic wardens - as they scored among the lowest for their sexual performance .  The ' yellow peril ' as they are commonly known , were accused of being ' feeble and self absorbed ' , amongst other things .  Propping up the table is waiters , who scored a measly 3.9 out of 10 .  Firefighters  7.9 out of 10  Doctors also scored low marks , with ' selfish ' and ' aloof ' among the accusations levelled at them .  A spokesman for uniform dating site voxxi.co.uk , who conducted the survey , said : " It came as quite a surprise that policeman topped the list of sexiest ultimate fantasy .  " Even more interesting was the fact bin men beat gym instructors and soldiers in the survey .  " Perhaps it is down to the bin men 's ' cheeky chappy ' patter and their down to earth image . "  Overall , 67% of the women who took part said they still fancied ' men in uniform ' despite the ' hit-and-miss ' nature of their recent dalliances .  Traffic warden  4.8 out of 10  It also emerged that firefighting is still considered the sexiest profession among those who took part in the research .