Eoin Hennessy takes a look at the knew Actress LP
http://www.universitytimes.ie/2014/01/actress-ghettoville/

actress -- ghettoville  eoin hennessy takes a look at the knew actress lp  almost two years have passed since darren cunningham graced us with the beautifully enigmatic r.i.p .. since then , the wolverhampton beat maestro has been working on what many believe will be his last album under the actress pseudonym . cunningham provided a statement with his new album , ghettoville , claiming that it " is the bleached out and black tinted conclusion of the actress image " . the album is also the unofficial sequel to actress 's 2008 debut masterpiece , hazyville .  the bleached out and black tinted conclusion of the actress image  for the follow up to hazyville , actress has returned to his werkdisc roots , however , this time in partnership with london based label ninja tune . the result is a murky sixteen track lp full of distortion , hypnotic bass lines and faint bleeps . ghettoville begins with the seven minute long " forgiven " . its sparse and sinister beat is barely audible , serving as the perfect transition between hazyville " , seems more like the apocalyptic beginning of ghettoville . although it contains the normal bleeps associated with the work of actress , the sounds are more industrial than ever .  the result is a murky sixteen track lp full of distortion , hypnotic bass lines and faint bleeps  cunningham 's production becomes clear and even slightly more weird than usual . in an interview with the beat juice , cunningham said that the album could be interpreted as " diseased " and that the imagery intended for the album was in some way based upon " mutants " . tracks like " corner " , " time " and " towers " definitely represent the freakish picture cunningham was striving for .  the album could be interpreted as " diseased " and that the imagery intended for the album was in some way based upon " mutants "  cunningham has obviously tried to achieve something different with ghettoville . a lot of the tracks on the album are quite upbeat , somewhat reminding us of actress 's 2010 album splazsh . however , instead of deformed hybrid combining the cloudy sound of hazyville with futuristic 4 ? 4 beats .  a deformed hybrid  the fourth track " rims " could be actress 's mutated take on the music of flying lotus , while " image " sounds like 80 's funk group , cameo , on acid . strange echoes like this crop up all over ghettoville , yet it somehow sounds unbelievably original . the track " skyline " could even be heard as some sort of freak child created by daft punk 's " around the world " and joy orbison .  strange echoes like this crop up all over ghettoville , yet it somehow sounds unbelievably original  ghettoville ends on " rule " , a three minute-long track of twisted hip-hop , yet again showing off cunningham 's diversity . a strange send-off to the final actress outing . however , maybe that 's the point . darren cunningham has created yet another amazing record and even if it is the last album he 'll produce as actress , we should be thankful that he granted us with four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @