Thirty people still missing hours after fire at home for the elderly
http://www.thejournal.ie/fire-isle-verte-canada-fatalities-1278784-Jan2014/

the fire was brought under control but the building has been completely destroyed . bad weather conditions , including a strong wind which fanned the flames , made it more difficult for firefighters to tackle the blaze .  the town 's acting mayor told a news conference that most of the people living in the home were reliant on carers .  ginette caron said the residents included people who needed " 100 per cent care , almost all in wheelchairs , using walkers , or who are n't mobile at all , people suffering from the late stages of alzheimers , " she said .  authorities said up to nine people were treated at nearby hospitals for their injuries .  a police spokesperson said that while 30 people are still missing , it does not mean that they are dead . ann mathiew of quebec provincial police said that several of the residents may have been visiting family or may have taken refuge during the fire and missed being counted , she said .  nonetheless , " it 's a tragedy for toll will rise , " gaetan lelievre , a local politician told french-language public broadcaster radio canada .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.