Daily discrimination facing the disabled in everyday life
http://www.irishmirror.ie/news/daily-discrimination-facing-disabled-everyday-3055222

daily discrimination facing the disabled in everyday life  i hope to be the rosa parks of the disabled community  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  michael holden believes the disabled are being discriminated against  i have had several unusual experiences this week and all unique , yet with a common theme .  if we discriminate based on ethnicity , we refer to it as being racism , sexually it 's sexism , sexual orientation it 's homophobia and , emanating from the us , is a new term for discrimination against disabled people -- ableism .  an interesting term that few people have heard in northern ireland , but one i feel needs to be adopted .  i have experienced this in various forms today and i am still sure that for most it is unintentional and they do n't realise they are being ablest .  one person in particular took offence that i pointed it out to her and even more so when i said her the first instance happened when i went to take my son to school . i pulled into the school car park and it was unusually full . even the space reserved for the disabled was taken .  on closer inspection this car had no blue badge displayed and i was quick to learn it was an able-bodied parent who had parked there . nothing new in that except that the two parking spaces for the principal and vice-principal were empty . both of these staff were in bulgaria on a school trip with the primary seven pupils .  it amused me that nobody would dare encroach upon the parking spaces of these two teachers even though they were n't in the country , but thought nothing of parking in a spot reserved for the disabled .  a similar event happened later in the day at the health centre . spaces reserved for a doctor remained unused and yet able-bodied people littered the spaces for disabled people .  no one seems bothered about abusing the disabled , but abuse an authoritative figure and there would be vilification . agenda for that day was a speech i had to give in the long gallery at stormont , a privilege and one i 'd been looking forward to . living in northern ireland with a disability was the theme of what i was to talk about and yet in this centre of government they had provided a standard height lectern for me to use . embarrassing !  having been invited to speak at another event by invest northern ireland on a topic of encouraging entrepreneurs from the disabled community , i enquired if they had any advisors with a disability who could mentor potential candidates ?  this was met with stonewall of comment about how invest northern ireland has great policies to offer services to potential section 75 clients like me .  indicating that the language she was using was unfortunate -- as i was a client with a disability and not a label -- she said that i 'd offended her . a disabled man asking not to be referred to as a section 75 client offended an able-bodied equality officer . some people know no bounds with it , my invitation to speak would be withdrawn , especially as i feel inclined to mention this in my speech on the day .  sometimes life appears to be improving in northern ireland , but it 's never too long before i come back to earth with a bump . i 'm not disheartened and no wall flower .  i will continue to point out this discrimination , the ableism riddled throughout society until attitudes change . i hope to be the rosa parks of the disabled community .