From Boys to Men - Lineout talks to four players from victorious Six ...
http://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/from-boys-to-men-lineout-talks-to-four-players-from-victorious-six-nations-squad-30154748.html

jordi murphy talks rugby , spanish football and losing that medal - only temporarily - after he generously responded to a young fan 's request for some six nation 's kit .  reunited with the medal , jordi brought it to our shoot with top portrait photographer mark nixon in clontarf and the leinster player- who was voted powerade young player of the year last year - also took on our culinary challenge which packed quite a punch for himself and his leinster and ireland team mate , marty moorel  the rugby player makes the admission about football in the interview - but is happy to say he was never any good at it .  " football was my first love - i 'm not saying i was any good at it . i was usually in the nets , " he says .  as we all know , the 22-year-old is enjoying massive success with leinster and ireland .  but there is one drawback - being forced to watch his beloved barcelona on the box .  " i 'm a . it 's handy to have sky sports to watch la liga every week and i get to see a lot of them .  " it was football first when i first got back , with rugby second but it 's taken over since then , " he added .  jordi 's full interview is in ' lineout magazine ' , available today .  we all know about the munster versus leinster rivalry amongst fans , but what must it be like for the players , especially after just coming out of bonding for the six nation 's championship ? .  the desire to win is everything for these professional rugby players , even in a simple table quiz when tasked to recognise key rivals .  the ' name game ' challenge featuring munster and leinster stalwarts peter o'mahony , conor murray , ian madigan and dave kearney is just one of 12 videos which lineout magazine invites you to watch today .  in addition to the glossy men 's lifestyle and sports magazine published today with the irish independent , there 's a whole tablet or laptop .  the exclusive video footage brings you behind-the-scenes and into the lives of some of ireland 's best known rugby giants and you can watch them by going to **26;317;toolong .  lineout 's arsenal of videos also includes a look at the young guns , that clutch of talented new young players who concluded the season by bagging a coveted six nations medal , something the older irish players have dreamed about for years .  did their eyes water in the lineout ' chili challenge ' ? yes , they did and were the boys frantically reaching for milk ? right again ! watch the footage of dublin chef andrew rudd as he invites the boys to spice up their interest in cooking .  we went back to school with prop jack mcgrath when he brought the six nation 's trophy to st mary 's college junior school in rathmines , the place where his rugby career started .  if ireland fans found the last few minutes of the ireland v france game hard to watch last month , player devin toner describes 's conor murray is tipped to become ireland 's best scrum-half ever and the talented , and handsome , limerick man showed what a consummate professional he is when lineout filmed him at no 1 pery square .  the lineout imag covers everything in the printed glossy mag and more . there 's man-cations , with travel advice for holidays with the boys to tech reviews and a special online review by ireland prop mike ross who got his hands on the keenly awaited htc one m8 .  there 's also men 's fashion , grooming , wearable tech and interviews . with so many rugby being big steak eaters , lineout sought out top chef and restaurateur marco pierre white for advice on how to cook the best steak .... and interestingly enough , it involves rosemary !  there 's a competition to win a samsung galaxy note 3 - the phone that ellen degeneres used for her famous selfie at the oscars . details of how to enter are published in lineout magazine .