Teenager makes $100k on Bitcoins and launches his own company
http://www.breakingnews.ie/discover/teenager-makes-100k-on-bitcoins-and-launches-his-own-company-633134.html

teenager makes $100k on bitcoins and launches his own company  less than two years ago , erik finman took $1,000 he received from his grandmother , and invested it into a little-known commodity called bitcoin .  when the digital currency became one of the most-hyped topics of the past year , finman sold - for a tidy $100,000 , using the money to start a company that employs 20 people .  oh - and he 's 15 years old .  finman hails from rural idaho , and is not the greatest fan of school - so his company is designed to connect anyone to a tutor in different subjects , and cut formal education out entirely .  " in rural idaho you do n't get the best teachers in the world and it 's very hard to motivate myself to academic work so homeschooling was n't an option , " he said in a reddit q&amp;a session .  " one of my teachers said i was a loser and i should just drop out . "  when that $1000 cheque excessive - " i called her up to ask if she was dying " ) , he invested in bitcoin because his older brother had been interested in it , and he wanted to join in .  " i honestly did n't think it was going to be an investment at the time , " he said .  but his luck held out as bitcoin started to grow in value -- and peaked when finman sold his bitcoins for $1200 apiece to hire his first staff - at exactly the right time .  " i honestly thought i made a big mistake when the next day it went to $1300 . but two days after that , bitcoins crashed . "  botangle is still in its early stages with a tiny userbase , but the teenage entrepreneur is attracting interest after a profile on social media and tech analysis site mashable .  finman told mashable that , despite being aware of the risk involved in bitcoin , he 's still a big believer .  " i 'm sharing the wealth of bitcoin because i have imagine right now , " he said .  " bitcoin is like the internet in the ' 90s . "  and he 's still no fan of school - if he makes $1million before he 's 18 , his parents have agreed they wo n't insist on him attending college .