_2.5m floating pool and urban beach plan is scaled back
http://www.herald.ie/news/25m-floating-pool-and-urban-beach-plan-is-scaled-back-30343948.html

? 2.5m floating pool and urban beach plan is scaled back  plans for a ? 2.5m floating swimming pool on a converted barge in dun laoghaire harbour have been scaled back following objections .  the dun laoghaire harbour company ( dlhc ) is proposing to build a pool containing heated and treated seawater at the town 's east pier .  victor boyhan  the barge would also house an urban beach . the concept is modelled on the badeschiff facility in berlin , germany .  provision is made for changing and toilet facilities , a cafe , an administration area , and entrance and security features .  following concerns raised by dun laoghaire/rathdown council planners , the company submitted revised designs .  the harbour company said the latest proposals would see a reduction in the development area of 15pc , with the number of " pod structures " housing the different elements of the scheme going from eight to five .  " in order to further minimise the visual impact the height of the structures have ( also ) been height of the proposed facility has been reduced by revising the roof pitch , which has resulted in a reduction of height of up to one metre . "  however , independent councillor victor boyhan said he did not see anything in the additional information to convince him to drop his objections .  " the feeling is that it is not an appropriate place for a thing like this , " he told the herald .  opposed  " the people i know who are objecting are committed to appealing it to an bord pleanala ( if permission is granted ) . there is a general feeling among the public that it is not the right place , " he added .  he is also opposed to plans by the local authority to part-fund the scheme with a contribution of ? 1m .  mr boyhan said the council should instead be putting money into restoring the derelict dun laoghaire baths site , which has been an issue for " some 30-odd years " .  if approved , the floating pool could attract 140,000 visitors a dlhc believes .  tim ryan , operations manager with dlhc , has said : " the development of a floating swimming pool and urban beach is an exciting element of the masterplan for dun laoghaire harbour . "