Judge tells Keane she can't have her licence back yet
http://www.herald.ie/news/judge-tells-keane-she-cant-have-her-licence-back-yet-30454901.html

Judge tells Keane she ca n't have her licence back yet  Dolores Keane has failed in her attempt to get her driving licence back after she was convicted of drink-driving .  The singer appeared yesterday at Glenties District Court in Donegal where she applied halfway through a four-year driving ban for the return of her licence .  Judge Paul Kelly , who said at the original hearing two years ago that he was a fan of A Woman 's Heart , told her he was prohibited in law from returning her licence now .  cancer  After hearing how she needed the licence to attend medical appointments following the development of breast cancer and to continue to attend her AA meetings , he said : " I can only grant the restoration of the licence from March 12 next . I ca n't do any more for you .  " Hopefully , we wo n't see you here in these circumstances again . "  Keane ( 60 ) told him : " I am well aware I made an awful mistake have learned a lot . I went into Hope House for treatment and I have n't had a drink for the last year .  " Today is the first anniversary since I had my last drink . "  The four-year ban imposed in July 2012 for being twice over the alcohol limit in March 2011 was her third disqualification .  She told the judge she had developed breast cancer and there were continuing medical appointments she must keep . She also was applying for the return of her licence to transport her blind son .  She thanked Judge Kelly for listening to her after he explained she still could not drive until next March .  Keane , who was driven to court by a friend who also transports her to appointments and gigs , said outside the court : " On my breast cancer I was in the other day for a mammogram and a scan .  " I got the all-clear , but I had the all-clear before that appointment . I 'm going for the next five years , but every time you .  " I have a message for all motorists and drinkers . Drunken driving is totally not on .  stupid  " It 's so stupid . I have missed out on an awful lot because I was so stupid .  " My licence meant an awful lot to me and my family , my son and daughter , and I have missed it .  " It 's a terrible realisation that you just ca n't walk out your front door and get into a car and drive to do the shopping . "  She recalled that she had a new enjoyment in her singing and performed to a packed audience in the Salthill Hotel outside Galway on Sunday night , and by Monday there were only seven tickets left for next Sunday 's show .