US visa chaos for thousands of Irish waiting for travel documents
http://www.irishcentral.com/news/politics/US-visa-chaos-for-thousands-of-Irish-waiting-for-travel-documents.html

US visa chaos for thousands of Irish waiting for travel documents  Ireland is among the countries affected by a " system glitch " in the program that processes US visas and passports at embassies around the world . The " glitch " has resulted in over a week of delays for thousands -- potentially millions -- of travelers .  Travelers from Ireland to the US who have been cleared for visas and passports are already complaining about non-delivery of the documents , and there is said to be confusion and disarray at the United States Embassy in Dublin .  A spokesperson for the department , Marie Harf , told the AP that " significant performance issues , including outages " had caused an " extensive backlog " in the processing and security checks for passport and visa applications as well as reports of Americans born abroad .  " We apologize to applicants and recognize this may cause hardship to applicants waiting on visas and passports . We are working to correct the issue as quickly as possible , " Harf said .  estimates starting at 50,000 in one country alone , the total may be in the millions . Last year , the number of visas issued by embassies abroad exceeded 9 million , and the summer months bring an uptick in applications .  The " glitch " has inconvenienced everyone from celebrities traveling in and out of the US , to parents waiting to take home their children adopted overseas , to visitors waiting to enter the US .  Actor Daniel Radcliffe , who recently wrapped up a Broadway revival of Martin McDonagh 's " The Cripple of Inishmaan , " was turned away last Friday at the US-Canadian border when he attempted to re-enter the country after the opening of his new film , " What If , " in Toronto .  The Telegraph reports that he was between visas , having just been approved for the O-1 visa , but was not able to receive the necessary stamp from the US Embassy in Toronto because of the backlog . Radcliffe has since returned to the U.S.  In Ireland , people waiting for visa approval from the chaotic . One man , who wished to remain anonymous , told IrishCentral that he had been approved for his visa over a week ago and was still waiting -- not only for the visa , but also for his passport to be returned .  Yesterday the Embassy sent out the following email , noting " If you have travel planned in the near future , we would suggest adjusting your travel arrangements accordingly . "  " The Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs is currently experiencing technical problems with our visa system which are affecting operations globally . We recognize that this may cause inconvenience to travelers , and apologize for the delay .  " Although we have completed adjudication of your visa application , we are unable to take final action on the visa at this time . We hope to have our system fully operational again soon , but currently we do not have a timeline for when this may happen . If you have travel planned in the near future , we would suggest adjusting your travel arrangements accordingly .  " Again . If you would like your passport returned to you ( without the visa ) please let us know and we will return it for later issuance , or alternatively , you may collect your passport any afternoon between 1.00 p.m. and 3.00 p.m . Please be assured that as soon as our visa system is fully operational , we will continue processing your visa and contact you immediately , either by telephone or e-mail .  We appreciate your patience as we work to resolve this matter .  Consular Section  Embassy of the United States of America  After receiving the email , the visa applicant went directly to the Embassy , where he said he was told " they could n't answer my questions and that if I had any travel arrangements I should change them .  " I am supposed to be flying over to the US on Wednesday , " he said . " I 'm going to have to cancel my flight and re-book . They told me the system has been down for a week now . What I do n't understand knew they could n't process them fully . This is going to end up costing me $1,000 . "  A CBS affiliate in Denver reports that local couple Amy and Danny Vogt are stuck in China , where they recently journeyed to finalize the adoption process of their 19-month-old son Jeremiah . The program failure resulted in a delay with Jeremiah 's papers , forcing the family to remain in China while the three other Vogt children eagerly await their parents and new sibling back home in Colorado .