Uproar in court at murder verdict
http://www.clarepeople.com/2014/11/04/uproar-in-court-at-murder-verdict/

uproar in court at murder verdict  there were unruly scenes at the central criminal court in dublin last week after michael maughan of stone court , ennis , was convicted of murdering piotr nowakowski ( peter nova kovskee ) in ennis last year . supporters of the accused man shouted abuse at the jury and overturned a bench in the court room . it took the jury under 2 and a half hours to unanimously convict michael maughan ( 40 ) of the murder of piotr nowakowski at sandfield mews in ennis in july last year . he had admitted manslaughter . the jury heard he stabbed the polish man twice after they 'd spent the day and night drinking together . in a victim impact statement relatives said his loss is like ' a big sadness taking our soul ' . maughan 's lawyers offered his apologies and said he really regrets what he 's done . justice paul carney imposed the mandatory life sentence for murder and the court rose . after that there was uproar as a couple of michael maughan 's supporters before garda ? intervened to restore order . michael maughan , had pleaded not guilty to murder but guilty to the manslaughter of piotr nowakowski , aged 31 , at sandfield mews , ennis , on july 23 , 2013 . the central criminal court was told that the manslaughter plea was not acceptable to the prosecution and a jury was sworn in for the one-week trial . maughan had also pleaded not guilty to assaulting declan o'dea at the same address on the same date . the jury of seven men and five women found him guilty on both counts by unanimous decision after two hours and 23 minutes . mr justice paul carney handed down the mandatory life sentence for the murder to run concurrently with four years for the assault . he backdated both sentences to july 24 , 2013 , for time spent in custody . mr nowakowski was stabbed twice and died in an ambulance on the way to shannon airport , from where he was to be airlifted to hospital in cork . the court heard that maughan and his brother had been drinking with that day and returned there that night . he told garda ? he was angry when he was not allowed in . he said he lifted his brother in through a window so he could let him in the front door . maughan told garda ? that he went into the bedroom where mr o'dea and mr nowakowski were asleep . after mr nowakowski followed him into to the kitchen , he got paranoid and grabbed a carving knife from the counter . he told garda ? he " just went berserk " and he stabbed him twice in the side . the court heard the deceased received several blows and was stabbed before receiving a further kick to the head .