Government must scrap water charges - Adams
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/politics/government-must-scrap-water-charges-adams-1.1987454

Government must scrap water charges - Adams  Sinn F ? in leader accuses Coalition of arrogant bullying tactics  Sinn F ? in leader Gerry Adams has said he changed his mind about paying water charges after taking part in a protest march in Dundalk last week .  Sinn F ? in leader Gerry Adams has said he changed his mind about paying water charges after taking part in a protest march in Dundalk last week .  When Sinn F ? in launched its pre-budget submission last month , Mr Adams , Mary-Lou McDonald and other senior party figures said they would pay water charges .  " When I was on the march in Dundalk the week of recess meeting with people , an awful lot of people are afraid , an awful lot , particularly older people who ca n't pay and are wondering what is going to happen , " Mr Adams said .  " And it 's in solidarity with them that I changed my position . The arrogant bullying tactics of the government on this issue . The "  Speaking to reporters on the plinth outside Leinster House this afternoon , Mr Adams described as " patronising " Minister for Finance Michael Noonan 's remark that people would leave the lights on if electricity was free .  Mr Adams accused Taoiseach Enda Kenny of being deferential to big bankers while " ignoring the plight of the small people " .  He said elderly people were respectful and law abiding and did not want to be in debt , but they could not afford to pay another bill .  " On this issue nothing will suffice but the scrapping of water charges , " Mr Adams said .  Sinn F ? in deputy leader Mary Lou McDonald said the party was not telling people what to do about their Irish Water bills .  " We do that borne from bitter experience where others told people not to pay various charges and compounded the difficulties people were in , " she said .  Ms McDonald announced at the weekend she would not pay her bill .  The party 's environment spokesperson Brian Stanley referendum to ensure that control over the water services remains in public ownership .