Calor sign up for multi-station sponsorship with IRS+
http://radiotoday.ie/2014/12/calor-sign-up-for-multi-station-sponsorship-with-irs/

calor , ireland 's leading supplier of lpg ( liquified petroleum gas ) products , has announced a ? 300,000 sponsorship deal with seven independent local radio stations under the irs+ banner for 2015 .  irs+ represents the majority of ireland 's independent stations and , as part of the deal , calor will sponsor iconic shows on kclr fm , kildare fm , south east , midlands , nova , tipp fm and midwest radio .  shows such as drivetime on south east radio , morning glory on radio nova and classic hits on midwest radio are part of the sponsorship package .  this is calor 's first move into radio show sponsorship with irs+ and the spread has been designed to give maximum coverage to the client across 12 counties on stations with a weekly reach of over 584,000 .  the campaign planned by omd in conjunction with calor has been developed to communicate with the rural domestic and business sectors , positioning calor as an energy provider which connects communities , no matter where they live .  speaking about said : " we are delighted with the reach that we are able to achieve with this partnership , as it brings us directly in touch with our target consumer in the domestic and business markets . "  omd account director oilbhe doyle added : " calor has never underestimated the power of local radio and its ability to really get into the heart of rural ireland . the decision to move into the realm of sponsorship allows calor to forge deeper relationships in the regions and to deepen their connection with local communities " .  irs+ ceo peter smyth said that the stations that operate under the irs+ banner now have the highest average quarter hour listenership ( 275,000 ) for the prime 9am-11am slot , 25,000 ahead of rte , adding : " the partnership with calor is testament to the continued growth of independent local radio stations , which now have almost 1.1million listeners weekly . independent local radio is a prime influencer and powerful force in irish life and most of our stations outside of dublin have the highest listenership within their franchise areas . recently announced the latest step in their digital consolidation process , which will see them handle agency sales for ireland 's largest internationally-based website irishcentral , which boasts over 4.6 million page views a month . they have also announced the addition of digital out of home network supplier ipc digital media to its roster.