Live Cricket Score of India vs West Indies, 2nd Test, Day 5 at ...
http://www.cricbuzz.com/cricket-news/81810/live-cricket-score-of-india-vs-west-indies-2nd-test-day-5-at-kingston-jamaica

At the end of a hard-fought Test match , West Indies managed to get out of jail and keep the series alive . Join us again on Tuesday ( August 9 ) as the stage shifts to Darren Sammy National Cricket Stadium in Gros Islet , St. Lucia for the third Test .  Chase the MOM :  Roston Chase , who picked up 5 for 121 before scoring an unbeaten 137 to help West Indies secure a draw , was the obvious choice for the Man of the Match award . This is what he had to say at the presentation ceremony , after bagging the MoM award in only his second Test :  Chase : It was a great feeling . I could help my side draw a Test match . A fifer and a hundred , I could n't have asked for anything better . I 'm equally capable of batting and bowling but I enjoy my batting more . It 's a nice feeling , I know it 's a crucial game and just keep learning with every day . The fought hard till the end , Dowrich unfortunately fell short . I 'm happy with the draw but I would have liked a win .  Captains ' Comments :  Virat Kohli : Testing . That 's what Test cricket is all about . Have to give credit to West Indies the way they played . You require someone to step up in these occasions and Roston just did that for West Indies . Our bowlers bowled their best , unfortunately could n't get through . The hardness of the ball was a factor on day five . You need to be a bit more patient on day five . The idea was to get wickets somehow , somewhere because they were playing for the draw . West Indies batted really well . We gave our best shot even after tea . The five bowlers , they have tried everything and if the opposition plays well a couple of sessions , you just have to take your hat off and say well played . Because we had the luxury of runs , we went attacking throughout the day . We 's such a quality player overseas . Even KL Rahul played very well . He either gets single-digit scores or tons .  Jason Holder : Guys really improved a lot . Really enjoyed the performance . The guys have showed some fight and I had asked them to bat over by over . Blackwood was brilliant with Chase and that 's where it all started for us . Wickets were hard to come by , Indians were really tough . To get them out you need a lot of patience . The bowlers really stuck to the plans and we tried not giving anything away and make it difficult for them . It 's just outstanding ( securing a draw ) . I asked the guys to show fight and some character . Roston to bat like that all day was phenomenal . The crowd have turned in for the last session and I 'm sure all of Jamaica must have enjoyed . Just remain patient and work hard and success will follow .  First Test match ending in a draw at Sabina Park since 1998 ( 15 Tests Holder 's fine support meant that the Indian skipper decided to shake hands after the 104th over . A disappointed Kohli led his team off the field as West Indies ended their second innings at 388 for 6 with Chase unbeaten on 137 off 269 deliveries and Holder on 94 not out off 99 .  Fifty for Holder , Century stand :  With a six over long-off off Ashwin in the 98th over Holder went on to register a fine half-century . The century stand came up in the 104th over when Chase scored a couple off Ashwin .  Defiance continues :  The Indian bowlers tried hard and even induced a few play-and-misses , but nothing went India 's way as West Indies ' defiance continued with the seventh-wicket stand steering the hosts towards safety . The 350 came up for West Indies in the 93rd over when Holder took a single off Ishant .  One final effort from Shami and Ishant after tea but Chase and Holder are slowly taking West Indies towards the safety zone #WIvIND  The second new ball was taken as in tandem . They were n't unable to produce any breakthrough despite Holder struggling on a couple of occasions . The seventh-wicket pair remained unbeaten , having added 34 runs , to take West Indies to 319 for 6 at tea , leading by 15 runs .  As was the case with the first session , West Indies lost only one wicket in the second session with Chase coming up with a splendid effort . Dowrich and Holder gave him good support as the hosts managed to wipe out the deficit and ensured that India would have to bat again should West Indies lose their remaining wickets . India tried hard for wickets , using different bowling combinations , but none worked for the visitors , who were frustrated yet again at the end of a session . The hour after tea would be crucial as any further defiance from the hosts would dent India 's hopes for a 2-0 lead .  Deficit wiped out :  Jason Holder , the next man in , was n't afraid to play his shots as well . With a couple of brought the deficit down to single digits . The deficit came down further when Chase hit two fours in successive overs off Ashwin . A single off the off spinner in the 79th over helped West Indies wipe out deficit .  In only his second Test , Chase , who picked up a fifer , followed it up with a defiant ton when he reached the three-figure mark with a single off Ashwin in the 73rd over .  Mishra breaks defiant stand :  The sixth-wicket partnership , worth 144 runs , finally came to an end when Dowrich was give out leg-before to Mishra in the 72nd over . Much to the disappointment of the batsman , who headed back for 74 , replays revealed a clear inside edge .  Dropped :  Rahane put in the dive with outstretched hands at first slip after Dowrich edged a Mishra delivery in the 66th over . However , the batsman had a lucky break as the catch was put down by Rahane . Chase , meanwhile , continued positively , dealing in regular boundaries as he moved into the 60th over , Dowrich registered his third Test fifty , taking 78 deliveries to get there . Dowrich then scored three off Ashwin in the following over to extend the partnership past 100 .  Umesh Yadav and Ishant Sharma were generating reverse swing at the start of the post-lunch session . But the batsmen were up to the task and Dowrich even managed two successive fours off Yadav to enter the 40s . With a four off Ishant soon after , Dowrich was four short of a half-century and the four overs in the second session yielded 20 runs .  Tough situation for Kohli now , something which Dhoni faced many times in test matches when his bowlers bowled for 2nd time #WIvIND  Blackwood , Chase and Dowrich came up with excellent knocks to keep the Indian bowlers at bay in the first session on day five . Blackwood approached day five with a positive intent , taking on the bowlers to come up with a counter-attacking 63 off 54 balls . While Ashwin managed to end his stay , Chase and Dowrich remained defiant , adding take West Indies to 215 for 5 . Having brought down the deficit to 89 , the pair will be hoping to continue the good work in an attempt to make India bat again .  As far as the Indian bowlers were concerned , they mostly blew hot and cold , and could only pick up one wicket in the session . It was a frustrating first session for the visitors , who will be hoping to come back strong after the lunch break .  The last WI player before ROSTON CHASE to score a fifty &amp; take 5-fer in the same Test was Dwayne Bravo v Aus in Adelaide in 2005. #WIvIND  Having picked up his maiden five-wicket haul on day three , Chase 's fine run in the game continued as he brought up his first Test fifty when he scored a four off Mishra in the 41st over . Chase received good support from Dowrich as they raised a half-century stand to help West Indies past 200 in the 50th over .  Chase takes over :  Following the dismissal of Blackwood , Chase all parts of the park . Mishra bore the brunt of the attack as he conceded a four and a six in the 37th over , and Chase also hit a boundary off Ashwin to enter the 40s .  Blackwood 's explosive outing finally came to an end when he fell to Ashwin in the 34th over . The batsman got an inside edge and saw Pujara hold on to a good , low catch at short-leg . Blackwood departed for a 54-ball 63 , leaving West Indies at 141 for 5 .  Jermaine Blackwood 's 41-ball 50 is the second fastest for WI vs IND after 32-ball 50 by Viv Richards in Kingston in 1983. #WIvIND  Coming down the track to Ashwin in the 30th over , Blackwood hit one straight into the sight-screen for his second six off the innings . A single in the same over helped Blackwood register 41-ball fifty , his second half-century of the game .  Missed chance :  R Ashwin , introduced into the attack for the first time on day five , had an opportunity to send back , hit one straight back at the bowler , who was late to the ball and decided to back off at the last moment .  Fifty-run stand :  After beginning with a maiden , Ishant conceded a boundary each in his following overs . The second four , which came off Blackwood 's bat , took West Indies to 100 while extending the fifth-wicket stand past 50 .  Positive Blackwood :  Blackwood dealt in a flurry of boundaries as he took the fight back to the Indian bowlers . Shami was at the receiving end of Blackwood 's blitz as the batsman scored two fours off the right-arm seamer in the 18th over before hitting two fours and a six in his following over as India conceded 40 runs in 4.1 overs in the morning session on day five .  Kohli immediately decided to remove Shami off the attack and introduced Ishant Sharma and Umesh Yadav in tandem . The pacers were tidy , but they did n't trouble the West Indian batsmen much as the hosts closed in on the 100-run mark .  Appeal remaining in his over , began with a huge appeal for caught-behind off the first ball of day five . Much to the relief of Roston Chase , umpire Ian Gould felt there was no bat involved , although there was some noise . In the following over , Jermaine Blackwood had a lucky break as he got an inside edge off Amit Mishra which just landed wide of Cheteshwar Pujara at shot-leg . In the same over , Chase managed a boundary off the leg spinner to get off the mark .  Rain played spoilsport on day four as only 15.5 overs were possible during the day . However , it was time enough for the visitors to prise out the West Indian top-four in the limited time available between several rain breaks . Tropical storm Earl 's devastation though is only limited to the fourth day as sunny conditions are in store for both teams when they take the field on the fifth and final day of the second Test in Kingston , Jamaica .  West Indies start day five at 48 for 4 , still 256 unbeaten overnight and West Indies will be hoping the he along with the rest of the middle-order batsmen , put up a defiant show and keep the Indian bowlers at bay for as long as possible . For India , Mohammed Shami was the star on day four , coming up with a testing spell and going on to pick up two wickets . He will be expected to make further inroads and wrap things up as quickly as possible .