Swedish researchers find obesity might not increase risk of heart ...
http://www.domain-b.com/technology/Health_Medicine/20160803_heart_attack.html

swedish researchers have found that obesity might not increase the risk of heart attack or premature death , in a finding that goes against accepted belief .  in the study which involved identical twins , researchers looked at cases where one twin was overweight or obese and the other was trimmer .  " the heavier twin had a lower risk of heart attack or death than the leaner twin . however , as expected , the heavier twin had a higher risk of diabetes , " said lead researcher peter nordstrom , chief physician in the department of community medicine and rehabilitation at umea university .  " lifestyle factors that decrease the amount of fatness may not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease or death , although it will reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes , " nordstrom added .  he added , as identical twins were genetically the same , they provided a unique tool for evaluating risks associated with obesity independent of genetics .  according to the us centers for disease control and prevention , obesity was linked to types of cancer .  according to the cdc , obesity-related illness cost the us about $147 billion annually .  around 5 per cent of the twins in the study group reported a heart attack during 12 years of follow-up .  among twins with lower bmi , about 16 per cent died as against 14 per cent of twins with higher bmi . however , heavier twins were around twice as likely to develop diabetes over the study 's length .  " what the study does show is that there 's a strong association between obesity and diabetes , which leads us to conclude that weight reduction interventions can be more effective against diabetes than when it comes to reducing the risk of heart attack and mortality , " said nordstr ? m in a statement .  researchers looked at medical records of more than 4,000 identical twin pairs previously enrolled in a long-running population study . the middle-aged pairs who were tracked for 12 years , had one twin with a higher body mass index ( bmi ) than the other .  the researchers were heart attacks or premature death between the group of twins with higher bmi and the group with lower bmi , even when only obese individuals or twin pairs where the weight difference were considered .  they did find a sustained link between type 2 diabetes risk and higher bmi which supported earlier research .