Death in mall: Police seek 14-day remand of 4 accused
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/raipur/Death-in-mall-Police-seek-14-day-remand-of-4-accused/articleshow/53613229.cms

Death in mall : Police seek 14-day remand of 4 accused  Police on Monday produced four friends of Gaurang Bobde , who have been charged for culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with his mysterious death in a city mall here on July 22 .  TNN Aug 9 , 2016 , 12.46 PM IST  Bilaspur : Police on Monday produced four friends of Gaurang Bobde , who have been charged for culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with his mysterious death in a city mall here on July 22 .  Police asked for a 14-day judicial remand for the accused .  Since none of their families presented any bail application , the accused were sent back to jail . The matter would be heard next on August 22 .  Four friends of the deceased , Ankit Malhotra , Kinghshuk Agrawal , Karan Khushlani and Karan Jaiswal , were brought to the district court premises under tight security .  The four were produced before the court of CJM Vivek Tiwari . Apart from family members of the present in the court . In the meanwhile , police said that investigations are on . Police have sent the hard disk and other footage collected from the mall to Hyderabad for forensic testing . Gaurang 's family , including his father , mother and sister had visited Civil Lines police station and asked for copies of the postmortem report . They were allowed to take pictures of the same on their mobiles .  On July 22 , Gaurang and his friends had partied till late night at a pub in a city mall .  The next morning , Gaurang 's body with multiple injuries was found in the basement of the mall . While none of his friends were with him , they also did not inform his family about the mishap .  He was taken to hospital by guards of the mall , where he was declared brought dead . Following Gaurang 's death , a number of agitations and protests were held over failure of the police to arrest the accused . Gaurang 's family alleged that it was a murder and demanded a CBI other hand , kept impressing that it was not a murder .  They even reconstructed the event with a dummy and declared that the incident was an accident . After a lot of hue and cry was raised over police investigations , police rounded up four of his friends and charged them under part two of Section 304 IPC ( culpable murder not amounting to homicide ) . Senior police officials , including IG Bilaspur range Vivekanand Sinha , have maintained that police investigations into the case are in right direction .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  A village deep in the jungle of Chhattisgarh , where four-wheelers can not reach and the nearest hospital is miles away , help arrived in the form of ' motorcycle ambulance ' just in time , which helped a woman deliver a baby .