Noida: Man held for robbing elderly couple of cash, jewellery at ...
http://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-held-for-robbing-elderly-couple-of-cash-jewellery-at-gunpoint/story-B051Npnidjr4WZU0af5ReI.html

noida : man held for robbing elderly couple of cash , jewellery at gunpoint  abhishek anand , hindustan times , noida   updated : aug 09 , 2016 12:50 ist  noida , india -- august 08 , 2016 : police have arrested one person , allegedly involved in over two dozen criminal cases in the city , in noida , india , on monday , 08 august 2016 . the accused had robbed an elderly couple last year in their house at sector 50 area . ( photo by burhaan kinu / hindustan times ) ( hindustan times )  the city police on sunday arrested a man for his alleged involvement in robbing an elderly couple in sector 50 area in november 2015 .  the accused , pratap kumar , has over half a dozen criminal cases against him in gautam budh nagar . police said his accomplice , surender nagar , has already been arrested and is lodged in jail with over two dozen criminal cases pending against him .  police said , on the evening of november 7 , is still absconding , posed as potential tenants and gained entry to the residence of retired engineer tej bahadur jain . the trio held tej and his wife aruna hostage at gunpoint and robbed them of rs 50,000 cash , 11 gold chains and a chevrolet beat car . the car was later found abandoned in noida . the incident had prompted protests from residents and raised questions over the safety of elderly couples living in the city .  " pratap was on the run after committing the robbery in sector 50 . multiple police teams were searching for him . on sunday , pratap was arrested during a checking drive in sector 52 area , " said dinesh yadav , superintendent of police , noida .  the trio held tej ( left ) and his wife aruna ( centre ) hostage at gunpoint and robbed them of rs 50,000 cash , 11 gold chains and a chevrolet beat car . the car was later found abandoned in noida . ( burhaan kinu/ ht photo )  the police said pratap is a member of a gang that was 2013 . the abductors had demanded a ransom of rs 80 lakh . the boy , however , was recovered safely by the police and some of the gang members arrested .  " during questioning , pratap confirmed his role in the robbery . we have recovered a gold chain , a ring , the mobile phone used in the crime , a countrymade pistol with live cartridges and a stolen bike from his possession . he said he randomly searched for a flat on rent from a property dealer posing as a tenant to commit the crime , " yadav said .  he was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody . the police said they have launched a manhunt to arrest rehan . " he is a resident of kaila bhatta locality in ghaziabad . he will be arrested soon , " yadav said .