City youngsters indulge in book swapping
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/Youngsters-indulge-in-book-swapping/articleshow/53613208.cms

City youngsters indulge in book swapping  Ever participated in a book swap meet ? Wonder what it is all about ? If you have a hunger for knowledge , all your questions will be answered once you attend this meet -- a new trend among city 's young book lovers , where they exchange ideas and swap their favourite books with like-minded people .  Aug 9 , 2016 , 12.51 PM IST  Ever participated in a book swap meet ? Wonder what it is all about ? If you have a hunger for knowledge , all your questions will be answered once you attend this meet -- a new trend among city 's young book lovers , where they exchange ideas and swap their favourite books with like-minded people . From reading out literary classics to indulging in analytical debates on contemporary authors , youngsters have found a creative way to ignite the passion for knowledge . We find out more on this literary trend in city ...  Exchange of ideas Romantic notions are associated with monsoon and it 's deemed to be but the joy doubles when there are like-minded people to give you company . " The first book swap meet organised a couple of months ago received lukewarm response in the city but things started changing slowly and the recent meet-ups turned out well where many youngsters came on board with us . In the light of the recent release of a latest book on Harry Potter , book lovers discussed the book at the meet with a cuppa and it was a sheer joy where all of us were totally engrossed in discussions without the distraction of smartphones . Looking at the great success of these meet-up , we have made it a monthly event , " said one of the organisers of the meet , Sukhada Chaudhary .  Inspires young writers  These book swap meets serve as a great platform for young writers to develop their creative and communication skills . A young writer , Chaitali Bangre , shared : " Young writers in city often do n't get a literary platform where they can share their knowledge and creativity , but with book swap meet-ups catching platform where they also get to know what young readers like to read . "  Expand your worldview  These meet-ups are not only evolving book reading habits among the youngsters in the city , but they also help expand their worldview . " I am glad that youngsters are investing their time to read classic books and indulging in literary debates . Watching television or playing games on smartphones must not be discouraged , but one must balance it all and invest some time exploring the finer nuances of literature too . Books are not only a great companion for anyone wanting to discover the view of a writer , but they expand one 's worldview and nurture critical thinking too , " said litterateur Dr Tapati Dey .  Sharing moments of fun  Interestingly , these rendezvous are also a great way for youngsters to share some lighter moments along with intelligent conversation . " I consider myself to be somewhat reclusive , but when I participated in a book swap meet recently , I was forced to converse with others who love the same things that friends with whom I can connect at intellectual level , " opined an avid book reader and literature student , Ria Shukla .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  A village deep in the jungle of Chhattisgarh , where four-wheelers can not reach and the nearest hospital is miles away , help arrived in the form of ' motorcycle ambulance ' baby .