City cops get tech-savvy with cyber lab
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nashik/City-cops-get-tech-savvy-with-cyber-lab/articleshow/53613006.cms

City cops get tech-savvy with cyber lab  This Independence Day , the city police will move a step forward towards technology with a brand-new , state-of-the-art cyber law investigation laboratory at their disposal from August 15 .  TNN Aug 9 , 2016 , 12.33 PM IST  Representative Image .  NASHIK : This Independence Day , the city police will move a step forward towards technology with a brand-new , state-of-the-art cyber law investigation laboratory at their disposal from August 15 .  This new technology will be a boon for the police , who will from now on be able to crack cases related to cybercrime , economic offences as well as social media crimes at a much faster rate .  At present , police officials have to rely on the cyber lab in Mumbai for making headway into related cases .  With an aim to empower the police force , the state government has hired a Nashik-based company , Kanchan Associates , to provide infrastructure for setting up labs across all districts in the state , which will be inaugurated Day .  The aim behind the move is to build real-time digital media , a data analysis centre and empower the police with an investigation office with 24-hour access to state-of-the-art technology to assist in cracking cyber crime cases . Senior inspector at the technical and analysis wing Anil Pawar said , " Social media crimes , e-mail frauds , credit card and ATM robberies are on the rise . Online lottery scams too are seeing a steady increase . "  " The lab will have a centralised processing cell , regional and zonal centres as well as a centre of excellence for investigation . A co-ordination cell for other activities will also be set up , " he added .  The official further said , " At present , the city police have to send all the data to Kalina in Santa Cruz , Mumbai , to retrieve lost data and make copy of the same for investigation . Having a separate lab at the commissionerate will help save time and speed up investigations especially in case of economic offences . "  Police commissionerate goes hi-tech forensic replica of laptop/storage or mobile device  - Extract existing or deleted data while keeping evidence unaltered  - Search through multiple existing files on a system  2 . Call Detail Records  - Collate structure and unstructured data from various sources into a single cohesive intelligence picture  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  K. Arumugham has become the become hockey player . In 2008 , when India failed to qualify for the Olympics Arumugam decided to do something to change the scenario . Arumugam left his decorous job and founded ' One Thousand Hockey Legs ' .  Irom Shramila Chanu , populary known as the Iron Lady of Manipur , will end her 16-year-long fast against the controversial Armed Forces ( Special Powers ) Act ( AFSPA ) . Sharmila had announced that she is going to marry her boyfriend Desmond Coutinho , an Indian-born British national .