With price cap, 22 drugs get cheaper
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/With-price-cap-22-drugs-get-cheaper/articleshow/53778837.cms

with price cap , 22 drugs get cheaper  sushmi dey  in a move that would make some commonly used cancer drugs , anti-retrovirals and medicines to treat malaria cheaper by up to 45% , the central drug regulator has capped prices of 22 essential medicines with immediate effect .  new delhi : in a move that would make some commonly used cancer drugs , anti-retrovirals and medicines to treat malaria cheaper by up to 45% , the central drug regulator has capped prices of 22 essential medicines with immediate effect .  the price cap announced by national pharmaceutical pricing authority ( nppa ) would bring down maximum retail price or mrp of these medicines down by 10-45% . it is likely to impact prices of nearly 220 medicine brands containing 22 formulations .  for instance , the price of 1ml doxorubicin hcl pegylated liposomal injection -- used in the treatment of different types of cancer including blood , breast , stomach , lungs , ovaries and kidneys -- has been fixed at rs 723.93 , whereas a pack of zoledronic acid infusion will now cost rs 3,609.13 .  " the average price reduction on these drugs would be at least 25% after the latest order , " an official told toi .  the nppa caps prices of essential drugs at the simple average of all medicines in a particular therapeutic segment with sales of more than 1% .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation with the resignation of his chairman paul manafort . meanwhile , trump sought to shift the focus , traveling to flood-ravaged louisiana and releasing his first campaign ad of the general election .