PV Sindhu's silver medal raises hopes of a golden future
http://indianexpress.com/sports/rio-2016-olympics/pv-sindhus-silver-medal-raises-hopes-of-a-golden-future-2986093/

it would be great disservice to a talent as promising as pv sindhu to say that the 21-year-old has given her best at this olympics , and recalibrate her own hopes from self by adding that she would be content with a silver . for a country that had nothing at the olympics for the first 13 days , pv sindhu 's commanding march into the final was as good as gold . except , pv sindhu is such a big contender for gold at tokyo that every step she takes from here on -- including how she processes this silver -- will be seen against that mark .  carolina marin , for one , had decided as soon as london wound down , that rio was to be her games . great players deserve a post-mortem of their silvers -- it 's what has brought perennial silver man lee chong wei his best chance for an olympic gold , beating lin dan .  so while india 's expectations might be satiated from sindhu , the badminton world is expecting grander stuff from her now a stunning run to world no 1 .  for sindhu , now an olympic silver medallist , suddenly all that inconsistency of the last few years feels irrelevant and the lack of super series titles seems a hollow quibble -- the final against marin was a match to file away and keep just like she had so many other defeats that helped chisel her game and experience going into rio .  on friday , against marin , sindhu failed to attack the spaniard 's backhand -- a weakness that can be a little confusing since she 's a left-hander . against nozomi okuhara in the semifinals , sindhu had attacked the japanese girl 's backhand and ended the challenge marching into the final . today , sindhu would keep hitting at marin 's forehand -- giving her easy plum chances to put away .  there were crosscourt smashes -- the ones that she did n't use as kills that became easy for marin to pick because they lobbed onto her ready , busy , hyper forehand . the down the line smashes though -- that could have troubled sindhu 's first set 21-19 win could float on and end in a victory .  marin was two notches better on the day -- prancing around the court in easy movement and with a better shot selection and tactical nous at all times . marin has that effect on players : she can cause panic by just being left-handed even before she starts her celebrating , yowling routine that actually gets her into a lot of perception trouble with the chair umpire .  but maybe it was sindhu 's angle of shots -- that 's always been this -- going on the backhand of the right-hander , leaving a ferocious player like marin free to run riot on her forehand .  the spaniard would take the lead , and then even if she lost a few in a bunch , she always seemed to know she was capable of finishing it off . the first set was almost gifted to a pugnacious sindhu who was there to pounce onto it as soon as it appeared . marin 's errors and some high-risk stubborn badminton at the net meant in fact has been throughout this olympic . not many would guess she was at her first .  yet she will kick herself for not exploiting marin 's backhand chinks enough . marin fundamentally has always found it comfortable to play sindhu because the attack does n't dent her too much , though gopi and sindhu had some effective plans to stay in the long rallies and plant doubts in marin 's mind .  sindhu would retrieve well , but her smash -- whether opening or the kill -- found a wall in marin 's dogged defense , even as her backhand side was n't tested .  looking back , a silver for sindhu , a dark horse this olympics seems extra-ordinary . yet looking ahead , the next rung of bigger titles will be expected to show up in succession now .  yet , sindhu 's left a mark on the world . affable and conducting herself with a lot of grace , sindhu is a popular figure on the circuit and wears her achievements lightly . she 's buddies with some of the chinese and from a chinese masseuse .  it has helped that saina nehwal has left her a clutch of goals to chase , and she has shown she can outdo india 's best -- padukone , gopichand or nehwal -- for she has the talent and the flair and the physique .  technically there 's much to learn that will make her an even bigger player . taking time between points , managing her centre of gravity and her speed . and the inconsistency is expected to be shrugged off .  yet india will not forget her long , hard paced rallies , the power with which she played and that dipping smash . the smash of a champ . worthy of a gold medal .