MP Ering to initiate early release of MsDP fund
http://www.arunachaltimes.in/mp-ering-to-initiate-early-release-of-msdp-fund/

MP Ering to initiate early release of MsDP fund  CHANGLANG , Aug 19 : Member of Parliament Ninong Ering said that he would take up with the appropriate Ministry for early release of funds , especially under MsDP . Chairing the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee ( DDCMC ) meeting of Changlang District at DC 's conference hall here on Friday , Ering said that submission of DDCMC meeting minutes is vital for release of fund against the schemes . He also said that quarterly meetings need to be conducted on time . Highlighting the aims and objective of DDCMC , Ering said that the Committee has been created for effective coordination and development of Central Government 's programme for infrastructure development . The main purpose of the committee is to coordinate with Central and State Governments and local Panchayat , he said . The Committee will monitor the implementation of various schemes and programmes of Union Ministry of Rural Development and other Ministries . The MP also announced Rs. 25 , 00 , 000 for construction of Tutsa Multipurpose Community Hall at Laktong village all the works as per specification in Draft Project Report . Asking for more sincerity and dedication in delivering services from them he stressed upon that field staff is detailed on continuous basis to monitor and ensure the exact implementation of the projects . He asked all the HoDs to make the local leaders aware of the Schemes and fund sanctioned through their department for necessary guidance and proper monitoring of its implementation . He also asked the department concerned to take necessary action to resume the enrolment work of ADHAAR Card generation soon in the district as 40 percent area has only been covered . MLA Changlang North Tesam Pongte stressed that Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana be implemented in toto stating that many villagers and students are facing problems in availing govt schemes and facilities due to non availability of their personal bank account . He also expressed need of local leaders making aware of the Schemes and fund sanctioned through their department for necessary guidance and proper monitoring . Earlier , Deputy Commissioner Wayong Khimhun informed that despite many natural hindrances and challenges the departments are doing their . He hoped that with the guidance of elected representatives the departments will perform better in the days to come . All the concerned HoDs , Changlang gave Power Point Presentation on the status of MGNREGA , PMAY-G , SBM-G , NRuM , DDUGJY , UDAY , Jal Marg Vikas Yojana , PMAY ( Housing for all ) , SBM , Smart City Mission , AMRUT , DDAY , PMUY-LPG , DDU-GKY , PMKVY , PMGSY , NSAP , ICDS , NRDWP , PMKSY , PMFBY , NLRMP , HRIDAY , NHM , SSA , MDM &amp; Digital India-Public Internet Access Programme schemes and discussed thoroughly in the meeting . Many schemes to be monitored by DDCMC were found new and yet to get correspondence by the concerned department from the State and Central Govt. for further implementation . DIPRO  COMMENTS  Disclaimer :  Thank you for your valued thoughts and views . But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments , so please do abstain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory and do not indulge in personal attacks . We request our follow the prescribed guidelines as above , by writing to us at Comments Section .