Sketches hint at link between Vastrapur, Anandnagar robberies
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Sketches-hint-at-link-between-Vastrapur-Anandnagar-robberies/articleshow/53803333.cms

sketches hint at link between vastrapur , anandnagar robberies  in an attempt to examine possible link between two major robberies involving the same cash collection agency that took place last month city police got the victims to describe the robbers . they took the help of artists to prepare sketches of the three criminals involved .  tnn aug 22 , 2016 , 07.10 am ist  ahemdabad : in an attempt to examine possible link between two major robberies involving the same cash collection agency that took place last month city police got the victims to describe the robbers . they took the help of artists to prepare sketches of the three criminals involved .  " both the cases have a number of similarities - the collection agents were not on their usual route , they belonged to the same firm and the incident took place at a spot without major cctv coverage , " said an official .  on july 25 , vajitkumar thakor , 24 , of ambli who works with writer safeguard pvt ltd as a collection agent , had one mall . on his way to vastrapur lake he was stopped by a person looking like a policeman . just then two men came on a bike and snatched his bag containing the cash .  on august 16 , ajay yadav , 20 , of sabarmati who works as the custodian with writer safeguard pvt ltd , had got rs 5.04 lakh from various business establishments and was going towards prahladnagar road . when the van slowed down near aashirwad bungalows , three persons with a gun and a knife on bike stopped the van and snatched the bag containing cash .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  just near the beds of the maternity ward at government multispecialty hospital , chandigarh lies a pile of rubble that authorities have no time to remove , exposing pregnant women and their newborn babies to the risk of serious infection .