Sedition rumours had plagued 'Saraswatichandra'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/Sedition-rumours-had-plagued-Saraswatichandra/articleshow/53803351.cms

sedition rumours had plagued ' saraswatichandra '  ahmedabad : it proved to be one of the most agonizing moments in the life of govardhanram tripathi , when the third part of his magnum opus ' saraswatichandra ' was being published in bombay in 1898 .  rumours of his arrest for writing seditious material in this part of the novel spread like wildfire . the third part of the original 2,200 page and four-part novel dealt with statecraft in which tripathi displays tremendous courage deliberating on the impact of british rule on native states in the light of the 1857 revolution .  this fact was brought to light for the first time from tripathi 's personal ' scrap book ' , which was researched by sabarmati ashram director tridip suhrud . he has already translated three of the four parts of tripathi 's novel into english , 128 years after the publication of the original . the fourth part of the novel will be out shortly .  soon after rumours of his arrest began , tripathi 's wife , mother and sister spent two him . in his scrap book tripathi asked , " was it a mistake to have written a book which has so disturbed the peace and happiness of my family ? what is my duty ? to boldly write such a book for my people , or secure the peace of my family against such contingency . "  " a large section of this part of the novel described british policy and questioned whether to support such a rule , said suhrud . " the british through their ' petty ' officials especially in saurashtra were arbitrating disputes between various princely states and practically governing the ruling class . "  " tripathi had critically analysed the treatise that the british signed with different states and also projected its possible fallout - that of depreciation of native states , " said suhrud . " there was a public perception that the novel exposed the ulterior design behind british policies . "  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  just near the beds of the maternity ward at government multispecialty hospital , chandigarh lies a pile of rubble that authorities have no time to remove , exposing pregnant women and their newborn babies to the risk of serious infection .