Woman shot dead in 'robbery bid'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/Woman-shot-dead-in-robbery-bid/articleshow/53850990.cms

woman shot dead in ' robbery bid '  tnn aug 25 , 2016 , 01.12 am ist  ghaziabad : a 30-year-old woman was killed in her house in loni 's naveen kunj on wednesday morning . the victim , nishaira , wife of a cable operator , was allegedly shot dead by robbers , her husband , usman ali , claimed . police , however , suspect enmity to be the reason behind the murder .  anil kumar yadav , dsp , said , " we received a call from the victim 's husband at 9.45am saying his wife was shot in her house and that she was being taken to gtb hospital in delhi . later we came to know that nishaira had succumbed to her injuries on the way . when we questioned the neigbours we came to know that she was killed while resisting a robbery bid . nothing was missing from the house , though . "  usman ali , the woman 's husband , told the police that he had received death theats from local goons in the ali 's fourth wife and the couple has a two-and-a-half-month-old son . " his first wife , sitara , was found dead under mysterious circumstances seven years ago . he divorced his second and third wives , " a neighbour said , adding , " with such a history there is definitely something fishy in the murder of nishaira . "  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to panjab university turned into a classroom , where eminent poet , lyricist and film maker gulzar interacted with students , faculty and staff as the tagore chair professor . a nazam ( couplet ) as the answer to every question that was asked to him , was the usp of his classroom .