One more held for attack on Teotia
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/One-more-held-for-attack-on-Teotia/articleshow/53850963.cms

one more held for attack on teotia  tnn aug 25 , 2016 , 01.09 am ist  ghaziabad : one more suspect -- a lifer currently out on bail -- has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the attack on local bjp leader brijpal teotia even as the main conspirators behind the plot continue to evade arrest .  a joint team of the up police 's special task force and the ghaziabad district police arrested jogender rajput alias babbal ( 35 ) from new ghaziabad railway station at 11.30 pm on tuesday . a .32 bore semi-automatic pistol , allegedly used by babbal to fire at teotia 's vehicle during the attack in muradnagar , has been recovered from him .  teotia and his posse of gunmen and aides were travelling in two scorpios on rawli road on august 11 when they were attacked . the assailants following them in two fortuner suvs opened fire , including from an ak-47 . all six persons , including teotia , had survived the attack albeit with serious gunshot injuries .  cops said babbal , hired by the main conspirators -- manish and manoj -- to eliminate teotia . he had been convicted in a 2002 murder case in lajpat nagar police station area . he was sentenced to life in jail , but is out on bail granted by the delhi high court .  " babbal had been involved with manish and manoj since the past four months in planning the attack on teotia . he was amongst those who had opened fire on teotia . investigations have revealed that the ak-47 rifle had been brought by manish , " ghaziabad ssp ks emmanuel told toi .  teotia 's family members fear another attack  with the main conspirators being still at large , the family members of teotia , who is still admitted to the fortis hospital in noida , have informed ghaziabad police that they perceive the likelihood of yet another attack on him .  on tuesday , his family members submitted a clipping of cctv footage to ghaziabad police , which purportedly shows two suspicious persons loitering near the hospital room in which teotia is recuperating .  " teotia 's room to be allowed inside . however , family members who were attending upon him could not recognise the men . they sent the two men downstairs to the lobby to meet me . however , they were later not to be seen anywhere , " brijpal teotia 's younger brother , vikas , said .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation into a classroom , where eminent poet , lyricist and film maker gulzar interacted with students , faculty and staff as the tagore chair professor . a nazam ( couplet ) as the answer to every question that was asked to him , was the usp of his classroom .