Bizman's kin robbed of Rs 70 lakh
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ludhiana/Bizmans-kin-robbed-of-Rs-70-lakh/articleshow/53850938.cms

Bizman 's kin robbed of Rs 70 lakh  Unidentified armed miscreants struck at a house in broad daylight and decamped with gold jewellery and cash.Losses have been valued at Rs 70 lakh .  TNN Aug 25 , 2016 , 01.08 AM IST  ( Representative image )  LUDHIANA : Unidentified armed miscreants struck at a house in broad daylight and decamped with gold jewellery and cash . Losses have been valued at Rs 70 lakh .  The victim , Raj Kumar of Model Town , who owns an electronics showroom in Sunder Nagar area of Jodhewal and is a distributor for a reputed electronic company in Ludhiana and Moga district said he , along with his two sons , Pankaj and Sunny Agnihotri , left for work at 9.15 am on Wednesday . Around 12.21 pm , he said he got a call from his wife Pushpa saying five armed men held them at gunpoint and decamped with 200 tola gold ( 2 kgs ) and at least Rs 12 lakh cash .  " We rushed home after that and found that me the assailants entered the house at around 11.30 am saying they were policemen and wanted to check the house . Two of them were wearing khaki turbans , white shirt and khakhi trousers . After that , they rounded up my family members , including wife , daughters-in-law Heena and Ishu , the maids , Neetu , 22 , who has been with the family for 12 years , Shashi , who was hired one and a half months ago and Moni , a temporary maid working for the last one and a half years . One of the miscreants pointed a gun at the women and snatched their mobiles while the other four went from room to room , collecting gold jewellery from our bedroom and the bedrooms of my sons on the first floor . They even took a safe with Rs 10 lakh apart from Rs 2 lakh they collected from almirahs " , Raj Kumar said .  He also said the miscreants locked the women in a toilet on the ground floor before leaving . The women said they waited for 10 minutes after being out by pushing the door hard . The miscreants had left by then and they called the men of the family .  Police said the miscreants told his wife they are from Gujarat police and have come to make inquiries into the Asaram case . The Gujarat and Delhi police had previously earlier raided victim 's house when they were on the lookout for Narayan Sai in 2013 in rape and sexual exploitation cases .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  The law auditorium of Panjab University turned into a classroom , where eminent poet , lyricist and film maker Gulzar interacted with students , faculty and staff as the Tagore Chair professor . A nazam ( couplet ) as the answer to every question that was asked to him , was the USP of his classroom .