Dacoits kill farmer couple in Ale
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Pune/Dacoits-kill-farmer-couple-in-Ale/articleshow/53892294.cms

dacoits kill farmer couple in ale  a farmer couple from the sakore village near ale off pune-nasik highway , about 90 km from here , was murdered by unidentified dacoits in the early hours of saturday.the murders came to light at around 11.45am .  tnn aug 28 , 2016 , 01.46 am ist  pune : a farmer couple from the sakore village near ale off pune-nasik highway , about 90 km from here , was murdered by unidentified dacoits in the early hours of saturday .  the murders came to light at around 11.45am . the dacoits attacked the duo with axe-like weapon .  ale police station has identified the deceased couple as shankar bhimaji pansare ( 45 ) and his wife sangeeta ( 40 ) , both residents of pansaremala in sakore village . the couple stayed in a secluded house near their farm .  police said the suspects had entered their house around midnight and stole valuables . the couple woke up to the sound of the suspects leaving . the suspects attacked them with an axe when they in their porch .  pansare 's brother dadabhai has lodged a complaint with the police . superintendent of police , pune rural , jay jadhav and additional superintendent of police , pune rural , rajkumar shinde visited the spot . police said that the couple used to work in their farms and were progressive farmers .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil @