Sunday Interview: 'Poor women are exploited in the name of ...
http://www.deccanchronicle.com/opinion/op-ed/280816/sunday-interview-poor-women-are-exploited-in-the-name-of-surrogacy-it-must-end.html

sunday interview : ' poor women are exploited in the name of surrogacy ... it must end '  the poor and vulnerable women are being exploited in the name of surrogacy and paid a very small amount for renting out their wombs .  dr soumya swaminathan  the surrogacy ( regulation ) bill 2016 , cleared by the union cabinet , has been criticised by doctors and gay rights activists as " anti-liberal " . dr soumya swaminathan , director-general of the indian council of medical research , who had an important role in drafting the bill , in a candid talk with teena thacker justifies the new legislation citing how it will end exploitation of poor and vulnerable , and will actually help needy infertile indian couples .  why did the government decide to take up the issue of surrogacy , leaving behind all other assisted reproductive technologies , given the fact that the proposed assisted reproduc-tive technology bill was in making since 2008 ?  there were many parliamentary assurances and a pil in the supreme court was also filed , asking to regulate this growing and booming industry . now that the first stage has passed , we will soon put our minds on bringing a legislation to regulate other forms of art , like ivf , sperm banks , embryo transfers , etc .  since the surrogacy bill talks only about altruistic surrogacy , how would you define " close relatives " ? there is still a long process to go before the bill is finally passed by parliament . there will be rules and the definition of " close relatives " that will be defined in the rules , will be framed soon .  do n't you think that the law explicitly discriminates homosexuals ?  no , this is a side issue . there is a very small proportion of people needing surrogacy . gay people have an option of adoption . so it 's not that all the doors are closed for them .  when a single man can adopt a child then why he is not allowed to go for surrogacy ? do n't you think that both adoption rules and surrogacy bill contradict a man can only adopt a male child . however , in surrogacy it is not possible , as one can not predict in surrogacy whether the child will be a girl or a boy .  in many families , when a child is born out of surrogacy , not even immediate blood relatives of the couple get to know due to social ostracisation . how-ever , the proposed bill will make the identity of the surrogate mother open not only to the family , but to others as well . do n't you think it 's giving too much information to everyone , and puts one 's privacy at stake ?  it is happening in india and many other countries where a close relative is a surrogate mother . there have not been any documented problems , so i do n't think it will affect relationships or privacy of any individual or a couple .  how did you come to the conclusion that the couple had to be married for five years before approaching for surrogacy ? five years is a reasonable time for any couple to you want to give time to a couple so that surrogacy can be used as a last option and five years is a pretty good time .  do n't you think that altruistic surrogacy only through close relatives will lead to a complex situation later in life of both , the surrogate mother and the child born out of surrogacy ?  this has been a cultural practice in india for a long time -- family members giving birth to babies and handing over to infertile relatives . so far , there have been no problems documented from either side . therefore , predicting or assuming such problems is too farfetched .  the draft bill also talks of establishing a national surrogacy board and state surrogacy boards and will designate authorities at the district level to review the eligibility of couples inten-ding to engage surrogates . how will it work ?  there will be rules that will be framed soon . the national surrogacy board will work under the chairmanship of the union health minister and the state boards will have a dg level officer , a representative . the surrogacy clinics will have to be registered under these boards at both levels .  infertility groups have criticised the proposed law saying it could lead to an illegal industry . your comment .  laws will need to be implemented properly , like any other rules or regulations in the country . proper implementation of law is important to safeguard such apprehensions .  various ivf experts have also been saying that the bill would end up denying millions of indian women the opportunity to take advantage of advancements in medical science . what do you think ?  there are other reproductive technologies available and have not been banned yet .  for some women , surrogacy is a means to earn livelihood . when you decided to ban commercial surrogacy , did you take into consideration this aspect and such women ? do n't you think it 's unfair as poor women were able to earn a good amount of money ?  there was an issue of exploitation of surrogate mother and the issue of abandonment of the child was another major concern . the of surrogacy and paid a very small amount for renting out their wombs . a majority of these women do n't understand the legal documents being drawn up for their services . the new bill , once enacted , will abolish that practice . in any case , selling your body should not be a livelihood option and the new legislation will tighten the noose .  whether a couple wants to go for surrogacy , first child , second child , disabled child , are individual decisions . do n't you think restricting it seems like too much of dictating ?  surrogacy is generally used as a last option . through this legislation , the government is only trying to restrict surrogacy and not let it be an easy method for people who have other options .