Waste management knot still tight
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/Waste-management-knot-still-tight/articleshow/53892304.cms

waste management knot still tight  the civic body 's ambitious project to segregate garbage involving distribution of two trash bins to each household over a year ago seems to have run out of steam .  aug 28 , 2016 , 01.48 am ist  pipri chinchwad : the civic body 's ambitious project to segregate garbage involving distribution of two trash bins to each household over a year ago seems to have run out of steam .  a major reason for the project 's failure until now has been the private employees appointed by the pimpri chinchwad municipal corporation ( pcmc ) to collect the garbage and mix the segregated waste while transporting it .  as many as 400 special hopper vans have been customized with separate compartments for dry and wet garbage . each vehicle costs rs4.2 lakh and had been purchased under the jawaharlal nehru national urban mission ( jnnurm ) five years ago . however , even if garbage is segregated at source , it is dumped together in the vehicles . over the past year , pcmc the municipal .  incidentally , the bombay high court on monday directed civic bodies and district councils in the state to make it mandatory to segregate dry and wet garbage at source for better waste management . the direction was passed by a division bench of justice v m kanade while hearing a public interest litigation by pune residents harshwardhan modak and vinod patil . the pil raised concerns about pune municipal corporation 's failure on part of the pune municipal corporation ( pmc ) to effectively dispose waste .  over 9.3 lakh small garbage buckets , of seven litre capacity , ) - coloured green and white - have been distributed to each of the 4.5 lakh households . mayor shakuntala dharade launched the initiative on republic day last year in kasarwadi . the mayor had then said that a major problem in the city is one of the important problems facing the city is collection and disposal of garbage and segregated waste must be given to door-to-door garbage collectors .  pcmc has appointed private contractors in six zones where workers using the hopper rickshaws mix garbage . none , a resident of kasarwadi , said , " we only use one garbage bin . most houses in the neighbourhood do the same . even if we segregate , waste collectors mix the garbage . there is no point in segregating garbage at source . "  solid waste management rules state that garbage must be segregated and processed to reduce the load on dumping grounds . this must be done at source and then the garbage can be sent for processing . the civic body 's dumping ground at moshi has both vermicomposting and mechanical composting facilities .  assistant commissioner and health department chief yashwant mane said pcmc will invite bids to appoint a contractor shortly for the work of primary and secondary garbage collection as well as public awareness with regards to garbage segregation . pcmc and the contractor will create public awareness . the civic body collects around 750 to 800 tonnes of garbage everyday .  dharade reiterated that people should segregate garbage at source . " large residential societies must implement vermicompost projects . if segregated at source , it will reduce the civic garbage . "  ruling party leader mangala kadam said a meeting will be held with the pcmc to speed up implementation of garbage segregation at source .  at the other end of the spectrum , some residents have taken the initiative and are already reaping benefits . chairman of roseland housing society santosh maskar said , " the citizens must implement garbage segregation at source . we made it mandatory for residents to do so and now are using wet garbage as fertilizer for potted plants . "  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .