Decision to order firing in Ayodhya painful: Mulayam Singh Yadav
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/lucknow/Decision-to-order-firing-in-Ayodhya-painful-Mulayam-Singh-Yadav/articleshow/53892287.cms

Decision to order firing in Ayodhya painful : Mulayam Singh Yadav  Samajwadi Party president Mulayam Singh Yadav on Saturday said he regretted ordering the police to fire at kar sevaks in Ayodhya , in 1991 , and added it was a decision he was forced to take in the larger interest of the nation 's " unity " and to ensure that the Muslim minority did not lose faith in India 's secular fabric .  TNN Aug 28 , 2016 , 01.44 AM IST  Lucknow : Samajwadi Party president Mulayam Singh Yadav on Saturday said he regretted ordering the police to fire at kar sevaks in Ayodhya , in 1991 , and added it was a decision he was forced to take in the larger interest of the nation 's " unity " and to ensure that the Muslim minority did not lose faith in India 's secular fabric .  Addressing a function to release a book on his political journey , Mulayam said , " I regret giving orders to shoot Kar Sevaks at Ayodhya in 1991 . My decision to order . This decision was needed to keep intact the faith of Muslims , the minorities in this country . However , it is also true that Samajwadi Party base had expanded after that incident , " said Mulayam Singh Yadav .  Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when groups of kar sevaks had brought down the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya , in December 1992 . Mulayam had , in a run up to the demolition of the mosque , directed the police to open fire at the rioting masses in 1991 .  The SP chief had allied with Kalyan Singh 's Rashtriya Kranti Party ahead of the 2009 Lok Sabha elections , but the partnership fell apart after Kalyan Singh returned to the BJP before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in UP . Kalyan Singh had also supported MSY when Mayawati 's government was ousted in 2003 and the SP government was sworn in , in 2004 , instead . Kalyan Singh 's son Rajveer Singh and close aide Kusum Rai had then also served as ministers .  This admission by Mulayam 's on Saturday during a public event in Lucknow last year that he was doing " prayaschit " ( penance ) for his mistakes in Ayodhya .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .