Lack of awareness about role of diatoms in investigations, says ...
http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/pune/lack-of-awareness-about-role-of-diatoms-in-investigations-says-forensic-pathologist-dr-td-dogra-3002948/

there is sheer lack of awareness of a simple diatom test that can be of great help in forensic investigations , especially in cases of death due to drowning , said forensic pathologist dr td dogra , while inaugurating a national workshop on the role of diatoms in forensics at macs agharkar research institute on monday .  diatoms are aquatic plants which play an important role in investigations , especially in cases of drowning . they help in locating the place of drowning , said dogra , former director of aiims , new delhi , citing instances where a simple diatom test had proved effective and the forensic team could establish in court that certain murder cases were actually deaths due to drowning .  dogra gave the instance of the ' rape and murder ' case of neelofar jan and her 17-year-old sister-in-law in shopian . " we used the diatom test that attributed the death to accidental drowning , " he said .  diatoms found inside the body of a drowned victim may serve as corroborative evidence in diagnosing the cause of death on diatoms at ari , said . diatoms are diverse microscopic algae with silica cell walls that are found in almost every aquatic environment including fresh and marine waters .  if the person is still alive when entering the water , diatoms will enter the lungs if the person inhales water and drowns . the diatoms are then carried to distant parts of the body such as brain , kidneys and bone marrow by circulation . if the person is dead when entering the water , then there is no circulation and the diatoms can not enter the body .  diatoms do not occur naturally in the body . if laboratory tests show diatoms in the corpse that are of the same species found in the water where the body was recovered , then it may be good evidence of drowning as the cause of death , the scientist explained .  earlier dr k m paknikar , director of ari , said the institute is creating a database of diatoms in maharashtra for preserving biodiversity .  while dogra urged more awareness about the role of diatoms , scholars and students in the field of forensic science on their role in crime investigations and overcoming shortcomings associated with diatom analysis .