SPL CELL ARRESTS GUNRUNNER, SEIZES .32 BORE PISTOLS
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/citizen-reporter/stories/SPL-CELL-ARRESTS-GUNRUNNER-SEIZES-32-BORE-PISTOLS/crshow/53902430.cms

SPL CELL ARRESTS GUNRUNNER , SEIZES .32 BORE PISTOLS  New Delhi : The .32 bore gun seems to have become the weapon of choice for Delhi 's gangsters these days .  The Special Cell of Delhi Police busted a consignment of 20 such semi-automatic pistols and arrested a Firozabad-based gunrunner a week after a policeman was brutally beaten and gunned down by criminals armed with .32 bore pistols .  Sources said that targets have a higher chance of surviving when shot with a weapon of this calibre than 9mm and others like .22 bore .  This gives the criminals a lesser chance of being booked in a case of murder . Cops said that this calibre is preferred by robbers and street criminals who do n't intend to kill .  The gunrunner , Ajay Bhardwaj , got a licence to run a liquor shop at the age of 26 in Firozabad , but he took to his " family business " of supplying arms after getting shot at six times by his rivals , said DCP ( special cell ) Pramod Kushwaha . He is married with two children .  " Ajay 's brother , Prashant , runs an arms syndicate in UP and procures weapons from Madhya Pradesh-based modules . The suspect delivered 5-6 consignments in the last few months to Delhi 's gangsters . Ajay got Rs 1,000 for each weapon delivered , " Kushwaha added .  On August 26 , inspectors Manoj Dixit and Shiv Kumar got a tip-off that Ajay Bhardwaj would be coming to a gurdwara in Vinod Nagar of east Delhi to deliver a huge cache of weapons to his contact .  " A team led by ACP Satyavir Singh caught the suspect with the pistols . His interrogation revealed that he has been working for his brother Prashant , who gets these illegal arms from Dhar ( MP ) . This consignment was to be supplied to a distributor in Pandav Nagar . We are looking for him , " the DCP added .  Want to become a Citizen Reporter and have your report published here ? Download the TOI Citizen Reporter app here .  From around the web  More  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .