Tribal remnants in Meiteis/Meeteis
http://www.thesangaiexpress.com/tribal-remnants-meiteismeeteis/

tribal remnants in meiteis/meeteis  i am neither an ethnographer nor a sociologist but certainly a student of history specialized in ancient history . we have studied the tribal ways of life in ancient period particularly of this sub-continent . some of the prominent features of tribal ways of living are -- nature-worship , ancestor-worship , dead burial , hunting-gathering , fishing , group dinning and wine(ing) , **26;352;toolong , egalitaria- nism , ethnic drinks , peculiar diets , dances and attires etc . after a certain stage of development and advancement the tribal features do disappear slowly and steadily in almost all the societies . in some places the pace of development is so rapid and so massive that the old traditional ways of living completely wither away . it will be extremely difficult to trace the ancient tribal tradition and practices in the cosmopolitan and metropolitan cities . however in the villages and under-developed areas we can still find ancient traditions and practices even today . in remote places or in the hills where the light and sound or the meal and material of modern still in vogue . for instance , some of the ethnic people of the andaman and nicobar islands are still continuing with their traditional style of living . likewise in far flung areas in chhotanagpur or arunachal pradesh many ethnic groups are still living with their tribal traits and culture . the meiteis/ meeteis are the largest ethnic group in manipur . their way of living is very similar if not identical with other ethnic groups in the state . if we segregate the hindu way of life from the meiteis , their culture is as good as other ethnic tribal groups ; the way they dine , drink and dance are not different from other indigenous groups in the state . before the arrival of hinduism in the state there was hardly any distinction between the hill people and valley people or in other words amongst the indigenous people . they mixed up without any hindrances and hesitation . there were innumerable matrimonial alliances amongst all the ethnic groups and communities in the state . it is not my imagination ; these are part of our recorded history . as meiteis and other ethnic communities . the implantation of the practice of holy and unholiness , concept of pure and polluted and the idea of verna system made our world up-side-down . gradually the other ethnic groups started distancing themselves from the meiteis . the gap between the meiteis and other ethnic groups was further widened when they started accepting christianity in the 19th and 20th century . sometimes i feel that religions have destroyed our brotherhood/sisterhood and fraternity . otherwise we could have continued to gather as an egalitarian society like the shinto society in japan and tao society in china . distinctive culture : meiteis have continued with some of their old tradition and practices despite hinduisation and sanskritization . they continue with lai haraoba ( invoking and worshipping of local gods and goddesses ) in almost all the localities . it is also a fact that during lai haraoba all forms of ethnic dances ( wearing traditional costumes ) are performed before the deity . even today meiteis are also worshipping their forefathers and ancestors in the form of chaklon katpa and apokpa khoirumba . in every meitei progenitor god ) . a strong tradition of ancestral worship is present in every tribal society . in addition our sagolkangjei ( polo ) , mukna ( wrestling ) , jagoi ( dances ) , huyen-lalong ( martial- arts ) etc. are part of our inherent distinctive culture . primitive way of life : some of the primitive habits still linger on among the meiteis . for instance the habit of eating snails , eels , insects ( nousek , koujeng , watin etc ) are still continuing with many of them . again ' yu ' ( local rice brew ) which is as old as their culture , is still a popular drink among the meiteis . as other tribal groups do , meiteis are very fond of fermented bamboo- soot , beans , fry ( fish ) etc . in terms of attire , meitei women have been wearing phanek since time immemorial and at the same time meitei men are wearing khudei and ningri ( without underwear ) . these traditional attires are more or less the same for all the ethnic groups of manipur ; there design and texture ; otherwise the traditional dresses of all the ethnic people of manipur are similar . shyness of contact : another significant tribal feature of the meiteis is their shyness to interact and mixing-up with the outsiders . the present ilps movement is perhaps an apt example of their shyness and xenophobia . general backwardness : meiteis are lagging far behind in education , employment , health-care , **26;380;toolong , science and technology , trade and commerce , industrial development etc. as compared to other advanced communities of the developed areas . geographical isolation : meiteis are living in geographical isolation ; they are the inhabitants of the valley of manipur , which is surrounded by ranges of hills and mountains and it is completely land locked . the means of transport and communication with the outside world is through the erratic and unsafe national highways and airlines . quite often they are cut off from the outside world as a result of frequent blockades and bandhs affecting the national highways and even the airport . instead of futile squabbles and arguments among ourselves to decide whether we are once and for all . i believe our legislators are listening. -