ED attaches Vijay Mallya's properties worth Rs 6630 crore
http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-ed-attaches-vijay-mallya-s-properties-worth-rs-6630-crore-2251637

ED attaches Vijay Mallya 's properties worth Rs 6,630 crore  The agency had recently expanded the probe in this regard as it took over investigation into the alleged loan default of Rs 6,027 crore availed from a consortium of nationalised banks led by SBI , a case also taken over by CBI recently .  The Enforcement Directorate ( ED ) , in probably one of its biggest action against businessman Vijay Mallya on Saturday , attached his properties and shares worth Rs 6,630 crore . As per the sources , the valuation of properties done by ED is on basis of 2010 rates , though current value of the attached property is Rs 6,630 crore . According to ED officials , the total attachment of Mallya properties , made by the agency in this case , has now shot up to Rs 8,041 crore .  The agency had recently expanded the probe in this regard as it took over investigation into the alleged loan default of Rs 6,027 crore availed from a consortium of nationalised banks led by SBI , a case also taken by SBI , an FIR was registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) against Kingfisher Airlines Ltd ( KAL ) , Vijay Mallya , United Breweries Holding Ltd ( UBHL ) and others .  As per the FIR , Mallya and UBHL have executed personal guarantee and corporate guarantee at the time of obtaining loans from the banks in addition to the collateral securities of KFA Brand and assets of KAL . On their request their loans were recasted in December 2010 and total outstanding were finalised/settled as Rs.5,575.72 crore subject to regular debt serving and adherence to agreed repayment schedules . However , they allegedly failed to pay as per recast agreement and even did not honour the guarantees executed by them . Instead , they filed court case against banks that the said guarantees were taken from them under coercion/by force .  Earlier , the ED registered a money laundering case against Mallya and KAL and its CFO in January 2016 in matter of IDBI loan of Rs 750 crore . " Our investigation revealed that huge funds ( more than Rs 3,500 crore of payments of lease rentals/ repair &amp; maintenance etc , " said an ED official .  He added that investigation further revealed that Mallya created a complex web of shell or investment companies in name of his family members/employees with dummy directors . " These companies though do not have any business activities and no independent source of income but holding substantial movable and immovable properties . It also revealed that Mallya , while submitting statement of his personal assets to the consortium has not disclosed in full his properties in India and overseas as well as his interests in these companies being controlled directly or indirectly by him , " the official said .  " There were substantial movable properties in the form of shares of various public limited companies held in the name of Vijay Mallya and UBHL ... In addition , huge number of shares were also being held in the name of various other group companies controlled directly or indirectly by Mallya . Hence , it appears that even though sufficient funds were available with the promoters of KAL viz Mallya and UBHL , they from the consortium banks . They deliberately and intentionally kept the huge number of shares , approximately worth Rs.3600 crore , pledged with UTI Investment Advisory Services Ltd and other financial institutions without substantial underlying liabilities and thus kept the consortium in dark . Mallya criminally conspired with KAL &amp; UBHL to obtain funds through consortium of banks and out of which principal amount of Rs 4,930.34 crore still remains unpaid , " said the official .  During investigation , ED had identified huge immovable and movable properties ( in form of shares of listed companies , fixed deposits ) of Mallya and UBHL and other entities being controlled by him . " The funds so obtained by KAL are nothing but the proceeds generated out of criminal activity related to the scheduled offence under PMLA ... and are Proceeds of Crime ( POC ) and the same are involved in money laundering , " said the agency official .  Of the said total POC , an amount of Rs 695.50 crore was the share of loan of IDBI Bank Ltd. , which is being investigated separately and properties attached by the ED in June . The Rs 4,234.84 crore properties attached on Saturday include Mandwa Farm House , Alibaugh ( Rs 25 crore ) , flats in Kingfisher Tower , Bengaluru ( Rs 565 crore ) , fixed deposits with HDFC ( Rs 10 crore ) , shares of USL , UBL and Macdowell Holding Co . ( Rs 3,635 crore ) .  Last week , the consortium of banks told the Supreme Court that Mallya had deliberately not made a full disclosure of his assets , including the $40 million he received in February from a British firm .