India in a chakra
http://www.dnaindia.com/lifestyle/report-india-in-a-chakra-2251612

India in a chakra  The first London Design Biennale has an installation by the India Design Forum ( IDF ) that links India 's traditional idea of utopia with modern design concepts , finds Ornella D'Souza  After design biennales in Istanbul and Boston , it 's time for the London Design Biennale to make its debut . The 20-day affair from September 7-27 , at Somerset House -- a neoclassical edifice hosting art and design shows on the banks of the Thames -- will see participation from 37 countries , including India , that will unveil an installation called Chakraview .  The biennale will explore the concept of ' Utopia by Design ' , in accordance with the 500th anniversary of Utopia , Thomas More 's critically-acclaimed book that envisages an ideal nation . Installations , artworks and talks will counter pollution , migration and social equality -- stubborn issues of the 21st century .  Among the participants are UK 's Victoria &amp; Albert ( V&amp;A ) museum , the Smithsonian Design Museum ( USA ) and South Africa 's Southern Guild . IDF ) .  Chakraview goes back in time , to the Charles &amp; Ray Eames 's The Report for India , 1958 , that was rooted in the chakra . It looked at the chakra as a symbol for a utopian India that Mahatma Gandhi believed possible if traditional crafts were revived , agrarian innovation was advanced and villages were developed . This report was the reason the National Institute of Design ( NID ) was born as it assured the government that design could better the lifestyle of a newly-independent India .  The 800sqft installation features mainly Jamdani and Ikat silks from Aadyam , the weaver 's initiative of the Aditya Birla Group . The walk-through installation appears like a room with parallel nine-feet walls . A metaphor for the colourful cacophony that is India , it features thousands of embroidery hoops bearing prints of hand-painted signages from streets , trucks and shops all over the country by artists Hanif and Rutva Kureshi . The space will echo with a narration voicing Mahatma Gandhi and Pupul Jayakar 's vision for textile and design in India , along with metallic floor , courtesy Jindal Steel , reflects three-dimensional chakras overhead , and seven chakras housed in a small room , garbhagriha , again with an audio tracing evolution of design in India , from matkas ( pots ) and thalis ( plates ) to the Crafts Council of India ( CCI ) .  " We 've all grown up with the stories showing triumph of good over evil , many gods and goddesses ... Here , even if you commission a new power plant you invoke the gods ! We ( Indians ) strive for perfection through our spiritual processes for industrial progress . And that 's what we are trying to achieve , " says IDF founder and Padma Shri awardee Rajshree Pathy .  Is the kitschy overview of chakras , hand-woven fabrics and indigenous typography a stereotypical view of India ? Chakraview 's curator , scenographer Sumant Jayakrishnan , dismisses this notion . " It 's a very modernist representation . Chakraview does n't look old-fashioned or fuddy-duddy at all . We 've used chakra as the catchword because it 's yogic and meditative and everyone ways , " he says .  The installation will unveil in India at the Serendipity Art Festival in Goa this December .