Living in the Shadow of Guns
http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/opinion/living-in-the-shadow-of-guns/227622.html

living in the shadow of guns  back in 2013 , a lifelong wish of one of my friends came true . he finally landed in srinagar at a time when the gun barrels were eerily silent and the valley was passing through a period of fleeting peace . my friend spent his sojourn nestled in the comfortable refuge of the snow-capped mountains of himalayas , overlooking the untroubled waters of a vast lake , fringed with lotus flowers and terraced mughal-era gardens . however , before he bid adieu he stumbled on a familiar platitude , " at least , kashmiris should be thankful to india for the development palpable at the ground level . i did n't feel any security threat here but attained peace of mind " . he further continued , " look at my country , you will find only dilapidated buildings left after bomb blasts , the rubble yet untouched , ruins of the magnificent buildings of yore and what not " . ever since i befriended him , i used to narrate him our version of paradise full of misery generation in kashmir , i too was born in the shadow of the guns . the saga of events under which i was brought up left a deep impression on the way i think , i behave , i conduct myself and on everything about my life . one incident which left the greatest mark on my psyche was the sopore massacre .  it was the cold chilly morning of january 6 , 1993 . that morning the air of sopore seemed restless . we had travelled to sopore , 50 km away from my hometown to visit a doctor to get my grandmother examined . on our way to see the doctor we heard some gunshots . they were not uncommon in kashmir at that time . as we started to dodge amidst the erratic trajectories of the bullets , we found ourselves trapped in this fury and swiftly we tried to run for safety . suddenly , the bsf regiment started appearing towards us raining bullets from all sides . we leaned on the earth as bullets went past us . the verses of the holy book we us was thinking that death was only a moment away . my mother in desperation had come out of her parent 's home looking for us among the dead bodies in the graveyard . by some miracle , we all survived with minor injuries . she went into state of shock and never recovered from it completely . we later learnt that 55 civilians were allegedly killed by the bsf and 450 shops were burnt down to ashes after militants ambushed the bsf patrol . this is just my story . every person in kashmir can effectively relate to this incident . some live to tell their stories while others die before they can narrate it .  every house in my homeland is a portrait of loss and gloom . the mother of my next door neighbour used to eulogise her own strength in form of her bravest , eldest son . he was tall , handsome and dynamic personality of our locality . when he walked , all eyes used to be on him . in the din of morning in 90s , we heard a loud cry emanating son had been killed in an encounter . when his body was brought back home , his mother lost her consciousness the moment she stared at the corpse of her fallen son . i was a kid back then , but the unfathomable tragedy of a mother got etched in my memory and even after so many years i can still feel pain every time i try to recollect the broken fragments of that moment .  when she recovered after some time , she smeared his blood over her whole body to preserve the last memory . ladies showed flowers over him while mother kept singing songs of his bravery . his old father carried his coffin to the graveyard for his final farewell . later his other son was interrogated to get the information of his eldest brother . he never got married . she now fights this arduous battle every day from last 20 years like other mothers who have faced similar misfortune .  the pashtun tribe my friend belongs to has produced girls like malala yousafzai , the youngest noble laureate for standing up for girls of constant fear . during the militancy years in 90s , we were instructed to turn lights off after break of dusk ( locally called night out ) . after the laborious day at school , many would spend around two hours of night to study with candle in one hand and books in the other hand . when going for school we constantly feared bomb blasts that could explode anytime . now our education institutes are being converted into army camps . our children have n't seen a glimpse of school for nearly two months due to curfew . the year of 2016 will be remembered in history books as the ' year of blinded eyes ' . while the world silently watches , the paradise is being turned into ' country of blind ' . how could anyone expect such blinded and traumatised children to hold books and computers in their hands ?  the date of my marriage was fixed a year ago . two months ago , i got married on the strictest day of curfew . on this joyous event of my life , a pall setup outside as a barricade to thwart any civilian movement . from our college days the same friend had planned along with his wife to come from afghanistan for my marriage . how could he have come when my close relatives two kilometers away from my home could n't see me leaving for the baraat ?  more than the ruins of kabul , he feels sadder about prevalent grief of paradise on earth ! he finally concluded that " kashmir is as volatile as soap bubble and when external force acts the bubble bursts and its cosmetic peace dies . kashmir is no longer a paradise now . " he understood only one dimension of kashmir after visiting during the peaceful days , like most of the tourists do , thinking " all is well with kashmir " .  we profess democracy but rule by force in kashmir-unless we have auto-suggested ourselves into believing that the two general elections under bakshi sahib had expressed the will of the people or that sadiq government is based on popular support , except for a minority of pro-pakistan traitors .