Climate of Hostility
http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/editorial/story/227616.html

climate of hostility  it is a known fact of international politics that political contestations and divergent economic interests have morphed into military conflicts , if the general atmosphere of inter state interaction is based on hostility . in our world that is still largely based on inter-state interactions , and the final agency is a sovereign-territorial state , it is the responsibility of state leaders , and of the institutions of a state , that the inter-state interaction is guarded from any hostile atmosphere . it was for this purpose that transnational institutions were framed to make the interstate interaction qualitatively different . if earlier it was solely guided by the considerations of self-help , and a response to the anarchic nature of international politics , now the element of complex interdependence became a game changer . it was this change that brought peace to regions we know as developed zones of the world . but unfortunately our part of the world could not be a part of that changed atmosphere . for decades south asia , with india and pakistan its major states , remained like kashmir also bore its brunt . after the cold war was over and the global politics dictated by bipolarity changed for good , the region could have laid the path for a peaceful cooperation . but it did not happen , and the reason for this is again the indo-pak hostility . and now we are again seeing the region sliding into a worst kind of international power contest . the rise of china as an economic power , and an alliance of russia and china on many international matters , like syria , has resulted into a strenuous us-china competition , that can anytime slip into any form of active hostility . unfortunately india and pakistan are taking opposite routes in this contestation . once again the reason that the two countries fit each other in an enemy frame is kashmir . what does it mean to the people of this region except a looming threat of violence . in this scenario the two countries , india and pakistan , must talk out the difference and make a forward movement on kashmir possible . this time when an all the question of kashmir is looked through the prism of responsible sovereignly and not a jingoistic nationalism .