Bar appeals international community to take note of happenings in ...
http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/kashmir/story/227642.html

bar appeals international community to take note of happenings in kashmir  condemning the killing of 20-year-old basit ahmad ahangar of vesu , qazigund , jk high court bar association , srinagar on sunday appealed international community to take note of happenings in kashmir and ask government of india to respect the human rights of kashmiri people .  in a written statement issued by the bar association here today , it said : " international community must prevail over indian authorities asking them to stop killings through ruthless use of force and ask the government of india to respect the human rights of the people of kashmir and allow them to exercise the right of self-determination to choose about their future , as has been promised to them by the indian leaders as also by the united nations security council resolutions . "  the bar association also opposed the clearance given by the goi for use of pelargonic acid vanillyl amide ( pava ) shells for controlling the crowd in kashmir .  the bar association said that the pava shells , a chili based as it ( pava ) immobilizes the target temporarily , which can cause instantaneous death of the victim and will affect the other people also adversely , who have breathing and other problems , " the association said .  " association terms the first consignment of 1000 pava shells as a special present brought by 35 member indian parliamentary delegation , with them from delhi to facilitate the further genocide of the people of kashmir , by indian armed forces . these parliamentary members through their speeches had asked india to stop the use of pellets in kashmir , but overruling the seven member expert committee recommendations , the indian govt. in consultation with their security force agencies have decided to use both pellets and pava shells for killing the people in kashmir . "  bar association has boycotted the indian parliamentary delegation , which is presently on kashmir visit .  while condemning the killing of basit , the bar statement said , " he suffered multiple pellet injuries in his legs and a head wound , after the forces first hit his legs with pellets and thereafter of the river , resulting in head injuries to him . "  the bar also asked the human rights organizations of the world to take note of firing of pellets by forces on four-year-old barena in her left eye and her 8 year old brother zaffar on his chest and abdomen .  authorities made heavy security deployment in srinagar and other places of the kashmir valley monday to maintain law and order as shutdown called by the separatists continued on the 58th consecutive day .