Kashmir: Valley of the Fallen
http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/opinion/story/227620.html

there is universal condemnation of violence in kashmir from both sides of the contetation now raging for 52 days with 70 killed , over 3000 injured with crippling disabilities including blindness. 2500 mostly children have been arrested . we hear plenty rhetoric from friends of kashmir dissuading people from confrontation with forces . what stands out as dominant feature is one sided overtures aimed at civilians to stop violence and keep children from getting hurt but not directed at forces to stop firing bullet and pellets at civilians who are within their right to be out in their own space . there are indian conscientious politicians that make exception , who raise voice against the actions of forces causing deaths , blindness and crippling injuries and demanding an end to their wanton practices . the prominent celebrity who empathized with people of kashmir and are coming to kashmir may save some lives are dr. karan singh the past heir apparent yuraj of kashmir , ex home minister p. chidambaram , senior politicians like sita ram yechury , and mayawati ( bsp ) who openly challenged bjp that paswan ( ljp ) will also visit the war landscape . sri goverdhan p shankaracharya has pronounced from his ashram in mathura that people of kashmir should have a plebiscite for a permanent solution under supervision of un representative and guarded by forces of the un ( tribune aug , 30 , 2016 ) . the supreme court lawyer ashok arora goes on to say that ' be it arrest of sheikh abdullah in 1953 , the rigging of election , unmarked graves or gunning down of innocent youth , the system every time rubbed salt over the fresh wounds . should the state be vindictive in punishment we must answer to our conscience .  the home minister mr rajnath singh is making one more visit on sep.4 saying in advance that pellet guns will not be withdrawn . in the meantime indian forces have openly demonstrated innovative guns that will blast red chilies in powder form at demonstrators , more effective than pellet guns and not as crippling . that is as far as india has relented so far .  the ' valley of the fallen ' status but over a hundred thousand people of kashmir have been martyred over the last three decades . kashmir has turned from paradise on earth to river of blood , and the valley is in the domain of  the fallen . one day there will be a memorial built and all names engraved for the posterity .  taking a stick to a citizen is illegal , gouging their eyes with pellet guns is a crime , and cluster killing is genocide because that is eliminating systematically a nation of people . there are chilling reminders of massacres , custodial killings , enforced disappearances , heinous crimes against humanity and now in 2010 started a war against children who are maimed , killed , blinded , kept in prisons , and a vast proportion left suffering illnesses like ptds ( post traumatic distress syndrome ) india was a strong proponent of the convention on the rights of the child ( crc ) adopted on 20 nov. 1989 . it became an unassailable commitment for the state to protect the lives of all children below the age of 18 years article 6 to touch a pupil in anger . in indian penal code that would be assault or battery . how can this indo-kashmir aberration in relations be explained except deviation from basics .  human rights are the soul of existence and civil liberties put flesh on the bones that shape a living human form . there is a strong international dimension to human rights so that even if a country defies norms of behavior as chartered under these conventions , the world will not accept their ignorance as excuse to perpetrate abuse on their subjects . there is a corpus of human rights law that covers the charter ( 1945 ) , iccpr &amp; icescr ( 1966 ) , protocol -1 ( 1-14 ) geneva conventions , regional conventions like the african charter on human &amp; people 's rights ( 1981 ) , american convention on human rights ( 1969 ) , canadian charter of fundamental rights . europe stood very steadfast ever since the end of world war 11 that witnessed wreckage of human remains in millions . in a combined voice the convention on the protection of human rights clean rule over people . the eu prison rules in 1987 and social charter in 1961 were adopted . my emphasis is on the treatment meted out to the political prisoners of j&amp;k who are suffering in indian jails . united nations passed a resolution for the minimum standards on the treatment of prisoners in 1987 .  1947 kashmir was a spa , archetypal heaven on earth . patients from all over were recuperated in the natural clean environment . there is an anthology of systematic degradation . it has been devastated into a chaotic country as an unplanned by-product of free for all inept governance . this valley of the fallen will need to be restored to its inherent pristine glory .  moral of the story is that when we avoid problems they sit in the middle of our lives like a big rock in the middle of the farmer 's field . the only way to make our problems go away is to attack them head on .