Para sports activist demands TV broadcast of Rio Paralympics
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/Para-sports-activist-demands-TV-broadcast-of-Rio-Paralympics/articleshow/54057536.cms

Para sports activist demands TV broadcast of Rio Paralympics  Para Sports Foundation general secretary and former international athlete Pradeep Raj has demanded that the 2016 Paralympics , which start in Rio de Janeiro from Wednesday , be broadcast over television .  IANS Sep 7 , 2016 , 07.11 PM IST  NEW DELHI : Para Sports Foundation general secretary and former international athlete Pradeep Raj has demanded that the 2016 Paralympics , which start in Rio de Janeiro from Wednesday , be broadcast over television .  Addressing a press conference to demand television broadcast of Rio Paralympics , Raj launched a scathing attack on officials travelling to the Paralympics , saying most of them either spend their time shopping or vacationing during such sporting events .  " Most officials , who could n't go for the Rio Olympics have been sent this time to Rio . These are powerful people and they force the athletes to take them as coaches , " Raj said .  " These officials obviously know nothing about sports or Para sports . They go there on taxpayers these officials do n't even visit the stadium , leave aside helping the athletes in their performance , " he added .  Demanding telecast of the Paralympics in India , Raj said that despite repeated requests , there has been no reply from the authorities .  " This is huge discrimination on the part of the government for the para athletes . We are also citizens of the same country and when there was no problem in telecasting the Rio Olympics , where is the hurdle now ? " he asked .  He also warned that they will be forced to take recourse of legal options if their demand is not met .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  ViewcommentsPost a comment  Comments+  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Most Popular  RCB crashed to their fifth defeat , falling prey to the big-hitting duo of Yusuf Pathan ( 60* ) and Andre Russell ( 39 ) , who helped KKR chase down a target of 186 with five balls to spare and five wickets in hand in Match 30 of the 2016 Indian Premier League .