Two India-Born MIT Scientists Win Prestigious US Awards
http://www.ndtv.com/indians-abroad/two-india-born-mit-scientists-win-prestigious-us-awards-1458779

Raskar , 46 , is the co-inventor of radical imaging solutions including femto-photography -- an ultra-fast imaging system that can see around corners -- low-cost eye-care solutions for the developing world , and a camera that allows users to read pages of a book without opening the cover .  " We are thrilled to honour Ramesh Raskar , whose breakthrough research is impacting how we see the world , " said Dorothy Lemelson , chair of the Lemelson Foundation , in a statement .  The technology , currently in development for commercialisation , uses ultrafast imaging to capture light at 1 trillion frames per second , allowing the camera to create slow motion videos of light in motion .  " Ramesh 's femto-photography work not only has the potential to transform industries ranging from internal medicine to transportation safety , it is also helping to inspire a new generation of inventors to tackle the biggest problems of our time , " Lemelson added .  " Everyone has the power to solve problems and through peer-to-peer co-invention and purposeful collaboration , we can solve Raskar , who is also Associate Professor at MIT .  He plans to use a portion of the Lemelson-MIT Prize money to launch a new effort using peer-to-peer invention platforms that offer new approaches for helping young people in multiple countries to co-invent in a collaborative way , the statement read .  Bharadia , 28 , a doctorate from Stanford University and an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology ( IIT ) at Kanpur , Uttar Pradesh , has been awarded for his contribution to radio waves .  " Bharadia has been chosen for the 2016 Paul Baran Young Scholar Award for his contribution to send and receive radio ( wireless ) signals , including mobile telephony and data on the same channel ( wave ) , " the Marconi Society said in a statement .  " Bharadia 's research disproved a long-held assumption that it is not possible for a radio to receive and transmit on the same frequency band because of the resulting interference , " the statement said .  The Marconi young scholar award includes $4,000 ( Rs. 2,67,870 ) prize and will receive the award at a ceremony in Mountain View , California , on November 2 .  Bharadia 's technology can be used in India to build relays which can listen to signals from a cellular tower , transmit them instantly and extend the range across the country .