SC allows Dera chief's plea to examine ex-CBI official
http://www.ptinews.com/news/7940106_SC-allows-Dera-chief-s-plea-to-examine-ex-CBI-official.html

New Delhi , Oct 4 ( PTI ) Supreme Court today allowed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh 's plea seeking summoning of a former CBI official , who had recorded statements of two alleged rape victims in a 14-year-old case , for his testimony as a court witness .  A bench of Justices Dipak Misra and U U Lalit directed that CBI 's investigating officer ( IO ) K L Raina , now retired , be summoned as a court witness and examined before the lower court where the trial in the rape case is pending .  " Let K L Raina be summoned and examined as court witness within four weeks from today , " the bench said .  It said both parties would appear before the lower court on October 6 to decide the date of hearing for recording of deposition of the former CBI official , after which trial will proceed as per CrPC .  The sect figure-head said in his appeal that his right to fair and impartial trial was affected specially when he was denied to examine Raina , who was the earlier IO of the case and had recorded the statements of the two women .  The plea said CBI 's refusal in examining Raina as a witness before the trial court had resulted in violation of Singh 's fundamental rights .  " Non supply of  statements of  the victims ( prosecution witnesses 5 and 10 ) recorded  by K L Raina , IO CBI , and declining to examine K L Raina by the court below as well as by the impugned judgment ( of Punjab and Haryana High Court ) is violative of ( the provisions of ) CrPC and also against the fundamental rights of the petitioner ( Singh ) guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution , " it said , adding the high court judgment was " perverse , arbitrary and liable to be set aside . "  The apex court had earlier dismissed Singh 's plea seeking more handwriting samples of an alleged rape victim in the case , asking whether a woman was available just because she wrote " Babaji , I the language of the letter allegedly written by the victim did not reflect consent at any point .  The rape case is currently pending in a CBI special court at Panchkula . The woman who alleged rape by Singh was an inmate of Ashram of Dera Sacha Sauda at Sirsa in Haryana .  While the alleged incident occured in 1999 , the FIR was lodged in 2002 .  The plea of Dera Sacha Sauda chief seeking examination of Raina was declined by the High Court .