Medical treatment of TN CM continuing: Apollo hospital
http://www.dailypioneer.com/top-stories/medical-treatment-of-tn-cm-continuing-apollo-hospital.html

TOP STORIES  Medical treatment of TN CM continuing : Apollo hospital  Tuesday , 04 October 2016 PTI Chennai  0  Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa 's health condition " continues to improve " and the same line of treatment , including antibiotics and other clinical measures , is being continued , the Apollo hospital said today .  Chief Operating Officer of Apollo hospitals Subbiah Viswanathan said in a press release that " the same line of treatment is being continued . The honourable CM is under close observation by the team of doctors " .  The Chief Minister , who is undergoing treatment , " continues to improve , " he said , adding that she has been advised further stay in the hospital .  Yesterday , Viswanathan had said the treatment plan , including appropriate antibiotics , respiratory support and other allied clinical measures , was being continued to treat infection .  He had also said that she " is responding adequately to the comprehensive treatment " .  On October 2 , for the first time since said the Chief Minister was being treated for " infection " .  A bulletin from the hospital had said it had taken an expert opinion from a UK-based doctor who examined her and concurred with the present line of treatment .  The 68-year-old AIADMK supremo was admitted to the hospital after she complained of fever and dehydration .  02 Oct 2016 Ananya Borgohain  Ladakh is often so romanticised that most fail to see beyond its stunning beauty ; wherein lie daily economic struggle , environmental hardship , military domination , and isolation from varied markers of modernisation . ANANYA BORGOHAIN visits the region and explores the lives of its local people who are recreating an image of the place like never before Travelling around the hills is at times like walking aimlessly flanked by the poetry of Rumi and ...  05 Oct 2016 PNS Bhubaneswar  For the first time children officially participated in a gram sabha to discuss their issues , entitlements and rights on the occasion of ' special gram sabha ' organised on October 2 in Khandapada , a model child friendly constituency ' the special gram sabha was organised across the country to promote and ensure people 's participation in the development of their village ...