Sunanda death: Police want ED to probe irregularities in IPL
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kochi/Sunanda-death-Police-want-ED-to-probe-irregularities-in-IPL/articleshow/54680826.cms

sunanda death : police want ed to probe irregularities in ipl  kochi franchise new delhi , oct 4 ( ) delhi police has written to the ed to probe alleged financial irregularities related to now- defunct kochi ipl franchise as part of its ongoing investigation into sunanda pushkar 's death .  pti oct 4 , 2016 , 08.37 pm ist  kochi franchise  new delhi , oct 4 ( ) delhi police has written to the ed to probe alleged financial irregularities related to now- defunct kochi ipl franchise as part of its ongoing investigation into sunanda pushkar 's death .  delhi police 's economic offences wing was probing the matter after the task was given to them during the tenure of former police commissioner bs bassi .  the ipl controversy broke in 2010 with allegations that congress mp shashi tharoor , the then mos for home , " misused " his office to ensure that rs 70 crore , equivalent to 19 per cent equity in ipl kochi franchise rendezvous sports world , was paid to sunanda .  however , 2010 , sunanda gave up the equity .  rendezvous sports world was a member of the consortium that had won the kochi ipl franchise during the auction .  sunanda , who was not married to tharoor then , had refuted allegations of any wrongdoing .  she had also denied she was acting as the front person to tharoor in the kochi ipl franchise .  " i am rendering services for kochi franchise . ( i ) have advised them in getting ipl . i am also advising them on marketing and branding and hence i am getting sweat equity . it is only on paper now . i have not yet got it , " pushkar had said in a statement when the ipl controversy broke out .  the matter had also forced tharoor to resign .  the eow was probing whether sunanda was used as a " proxy " by tharoor or someone else in the ownership of the kochi tuskers and the murky ownership pattern of the team had something to do with her murder .  51-year-old sunanda was found dead at on the night of january 17 , 2014 , a day after her spat with pakistani journalist mehr tarar on twitter over the latter 's alleged affair with tharoor . slb tir  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  ( this story has not been edited by timesofindia.com and is auto -- generated from a syndicated feed we subscribe to . )  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil . tourism bazaar expo in delhi , after aap minister kapil mishra launched an attack on jammu and kashmir chief minister mehbooba mufti , saying tourism would not thrive in kashmir as long as terrorism existed there . mufti responded strongly , saying tourists who came to kashmir would do most to give confidence to kashmiris.