Kashmir unrest: Use of PAVA shell 'backfires', protestors outwit forces
http://www.asianage.com/india/kashmir-unrest-use-pava-shell-backfires-protestors-outwit-forces-892

The ' chilli-based ' PAVA shells were not able to ' fully deter ' protesting crowds , official sources said . ( Photo : PTI/Representati  The self-melting canisters were taking time to melt and as a result , the crowds were able to throw them back at the forces in quick time .  New Delhi : The Centre is mulling reconfiguration of ' PAVA shells ' , recently introduced in Kashmir for crowd control as an alternative to pellet guns , as these proved to be " less effective " due to a number of anomalies .  The security forces in Jammu and Kashmir , particularly the CRPF , have provided an on-ground assessment , saying the ' chilli-based ' PAVA shells were not able to " fully deter " the protesting crowds , official sources said .  The self-melting canisters of the shells were taking time to melt and as a result , the crowds were able to throw them back at the forces in quick time .  The effectiveness of the shells ' chilli fumes after exploding also needed to Security Force 's ( BSF ) Tear Smoke Unit ( TSU ) , based in Gwalior , has been asked to fix these anomalies and send a fresh lot after reconfiguring the shells .  An expert panel was constituted by the Union Home Ministry to find an alternative to pellet guns for crowd control following an uproar in Kashmir after its usage led to fatalities .  The panel had zeroed in on ' PAVA shells ' which were considered " less lethal " and were capable of " immobilising the target temporarily " .  ' PAVA ' stands for Pelargonic Acid Vanillylamide , also called Nonivamide , and is an organic compound found in natural chilli pepper .  On the Scoville scale ( to measure the power of chilli ) , PAVA is categorised as " above peak " , meaning it will " severely irritate and paralyse " humans , but the irritation and paralysis will remain " temporary " in nature . It is also used as a food additive to add pungency , flavouring and the spicy effect to eatables.