Parents move HC over land for Valpoi school
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Parents-move-HC-over-land-for-Valpoi-school/articleshow/54906518.cms

parents move hc over land for valpoi school  fearing for the safety of students studying at the fully-residential navodaya vidyalaya school at valpoi , sattari , around 300 parents have filed a writ petition in the high court , praying that it direct the government to identify alternative land in the vicinity of the existing school complex where a new school complex can be built . fearing for the safety of students studying at the fully-residential navodaya vidyalaya school at valpoi , sattari , around 300 parents have filed a writ petition in the high court , praying that it direct the government to identify alternative land in the vicinity of the existing school complex where a new school complex can be built  tnn oct 18 , 2016 , 03:00 ist  panaji : fearing for the safety of students studying at the fully-residential navodaya vidyalaya school at valpoi , sattari , around 300 parents have filed a writ petition in the high court , praying that it direct the government to identify alternative land in the vicinity of the existing school complex where a safety of students studying at the fully-residential navodaya vidyalaya school at valpoi , sattari , around 300 parents have filed a writ petition in the high court , praying that it direct the government to identify alternative land in the vicinity of the existing school complex where a new school complex can be built .  highlighting the poor condition of the school , which has 329 students and 41 teaching and non-teaching staff , the petition state , " there are leakages in roofing and in toilet blocks , the fittings and fixtures are corroded and broken , doors of toilets are missing , electricity wires are hanging everywhere , the switches and holders have become un-operational . due to dampness from the leakages , the walls have got wet and students get electric shocks when they accidently touch the walls . there is every possibility of our wards getting electrocuted during cloudburst and heavy downpour . the soak pits and the septic tanks too have become unoperational . "  the petitioners have prayed that the court direct the constitution of a high-powered committee to be chaired by the experts including the chief architect of the state government , chief engineer , health officer , a revenue officer , a psychologist , a fire officer as well as a concerned officer of the local body of the chief executive of navodaya vidyalaya samiti to identify an alternative suitable land in a radius of around eight kilometers from the existing complex to shift the school and submit a report to the court within two weeks .  the parents have also prayed that the court issue directions to the ministry of human resources development to initiate the process of reconstruction of the new school building complex within four weeks from the date of identification of allotment of land by the state government and complete it within two years .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  buy from gadgets now  most popular  he has slashed the state budget , frozen government contracts and reduced the pay of civil employees , all part of drastic austerity measures+ as the kingdom of saudi arabia is buffeted by low oil prices .  at least 22 people were killed in a major fire that broke out in sum hospital , a leading private healthcare institute in bhubaneswar , triggering panic among patients and attendants . several others suffered suffocation-related injuries , police sources said .