Caitu brushes aside Alemao's joining NCP
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Caitu-brushes-aside-Alemaos-joining-NCP/articleshow/54906455.cms

caitu brushes aside alemao 's joining ncp  reacting his b ? te noire churchill alemao 's entry in the ncp on monday , benaulim mla caitu silva said that the political development will not impact him in the least and reiterated that he will contest the 2017 assembly polls as an independent candidate from benaulim  tnn oct 18 , 2016 , 03:00 ist  margao : reacting his b ? te noire churchill alemao 's entry in the ncp on monday , benaulim mla caitu silva said that the political development will not impact him in the least and reiterated that he will contest the 2017 assembly polls as an independent candidate from benaulim .  about the several development works carried out in the benaulim constituency during his tenure , silva said , " i was able to get the developmental works in my constituency done only during the tenure of then chief minister manohar parrikar . there has hardly been any support from present chief minister laxmikant parsekar . "  silva said that benaulim hardly witnessed any development when alemao and goa were mlas and represented benaulim .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  buy from gadgets now  most popular  he has slashed the state budget , frozen government contracts and reduced the pay of civil employees , all part of drastic austerity measures+ as the kingdom of saudi arabia is buffeted by low oil prices .  at least 22 in sum hospital , a leading private healthcare institute in bhubaneswar , triggering panic among patients and attendants . several others suffered suffocation-related injuries , police sources said .