Thousands flock to Colva for fama
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/Thousands-flock-to-Colva-for-fama/articleshow/54906421.cms

Thousands flock to Colva for fama  The fama was celebrated on Monday with pomp and solemnity at the Our Lady of Mercy Church in Colva . Thousands of devotees flocked to the church to venerate ' Menino Jesu ' ( Infant Jesus )  TNN Oct 18 , 2016 , 03:00 IST  COLVA : The fama was celebrated on Monday with pomp and solemnity at the Our Lady of Mercy Church in Colva . Thousands of devotees flocked to the church to venerate ' Menino Jesu ' ( Infant Jesus ) .  High mass was celebrated at 5.30am by the parish priest along with six other priests . The statue of Menino Jesus was brought down from its casket , placed at the altar and carried around the church in a procession before being kept for veneration till late night .  People of all faiths strongly believe the statue or the ring on its fingers has miraculous powers and flock here to seek blessings for bearing children , for cures of various ailments and even to bless marriages .  People , including long queues , to venerate the statue with a ' umo ' ( kiss ) . Infants were specially brought for the fama so that they can be blessed .  Colva PI Braz Menezes said that Colva police , in tandem with the Margao traffic police , diverted the motorcades of dignitaries and delegates attending BRICS and BIMSTEC through the Khareband route and freed the Colva route for the festivity . A bomb disposal squad was present at the venue and the CCTV cameras were also installed .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Buy From Gadgets Now  Most Popular  He has slashed the state budget , frozen government contracts and reduced the pay of civil employees , all part of drastic austerity measures+ as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is buffeted by low oil prices .  At least 22 people were killed in a major fire that broke out in SUM hospital , a leading private healthcare institute in Bhubaneswar , triggering panic among patients and attendants . Several others suffered suffocation-related injuries , police sources said .