'Manva': A book that delves deep into mind
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/Manva-A-book-that-delves-deep-into-mind/articleshow/54905960.cms

' Manva ' : A book that delves deep into mind  TNN Updated : Oct 18 , 2016 , 09:15 IST  Nagpur : " Mann or mind is hard to define . It is intangible and also hard to understand , its no surprise that there is no synonym for it in English , " said Sana Pandit at the discussion about her book ' Manva ' . It is a collection of short poems related to author 's experiences and how she came to understand the origins of her emotions . Principal of Taywade College Dr Sharayu Taywade , Prof Ruta Dharmadhikari from LAD College and Prof Rajani Hudda from Old Morris College as well as students participated in the book reading session at Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh , Sitabuldi .  Ruta Dharmadhikari said , " The book is excellent and should be read by everyone since it touches upon a subject ( mind ) that is n't as well defined in other books as it is in ' Manva ' . Sana has managed to show the depth of the topic which is mind is very powerful yet quite fickle at the same time and this makes human nature unpredictable . " The is no logical explanation as to how we control our emotions but we accept people as they are , " explained Pandit . She also said that how two people in love change their behaviour just to please the other but in doing so change themselves as well .  Those present also shared their thoughts on the subject . Sakshi Nagmote from Binzani City College and Sharvari Pethkar from LAD College were found to have shared the best views on the topic .  ( Reporting by Mohnish Neralwar )  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  Buy From Gadgets Now  Most Popular  He has slashed the state budget , frozen government contracts and reduced the pay of civil employees , all part of drastic austerity measures+ as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is buffeted by low oil prices .