Tribunal confines re-allocation of Krishna water to Telangana, AP
http://www.thehansindia.com/posts/index/Telangana/2016-10-19/Tribunal-confines-re-allocation-of-Krishna-water-to-Telangana-AP/259810

tribunal confines re-allocation of krishna water to telangana , ap  ians oct 19,2016 , 04:22 pm ist  krishna water  krishna water  ? new delhi/hyderabad : in a setback to telangana and andhra pradesh , the krishna water disputes tribunal-ii on wednesday ruled that there was no need to re-allocate the river water among all four riparian states .  the much-awaited verdict has come as a relief to maharashtra and karnataka , which were opposing re-allocation among all states .  the tribunal said the water should be re-allocated between telangana and andhra pradesh , the two successor states of undivided andhra pradesh .  it asked the telugu states to submit their objections and arguments , if any , within four weeks . the tribunal adjourned the next hearing till december 14 .  telangana advocate general ramakrishna reddy said the tribunal order was not final and was subject to a review by the supreme court .  he told reporters that they had sought re-allocation of the river water among four states as per section 89 of the andhra pradesh reorganisation that the dispute was confined to only the telugu states .  both andhra pradesh and telangana had sought fresh allocation among all four riparian states .  on the other hand , maharashtra and karnakata had argued that andhra pradesh reorganisation act , 2014 was limited to successor states of andhra pradesh and telangana and maharashtra and karnataka were not parties to it .  they wanted the tribunal to re-allocate water to telugu states from the share of undivided andhra pradesh .  in 2013 , the tribunal had made allocation of water among maharashtra , karnataka and undivided andhra pradesh .  however , andhra pradesh had challenged the award on the ground that injustice was done to it . after the formation of telangana , the state also impleaded in the case .