Nathaniel Clyne on signs of Liverpool's defensive improvements ...
http://www.hitc.com/en-gb/2016/10/20/nathaniel-clyne-on-signs-of-liverpools-defensive-improvements-pa/

the reds kept their first clean sheet in the premier league this season as a result in a game when chances were few and far between , and it 's something that everyone associated with the club will hope continues .  clyne told the official liverpool website : " we 've settled really well at the back and we 're trying our best to keep up good performances like united , when we were more solid and did n't give them many chances . if you can get a clean sheet , it gives you a chance of winning the game . "  the right-back , who has been impressive since his arrival from southampton in the summer of 2015 , said that the new signings at the back in joel matip and ragnar klavan had settled in well , while everyone was contributing when they were called upon .  matip has been the player that has stood out from the defenders since his arrival , and seems to have impressed clyne too , who added : " he 's settled in like he . he 's built a good partnership and has done really well defensively .  " he 's confident on the ball , you see him driving forward from defence and helping to set up attacks . he 's good and i like playing with him .  " he is not fazed by anything . he is putting in good performances and long may they continue . "  liverpool 's joel matip in action  matip certainly seems to be impressing many people , and the partnership with dejan lovren looks potentially as solid a partnership as the reds have had at the heart of the defence for several years .  his presence at the back along with his calmness on the ball are both huge plus points that liverpool seem to be benefiting from .  set-pieces are still something of a problem for the defensive unit as a whole but their defending in open play does n't seem to have a lot wrong with it . they will be hoping to build on their recent clean sheet , and hope it 's the start of a bolland  a journalism graduate of liverpool john moores university . during his time at university , ian spent time on work experience at local newspapers in liverpool , bolton and wigan , and prior to that he did work for the observer 's ' fans verdict ' . ian also has interests in news , current affairs and business but mostly sport , including football , rugby league , cricket , golf and formula 1 , amongst others .