The business of being homecooks
http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/a-mobile-app-called-mschef-connects-homecooks-to-people-who-are-looking-to-order-healthy-and-homemade-food/article9245493.ece

Seven women have made it their business to empower other homemakers through an app called Ms.Chef that will see them putting their cooking skills to profitable use  " Tasya is a start up by seven women entrepreneurs in the city to empower women " , explains one of them , Devika Ramesh , who has a compressor business . These entrepreneurs have come together to help homemakers earn an income . They do this through a mobile app called Ms.Chef that connects homecooks to people who are looking to order healthy and home-made food .  " It is not easy to become a Ms. Chef . From over 60 entries , we narrowed it down to 20 after several rounds of interviews , food and kitchen audits by food consultants . Many women got rejected because of untidy kitchens , " explains Sashikala Sathiyamurthy , who runs an interior designing firm .  All the kitchens and chefs that come under Ms. Chef are approved by the quality standards set by FSSAI .  A clean kitchen is a prerequisite to become a Ms.Chef ,  The 20 chefs on the app make around five dishes each and update it on the app . The customers ' orders on the app directly reaches the chef 's kitchen . The Tasya team helps with home delivery .  Tasya curates and guides the chefs on the menu , taste , hygiene and food safety . The women whip up a variety from Hyderabadi chicken biriyani , and Kerala fish curry , to Italian and Mexican specialities . Shifa Arshad , a paediatric and preventive dentist says , " One of our chefs specialises in organic meals and the concept of food as medicine . Then there are those who make amazing snacks . Each chef decides on how many dishes she wants to make in a day . If she has time only to make a biriyani , she says so on the app . This helps the customers place orders accordingly , " explains Shifa .  With Deepavali around the corner , the app can be used to order traditional sweets , such as ellu urundai , saththu maavu urundai , and other sweets , older chefs making sweets the way our grandmothers did . As their children and grand children are settled abroad this gives them an opportunity to revisit traditions and they are happy with it , " says Shifa . Tara Prasath who also has an interior designing firm adds that there are plans to include healthy nutritious meals for school going children through Ms.Chef . " Working couples can place orders for lunch for their children and we will deliver , " she says .  Another member of Tasya , wedding planner Reshma Srijay says , " Our objective is to have a meaningful dialogue with homemakers . " We are lucky we have the support of our families in our business , but there are many out there who are not . We want to reach out to them . "  The financial independence makes the women confident and artist Madhu Kannan gives her own example . " I was a homemaker for 18 years . When I got an opportunity to get back to work , it was liberating . I earned the respect of my family members many other women . "  The recently launched app has crossed over 500 downloads and Devika says the plan is to take it pan India . " Any start up works when you have focus , and invest time and energy into it . We want to tell the home makers to empower themselves with this opportunity . We urge them to take charge and work independently . Men should involve women in financial decisions of the family . I never wanted to step out . My husband insisted I learn everything . Because of that , when I lost him three years ago , I was able to manage , " says Devika .  While Sashikala and Shifa recount how the journey exposed them to a variety of cuisines , Rachel Premnath , CEO of an IT company , says they ensure junk food is out . " We meet every Monday and brainstorm ideas . Late comers for the meeting attract a penalty , " she says . Tasya has seen a visible change in women they have reached out to .  They are forthcoming , to focus on its dream - of empowering one crore women by 2020 .  To know more about the Ms Chef app , call 99439-90959 , e-mail : tasyaindia@gmail.com or visit www.mschef.in You can download the app from Google playstore  1 . Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team . 2 . Comments that are abusive , personal , incendiary or irrelevant can not be published . 3 . Please write complete sentences . Do not type comments in all capital letters , or in all lower case letters , or using abbreviated text . ( example : u can not substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . We may remove hyperlinks within comments . 5 . Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name , to avoid rejection .  Get News Delivered To Your Email  Please enter a valid email address .  Kindly confirm the Newsletter subscription by clicking the link that your have received by email