Classmates rapes First-year student of Raisoni Engineering College ...
http://northbridgetimes.com/classmates-rapes-first-year-student-of-raisoni-engineering-college-arrested/10336

A first-year girl student of Raisoni Engineering College was allegedly raped by two students . Police has registered a case against two and arrested . One of them was nabbed for sending obscene messages to the victim .  The 18-year-old student alleged that two students of the college raped her on two consecutive days in the hostel Raisoni Engineering College . She told that third youth amongst them was out of the college , stalked and threatened her by sending obscene messages .  Her mate took her to his hostel room pretending to bring the project files  All three were nabbed by the Pune Police from the around the College itself on Friday , a day after the victim and her friends registered the FIR.According to the complaint , the victim , who studying the first-year , had just given her first exam of the first semester on October 18 and was walking towards her hostel when Karan Ghuge , a third-year student of the same college approached her .  He politely asked her if he could help the girl with her project asked her to come to his hostel room excusing that all the relevant files were in the room .  When they reached the room , Ghuge forced himself upon her and raped her . The girl was so frightened and disturbed that she did not even disclose the matter to her parents as she feared they would ask to leave the engineering . She chose to instead remain silent and gave her exam on the second day as well . A police investigation is still going on .  Two raped her in the same place  While she was going to give her exam , she noticed that the Ghurge , who had allegedly raped her , was keeping an eye on her . She got panicked and it was then that she received a message from her classmate , Mahesh Korde . Korde said that he knew what had happened to her and said he would help her in getting the accused arrested .  Korde was so kind that the victim believed him and met him in the college after the exam . Korde asked to show help in making the case stronger .  The girl took him to hostel room where she was allegedly raped ; he suddenly closed the door and started misbehaving with her . He also raped her in the same room on October 19 where she raped the day earlier .