Malkangiri Maoists: Top rebel RK missing since encounter
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/malkangiri-maoists-top-rebel-rk-missing-since-encounter-3727950/

the cpi ( maoist ) on friday claimed that maoist leader g ramakrishna alias rk was missing since the october 24 encounter in malkangiri , and that he could be in police custody . the outfit also vowed revenge for the encounter , in which 30 maoists were killed , and blamed the chief ministers of andhra pradesh and odisha for it .  in an audio tape released to the media , cpi ( maoist ) east division committee secretary kailash said , " top maoist cadre ramakrishna is missing and he could be in police custody . "  in the tape , kailash said that maoists had not become weak and would continue to fight . he warned that the sps of malkangiri and visakhapatnam rural would face dire consequences for the encounter in malkangiri 's cut-off area .  alleging that some maoist leaders , including rk , could be in police custody , kailash demanded that the arrested maoists be produced in court . he also alleged that the state government was undertaking " operation green hunt " in the area with of industrialists .  rk was last sighted at jantri in the cut-off area of malkangiri district on october 1 . he had addressed a public meeting and asked people to boycott the panchayat elections in odisha .  the allegation that rk was missing came even as security forces from andhra pradesh and odisha scoured the forests of the cut-off area in search of the maoist leader , and others including chalapathi , his wife aruna , and uday alias gajarla ravi . the four leaders were reportedly near the site of the encounter . police have sealed all routes and are keeping vigil in forests of the area .  meanwhile , a protest against the encounter was organised in guntur district of andhra pradesh on thursday . the protesters carried the body of maoist leader mamata alias budukonda maru , an area committee member , who was killed in the incident . the cpi on friday demanded a judicial inquiry into the encounter and condemned the " high-handed " killings . cpi general secretary s sudhakar reddy also condemned the threat issued to the andhra pradesh cm.