Cyrus Mistry's ouster: Proxy firms ask Tata group to make more ...
http://indianexpress.com/article/business/companies/cyrus-mistrys-ouster-proxy-firms-ask-tata-group-to-make-more-disclosures-3727956/

raising three issues , iias said , " the first is the legality of the process , the second the decision itself , and finally , what happens now that cyrus mistry has been ousted ? for investors , while the third is more fundamental , for the group the first two also matter . "  while tata sons is an unlisted company and therefore accountable to a limited set of stakeholders , its actions affect the entire tata group of companies , and in a sense the whole of corporate india , making it imperative for tata sons to disclose more than it has , proxy advisory firms said . in replacing cyrus mistry , the tata sons board has asserted its rights and exercised its privilege of appointing and sacking its ceo , but the board has failed to recognise their need to communicate . this absence of clear communication has prompted excessive speculation , they said .  " the tata group , given its stature and its century-old presence , is responsible and accountable to a much wider set of stakeholders . this and begins to proactively communicate , " institutional investor advisory services india limited ( iias ) has said . " the abruptness of developments at the tata group has left stakeholders bewildered . "  raising three issues , iias said , " the first is the legality of the process , the second the decision itself , and finally , what happens now that cyrus mistry has been ousted ? for investors , while the third is more fundamental , for the group the first two also matter . "  j n gupta , managing director of stakeholders empowerment services ( ses ) , said that governance issues raised by mistry if true , will not only impact the shareholders but will also hit the tata brand . he said mistry 's letter has raised important questions on the independence of the independent directors and their conduct on all the boards of tata firms . " sebi may have to examine the allegations of insider trading in his ( cyrus mistry 's ) letter . governance at present is lip service be it in india or the us compensation . and independence is a character that the law can not infuse . law can only infuse fear , " said gupta .  tata sons has stated that " the tenure of the former chairman was marked by repeated departures from the culture and ethos of the group . " but , it is not enough to say that there were departures . tata sons needs to explain what these transgressions were and what are their implications , especially for the listed companies , iias said .  how will the dual power structure work , going forward ? independent of whether the tata sons ' articles of association ( aoa ) " were modified , changing the rules of engagement between the trusts , the board of tata sons , the chairman , and the operating companies , " with ratan tata remaining chairperson of the tata trusts and cyrus mistry chairing tata sons , there was a dual power structure . such duality blurs the lines of accountability and creates confusion in the rank and file . going forward , the group needs to communicate how it of leading the trusts and tata sons ) .  the group must put in places well-articulated roles , responsibilities , and rights , for the structure to work seamlessly . the tata group must recognize its engagement rules have now changed in making an almost cursory statement that the chairperson of tata sons has been ' replaced ' , and a generic response to cyrus mistry 's email leak , the tata group is taking an extremely narrow and legal view of tata sons -- as an unlisted company -- with only a limited set of shareholders needing to know . but , developments including the leaked cyrus mistry letter , may have put events beyond their control . how the group flies through this turbulence , will determine the way the group is perceived and its terms of engagement with its stakeholders , iias said .  another issue raised by the proxy firms is performance metrics for the chairperson of tata sons . one of the reasons cited for cyrus mistry 's departure was non-performance . however , shareholders remain unclear on what were the performance metrics and . cyrus mistry 's attempts at reducing debt and getting rid of bleeding parts of the business appear to be rather obvious and practical decisions , given the debt overhang . this is reflected in the increased market capitalization . " if this strategic re-orientation is not acceptable to the tata trusts and tata sons , then the tata 's must clearly articulate the deliverables of the chairperson and the timelines within which the goals are to be achieved . this will not only help cyrus mistry 's successor , and prevent incidents of sudden departure in the future , but also provide guidance for investors in the listed tata group companies , " iias said .  will cyrus mistry continue as chairman of tata companies ?  the chairman of tata sons is the de facto chairman of the major listed tata group companies . the tata group needs to articulate if cyrus mistry will continue as chairperson of tata motors , tata steel , indian hotels , tcs and other tata companies , and if not , the market will have to be explained how these transitions will meet separately to initiate the process of removing mistry . this will be a time-consuming process . how will tata sons tackle this issue remains a question mark .