'Mangalmayi Pahat' infuses divinity into rhythm
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/Mangalmayi-Pahat-infuses-divinity-into-rhythm/articleshow/55122435.cms

' mangalmayi pahat ' infuses divinity into rhythm  tnn oct 29 , 2016 , 03.03 am ist  nagpur : melodious songs in reverence to chhatrapati shivaji maharaj , singing stalwarts kl sehgal , mohammed rafi , sant sai baba and other eminent personalities made shivaji nagar park a place of divine rhythm . over 500 persons had assembled at the park to be part of ' mangalmayi pahat ' organized to celebrate diwali .  singers aniruddha joshi , anandi joshi , rasika joshi and birthday boy amar kulkarni presented a blend of hindi and marathi songs . they set the tone for morning with the rendition of ' prabhati sur ' and went on to perform songs like ' guni baal asa ' , ' maze maker ' , ' ketakichya bani ' , ' khel mandiyela ' , ' akhiyan sang ' , ' dipawali manage , ' ' madhuban main ' and ' zunjumunju zale ' , among others .  " even though we are representatives of new generation , some things will never fade out -- the charm of old closeness with family . forms may change but the feelings remain , " said asavari galande , who anchored the show , weaving together small inspiring anecdotes between the songs . narrating an incident , she said , " when noted singer kl sehgal was supposed to present his first song with a sound system at lahore , there was a technical problem . as there was some commotion , a boy was made to sing . soon , there was pin-drop silence in the crowd and everyone was enjoying songs rendered by the little boy . this wonder boy is today known as mohammad rafi , " said galande , amid applause from the audience .  in an initiative to support skill india and make in india , professors of industrial training institute , in collaboration with bharatiya janata yuvak mandal , successfully produced over 2500 good-quality led light series . all the components required to produce the lights were sourched from local market and these were the first lights to come with a warranty of one year . " 70 unemployed youth were invited to help with the . the production started during ganpati time and was marketed after durga puja . all pieces were sold and the profit gained by the makers was distributed among the youth who contributed their efforts , " said organizer nahush badge .  ( reporting by abha goradia )  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  on the occasion of dhanteras , people of wealth . the festival marks the first day of diwali celebrations . dhanteras is considered to be an auspicious day for buying gold , silver and other valuables and is largely celebrated in north and west india . however , gold prices drifted lower by rs 110 to rs 30,590 per 10 gram at the bullion market despite token buying by jewellers and retailers on the occasion of ' dhanteras ' .