Lokayukta takes cognizance of land conversion around ...
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/Lokayukta-takes-cognizance-of-land-conversion-around-Ranthambore-park/articleshow/55212494.cms

lokayukta takes cognizance of land conversion around ranthambore park  jaipur : rajasthan lokayukta has taken suo motu cognizance of conversion of land for commercial use based on a factually wrong report by deputy conservator of forests within one km radius of the ranthambhore national park .  the media report said then district collector of sawai madhopur , ms poonam has given permission for the conversion of a piece of land on the periphery of the world famous national park on a factually wrong report by deputy conservator of forests .  however , inquiry found that the land is located at 800 meters from the national park not 1100 meters as reported by the forest official .  according to the supreme court order as per wildlife protection act 1972 , all kinds of construction around one km radius of a wildlife sanctuary/national park is prohibited . it was alleged that the wrong report was prepared by the forest official to carry favour to an hotelier in violation of rules .  the lokayukta has sought a detailed factual deport from the district collector and objection certificates ( noc ) issued around the park after the supreme court order within one months .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  two newly elected pro-democracy hong kong lawmakers , barred from parliament for insulting china in their swearing-in ceremony , have set off another round of disorder by scuffling with guards as they tried to retake their oaths @ @ @ @