Nitish for 'impartial probe' into Bhopal 'encounter'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/Nitish-for-impartial-probe-into-Bhopal-encounter/articleshow/55212512.cms

Nitish for ' impartial probe ' into Bhopal ' encounter '  Patna : A day after RJD chief Lalu Prasad demanded a high-level probe into the killing of eight undertrial SIMI men in Madhya Pradesh , ally JD ( U ) president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday sought an " impartial inquiry by an independent agency " into the " encounter " near Bhopal .  " There is a need of more clarity on the incident . The eight undertrial people escaped together and were found together . Also , there are videos of the ' encounter ' issued by the authorities . Certain questions are coming to the minds of people . If questions are being raised , then it should be probed , " Nitish told reporters in Patna .  Lalu On Tuesday said only a high-level probe would clear the suspense whether it was a real or fake encounter . " The killings by police have raised many unanswered questions , " he said .  He also wondered why the BJP was not getting the incident probed . pretence ) in the name of nationalism , " Lalu said .  JD ( U ) secretary general K C Tyagi termed the Bhopal killings as " massacre " . " We have expressed our opposition to the inquiry announced by the MP government . We demand an independent probe into the killings , " Tyagi said .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the on November 2 , to commemorate their dead who are now in purgatory . In Mumbai too , All Souls ' Day was observed and the cemeteries were decorated with flowers and lit up with candles . According to Catholic theology , the soul of a sinner finds a place in the purgatory , where their sins are expiated before the soul goes to heaven .. It is believed that a soul in purgatory requires a lot of prayers and sacrifices from people still living on earth to gain entry into heaven .