All about Chhath, ghats in admn's app
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/All-about-Chhath-ghats-in-admns-app/articleshow/55212489.cms

All about Chhath , ghats in admn 's app  Sheezan Nezami  Nov 2 , 2016 , 11.01 PM IST  Patna : While launching the ' Chhath Puja Patna ' app on Wednesday , Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor said it would be very helpful for the devotees and people who could get all the necessary information about different ghats .  The app has 24X7 helpline and extensive details of all the ghats , including their distance from the road , parking space allotted and the map for direction to reach a particular ghat . Contact numbers of the officials deputed at different ghats have also been provided so that they could be contacted in case of any emergency . The app will also forecast the weather conditions on a particular day .  The first tab named ' About Chhath ' has information related to the festival , like different rituals to be performed on different days . " Necessary information has been provided so that even those who have no idea about this festival can know about it . In fact , from outside the state , especially to celebrate Chhath , " said Kishore while congratulating Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal for getting this app created in a short span of time . He also said a similar app would be created for the upcoming Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti .  Short videos and Chhath songs are also available on this app . Agarwal said the app would be updated from time to time because the water level at different ghats keeps changing . The app also has a list of dangerous ghats and mentions the precautions required to be taken there .  " At some of the ghats , people have to walk long distance to get close to river Ganga . Through this app , they can choose the ghats according to their convenience , " DM said . At Collectorate and Mahendru ghats , people have to cover at least 2km to reach the Ganga water for offering ' arghya ' .  Ghats have been divided into four zones . In zone one , information about all the ghats from Shahpur in Danapur to Pahalwan ghat Gulbi ghat , zone three is for Rani ghat to Khajekalan ghat and zone 4 for Tedhi ghat to Naya Mandir ghat .  List of ponds dug up by PMC would also be added to the app . Kishor also requested people to celebrate Chhath on their terrace or pond in order to avoid much pressure on the Ganga ghats .  Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App . Click here to download it for your device .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together Souls ' Day on November 2 , to commemorate their dead who are now in purgatory . In Mumbai too , All Souls ' Day was observed and the cemeteries were decorated with flowers and lit up with candles . According to Catholic theology , the soul of a sinner finds a place in the purgatory , where their sins are expiated before the soul goes to heaven .. It is believed that a soul in purgatory requires a lot of prayers and sacrifices from people still living on earth to gain entry into heaven .