Farmer murdered for Rs7L, 3 booked
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/agra/Farmer-murdered-forRs7L-3-booked/articleshow/55212496.cms

farmer murdered for rs7lakh , 3 booked  agra : police have registered a case against three persons for allegedly murdering a farmer for rs seven lakh at parvati pura in bah block . the body of the deceased was found buried in a dry well on the field of one of the accused .  according to station house officer ( sho ) of bah , satyendar singh raghav , the body of lakhan singh ( 55 ) was found in a dry well . he was missing since october 26 and on october 31 , his family members had lodged a missing complaint , added the sho .  he further added , " lakhan singh had mortgaged two bigah field to the accused bhupinder singh for a loan of rs five lakh . to release this , he sold another bigah field for rs10 lakh . "  the sho said that lakhan singh had completed the sale formalities on october 26 following which he went missing . he added that some villagers claimed to have spotted the victim and bhupinder singh at the added that the victim was carrying around rs seven lakh when he went missing .  sources said that the lakhan singh 's family members and police started searching him on bhupinder 's field based on suspicion and dug up a 15-20 feet deep dry well that was covered with a fresh mound of soil . after several hours , police found lakhan singh 's body buried in the well .  talking to toi , superintendent of police ( rural ) of agra ( east ) r p gupta said that a case has been registered against bhupinder singh , harendra singh and their father janak under section 302 of ipc based on a complaint lodged by the victim 's son prem singh . he added that the body has been sent for postmortem .  stay updated on the go with times of india news app . click here to download it for your device .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  catholics observed all souls ' day on november 2 , to commemorate their dead who are now in purgatory . in mumbai too , all souls ' day was observed and the cemeteries were decorated with flowers and lit up with candles . according to catholic theology , the soul of a sinner finds a place in the purgatory , where their sins are expiated before the soul goes to heaven .. it is believed that a soul in purgatory requires a lot of prayers and sacrifices from people still living on earth to gain entry into heaven .