Tripura Guv moots energy circuit with neighbouring countries
http://www.theshillongtimes.com/2016/11/08/tripura-guv-moots-energy-circuit-with-neighbouring-countries/

tripura guv moots energy circuit with neighbouring countries  agencies tuesday , november 8 , 2016  agartala : tripura governor tathagata roy on monday called for creating energy circuit encompassing bangladesh , myanmar and india 's north-east for development of the concerning areas . inaugurating an international seminar , ' the present and future of natural gas : challenges and opportunities for n-e india ' roy said , " our north-east and two neighbouring countries , bangladesh and myanmar have well reserves of natural gas . " the possibility of creating an energy circuit involving these regions should be explored for faster development " . the seminar was organised by the synergy for energy challenges and opportunities in n-e ( secone ) , an organisation funded by indian energy companies ongc , gail , iol etc . chairman of secone , p k chowdhury , also the former director of iocl said , " we need regional cooperation in energy sector for development and prosperity . bangladesh and north-east both have gas reserves which needs to be tapped in a planned way . both have prospect energy cooperation would be possible with myanmar . " already china has made agreements for gas cooperation with myanmar and build-up infrastructures for transportation of gas inside china . with the restoration of democracy in myanmar , we can hope cooperation with india is possible , " he said . md . maqbul e elahi , former director of petro-bangla , who led the 12-member delegation of bangladesh said , it has a long border with india 's north eastern region and both the areas have good reserves of gas and energy cooperation is required for the interest of both the countries . " i think both the countries are interested in energy cooperation . now we need to find out the means and ways of cooperation . we also need to exchange expertise and information regarding the energy reserve " , he said . manager of ongc , tripura unit , s.c soni said gas exploration was expedited in the state as the demand of natural gas is very high in the country . " we also need good investment and building up infrastructures for proper utilization of gas " @ @ @ @ @ @ @