Experts call for promotion of Ayush
http://www.theshillongtimes.com/2016/11/08/experts-call-for-promotion-of-ayush/

experts call for promotion of ayush  by our reporter tuesday , november 8 , 2016  by our reporter  shillong : the north eastern institute of ayurveda &amp; homeopathy ( neiah ) began the six-day continuing medical education ( cme ) programme for medical officers ( ayurveda ) here on monday . the programme highlighted the need to promote ayush systems of medicine in meghalaya . ayush is a non-allopathic medical system and is an acronym of the medical systems practiced since ancient times in india such as ayurveda , yoga &amp; naturopathy , unani , siddha and homeopathy . speaking as the chief guest at the inaugural function , h. lamin , pro vice-chancellor , nehu said , " there is a need to promote ayurveda and homeopathy in the state to enhance the delivery of health care services and to supplement medical manpower to contribute to research and healthcare . " stating that research calls for harnessing bio-resources in the north east , he said that ayush has played an important role in the development of the nation besides propagating the medical practice exchange of ideas between ayush medical practitioners and traditional healers , lamin said , " there is a need to uplift , improve and propagate the exchange of ideas as there are rooms for improvement . " secretary , health and family welfare , k.w. marbaniang bemoaned the shortage of doctors in the state . he said , " the number of doctors in the state is 0.2 every 1000 people while the national average is 0.8 per 1000 . it will take us 20 years to fill that gap . " he added that government hospitals in the state are overburdened as there is dearth of specialist doctors in the state . " there is shortage of manpower in the state and hence the integration of ayush plays an important as far as boosting the medical system is concerned , " he added . later , speaking to reporters at the end of the inaugural programme , p.k. goswami , director , neiah said that the cme programme is necessary for doctors to update themselves with new developments . " for six days there will be experts interacting with the trained manpower in the state , health tourism will be given the much needed boost , " he said . " the aim is to revitalize traditional knowledge as the region is rich in flora and fauna . we need time and research oriented studies which will boost medical research , " he added . neiah has ayurvedic and homeopathic colleges with an admission capacity of 50 students each along with a 100-bedded ayurvedic hospital and 50-bedded homeopathy hospital . speaking of the patients ' response to the treatment , he said , " 150-200 patients frequent the opd in a month which is a good response . " neiah is proposing to come up with indoor patient department ( ipd ) while the opd is situated at nongrim hills and mawdiangdiang , goswami informed .