Low quality seeds spoil strawberry produce
http://www.theshillongtimes.com/2016/11/08/low-quality-seeds-spoil-strawberry-produce/

Low quality seeds spoil strawberry produce  From Our Correspondent Tuesday , November 8 , 2016  Hydroponic project in State fails to achieve target  NONGPOH : Dewlieh Horti Hub at Umsning in Ri Bhoi district that was chosen for the first hydroponic project for production of strawberry runners in the State has drawn flak for failing to achieve it target . The hydroponic project for strawberry production at the state-run horticulture farm , which is spread over 1,000 sqm , was sanctioned under the 13th Finance Commission at a cost of Rs 1.30 crore in 2013-14 . The project succeeded in its first year of implementation that had benefitted many farmers . However , this year , the project was just a waste as none of the mother plants survived . The Agriculture Development Officer in charge of Dewlieh Farm , Solomon Pyngrope , said production was hampered because the Department received an infected mother plant from the supplier , Zopar Exports Private Limited . This came to light when members of the Ri Bhoi Youth Welfare Organisation ( RBYWO ) led by its general the farm at Dewlieh to get first-hand information on the failure of the project in its second phase of implementation . It was found that not even a single mother plant exists inside the poly-house . However , ADO in charge Pyngrope said since all the infected mother plants received by the department this year died , so they were removed from the poly-house . Kharnaior said the farm alleged that the department instead of planting F1 , planted an F3 variety of seeds . He said it was surprising that none of the plants survived despite the poly-house having modern equipment and technology . Kharnaior further said the supplier , Zopar Exports Private Limited should take full responsibility for the failure of the project which has caused huge loss to the government and especially to the strawberry farmers of the region . He also said the State government should have cancelled the contract to this company for its failure to supply good quality strawberry mother plants . In this connection , members of RBYWO have filed an RTI with the District Horticulture Officer of Ri Bhoi District seeking full details cause of why the project failed in its second year of implementations . Kharnaior also said that the organization will soon file a complaint with the Public Accounts Committee ( PAC ) for enquiry , adding that if needed , the organization will even complaint to the Centre , he added . Meanwhile , when newsmen tried to seek information from the District Horticulture Officer , Annie B Lyngdoh , she refused to comment asserting that she would only reply to the RTI filed by the RBYWO.