A toxic brew of desalinated water
http://www.kashmirmonitor.in/news-a-toxic-brew-of-desalinated-water-96696.aspx

get subscribe now  a toxic brew of desalinated water  wednesday , 13 january 2016  jawed naqvi  237 views  the death of iran 's princess ashraf in dubai last week turned the focus on a defining cultural metaphor of our times -- an unequal contest between waning riparian civilisations of which she was a part , and a noxious upstart culture that came with the advent of desalinated water , in which she perished .  babylon in the heart of mesopotamia , persia , the nile , nabatea , petra , galilee , the indus valley flanked an intellectual burgeoning whose sinews often stretched beyond their political perimeters . then one day we had their unapproachable majesty tested and even occasionally trammelled by the politics of aluminium smelters that came with hydrocarbon flares .  a by-product was desalinated water and a regressive religious cult whose practitioners could wilfully endorse the slitting of throats of innocents and accept mass rape as divine retribution . the tallest of skyscrapers that petrodollars could conjure up in these stricken parts must continue to make seawater the need dire .  the inescapable absurdity of ashraf 's exiled life in dubai , where the twin sister of the shah died at 96 on thursday , ought to have come early . i was visiting iran for my dubai newspaper in september 1980 to cover the turn of events in her country . the immigration officer at tehran 's mehrabad airport scratched his head to figure out where dubai might be before he could also accept that it had a robust english newspaper where indian , pakistani and british expatriates published news stories of quality . it is a hamlet south of bandar abbas , perhaps , across the khaleej fars , a junior custom officer had concluded . lord curzon had referred to the gulf as a british lake .  before iran 's 1979 turbulence , it was safe to believe that ashraf served as the true power behind her brother , the shah . it was she who pushed him into taking power in a 1953 coup engineered by the cia .  ashraf 's past had an organic link with high society in europe asia 's cultural alcoves .  she had her share of tragedy too . assassins killed her son on a paris street just after the islamic revolution , her twin brother died of cancer shortly after , while a niece died of a 2001 drug overdose in london and a nephew killed himself in boston 10 years later .  yet , she always defended her brother 's rule and held on to her royal past .  ashraf 's past had an organic link with high society in europe but her presence was just as socially pervasive in south asia 's cultural alcoves . for the ' cultured ' men , to have a persian wife was a status to aspire to -- one that could only be challenged with a deeper knowledge of persian literature . everyone said ' khudahafiz ' for goodbye , and reference to allah was administered in its proper arabic context -- fi amaan allah . the shia-sunni identity existed but without today 's toxic subtext . persian was as much a sunni language as it was flaunted for its shia mystical lineage .  divorces , and her penchant for gambling was toasted even among the orthodox milieu of old lucknow . her legend intertwined with the flavour of the kings and queens of the era -- the wallis simpson affair , king hussein 's love for queen alia and her tragic death in a helicopter crash , and , of course , the grand arrival of farah diba as the empress of iran . these were all part of a tradition in which nehru and edwina mountbatten too found a bit role .  there was no context better or more enticing than the fact that these giant , larger-than-life figures strode the planet in our vicinity . it was n't entirely in the realm of exaggeration that sometimes these apparitions mingled with ordinary mortals . princess ashraf is credited with helping indian movie mogul raj kapoor get his 1960s magnum opus sangam run in iran for close to two years . indian distributors who won the contract through the princess call their london headquarters ' sangam ' .  born in october 1919 , princess ashraf was the daughter of the monarch reza engineered by britain and later was forced to abdicate the throne after a 1941 invasion by britain and russia . by 1953 , the cia and british intelligence helped orchestrate the coup that overthrew iran 's popularly elected prime minister mohammad mossadegh over fears he was tilting towards the soviet union .  but the shah was " a man of indecision " , says a cia account of the coup first published by the new york times in 2000 . to push the coup along , the plotters reached out to " the shah 's dynamic and forceful twin sister " who had reportedly already been in touch with us and british agents . after " considerable pressure " by her , the shah reportedly agreed .  while her brother 's government ruled in opulence and its secret police tortured political activists , the question that comes to mind is this : how have we fared with the clerical regime that followed the fall of the pahlavis ?  think of ayatollah khalkhali , " the laughing executioner " of tehran , who self-confessedly relished his daily turnover of did he not fill in with aplomb for the shah 's savak secret police ? there must have been more to iran than the repression of the shia clergy . there is evidence that the two future rivals often colluded to target tudeh communists and the bahai minority .  the shah 's liberal veneer drew even his critics to his charmed circle , of which princess ashraf was the presiding deity . on one occasion , ignoring the orders of his own communist party of india , renowned urdu scholar and poet ali sardar jafri accepted a significant award from the shah of iran . and though in the tradition of communist parties jafri was forced return the prize , iran 's civilisational links continued to explore ideals that enticed him . that could not be said of a worldview nourished by desalinated water .