Al Qaeda warns Riyadh of retaliation over executions
http://www.kashmirmonitor.in/news-al-qaeda-warns-riyadh-of-retaliation-over-executions-96715.aspx

get subscribe now  al qaeda warns riyadh of retaliation over executions  wednesday , 13 january 2016  agencies  108 views  dubai : the saudi-yemeni and north african branches of al qaeda have threatened to avenge saudi arabia 's execution of more than 40 militants .  al qaeda in the arabian peninsula ( aqap ) and al qaeda in the islamic maghreb said in an online statement that the country had executed the militants despite knowing that the " mujahedin have pledged to avenge the pure blood of their brothers " .  the jan 2 executions were a " new crime committed by the regime of al saud , demonstrating their tyranny and their fight against jihad " , the statement added , claiming that the judicial system served the ruling family in " cementing their rule and oppressing their opponents " .  " they should fear the day when the relatives of those martyrs , their brothers and partisans ... celebrate ( vengeance ) against the infidel tyrants . "  the statement charged that the rulers " shed the who were celebrating the beginning of their new year " .  saudi arabia announced the execution of 47 people convicted of " terrorism " . among them were four shias , including prominent cleric nimr al nimr , whose death triggered a diplomatic crisis with iran .  in an audio statement posted online , leading saudi al qaeda chief ibrahim al assiri warned : " we will deal with al saud , now that the blood has been shed . "  meanwhile , masked men threw firebombs at an intelligence service compound in the city of qatif in eastern saudi arabia , in an apparent reprisal for the execution of the cleric .  an interior ministry spokesman said " there was a failed terrorist attempt to burn the building with molotov cocktails " and that one of the assailants was captured .  video footage posted on social media and dated jan 9 showed several masked young men moving under cover of darkness and lobbing firebombs over the protective outer wall of a building compound . most of the firebombs were seen exploding on the ground inside in the region sought to distance themselves from the attack , saying it could discredit peaceful protests that had been taking place in the area since nimr 's execution .  last tuesday , four armed men set a bus carrying workers in the oil-producing eastern province on fire . state oil company saudi aramco said none of its employees had been injured .