Microsoft signed a big deal that shows there's still plenty of life left in ...
http://www.businessinsider.in/Microsoft-signed-a-big-deal-that-shows-theres-still-plenty-of-life-left-in-MSN-yet/articleshow/50553219.cms

microsoft signed a big deal that shows there 's still plenty of life left in msn yet  msn , microsoft 's web portal and the default homepage for the internet explorer browser , announced on tuesday it has signed a multi-year deal with content recommendation platform taboola .  neither company would comment on the size of the deal , but it will see taboola take over the content recommendations on msn in the 50 markets in which it operates . if you browse msn.com today , you 'll see taboola content recommendations from publishers and advertisers right at the top of the homepage , and within articles . they 're tailored to each user , so it 's unlikely any two users would see the same homepage .  msn has also taken on taboola 's " audience exchange product , " which will see its technology used to predict which microsoft services should be promoted to users . so a user browsing msn on a windows 8 device might be served an ad prompting them to upgrade , whereas an android user might be example of an app recommendation powered by taboola on msn .  in addition , msn 's editors will be taking up taboola 's newsroom product , which allows them to live-test different content , creative , and placements to different sets of users to see which performs best ( known as a/b testing . )  in june last year , microsoft announced it was handing over all the direct-sales of ads on msn to aol , while ad tech company appnexus would sell the programmatic ads on the site .  taboola has now become the main source of content recommendation and personalization on msn ( microsoft still has smaller deals with other partners like outbrain , but taboola will power the majority of content recommendations on msn , plus offering the additional personalization and exchange products . ) microsoft is handing off more responsibility for revenue generation on msn to a third-party in order to concentrate on using the website to promote its products .  microsoft is using every web asset it can ( through partnerships if needs be ) to promote windows products . msn still november , according to millward brown 's compete.com analytics service ( see chart below ) - that it can market microsoft products to .  the priority with msn has shifted from making money from selling other people 's ads ( which it still does via aol and appnexus , ) to making money by promoting its own assets .  it could help drive msn 's profitability  speaking to business insider , joe cepollina , microsoft principal program management lead for the windows universal store , said msn has increasingly become a " strategic product " for microsoft because it drives users its other products and services .  cepollina said : " over the last 12 months msn has been a profitable offering , since we turned over the product strategy and it became part of a broader organization known as the windows universal store . it 's in a very strategic place at this point in time and doing a great job in helping drive the microsoft brand . we probably , definitely , could n't have said the same 18 months ago . "  cepollina but it 's clear that the decision not to focus on original content and to outsource advertising to third-parties will have led to some efficiencies .  this is huge for taboola  this partnership marks one of the biggest ( if not the biggest ) deal in 9-year-old taboola 's history . the size of msn 's audience means taboola will now become the number one syndicated advertising platform in the us in terms of reach , taboola ceo adam singolda predicts . in november , taboola was number two in terms of reach in the us , behind google .  what 's also interesting for taboola is that it won the bulk of the msn business as the result of a competitive pitch , which cepollina said had been ongoing for around five or six months .  while msn will still continue using a number of other partners in this area - including outbrain , which will continune its long-running deal to offer content recommendation on some areas of the msn site - winning business from competitors will see taboola boosting its market share . and the powerful its new business pitch is to advertisers and future publisher partners .  in addition , cepollina said the partnership also helped taboola develop better products : " one of the core benefits of working with taboola was their empathy and willingness to partner with us like part of the development team . they understand our business objectives and worked with us closely and iteratively to come up with solutions that did n't just play to their core product strengths , but really extended their product strengths . "  times global partners  times global partners is an initiative focused on partnering with established and emerging global digital companies for growing their presence and business in india through growth in their brand , audience , adoption , distribution and monetization.