Jakarta bombings: here's what we know about ISIS in Indonesia
http://www.vox.com/2016/1/14/10767986/jakarta-bombings-isis-indonesia

jakarta bombings : here 's what we know about isis in indonesia  a series of bombings hit a shopping area in jakarta , indonesia 's capital , late on wednesday night . at least two civilians and five of the attackers were killed , according to the bbc .  an isis-affiliated news outlet claims the group was responsible for the attacks ; indonesian police have n't fully confirmed it but suspect it to be true . jakarta police chief tito karnavian told the bbc that bahrun naim , an indonesian militant who is believed to be in syria , had been " planning this for a while . "  the attack raises a very serious question : how much of a presence does isis have in the world 's largest muslim-majority country ? what follows is brief guide to what we know about isis radicalism in indonesia -- and what 's concerning about it .  isis 's role in indonesia  indonesia is the world 's most populous muslim-majority country -- about 210 million of its 250 million people are muslim . estimates proportion , but a concerning number on its own -- have left indonesia to go fight for isis in syria and iraq .  " there are at least 600 southeast asians fighting in syria , " the soufan group , a private firm focusing on terrorism analysis , wrote in a december 2015 report . " the vast majority are from indonesia . "  this is n't for lack of trying on isis 's part : according to the soufan group , isis has been posting propaganda videos aimed at recruiting indonesians since july 2014 . yet , perhaps owing to indonesia 's historically moderate brand of islam , they have n't succeeded . sidney jones , the director of the jakarta-based institute for policy analysis of conflict , told the nikkei asian review that as a percentage of total population , belgians have been 20 times as likely as indonesians to join isis .  still , even the small number of indonesian recruits pose a threat if some of them were to come home from syria or iraq to plan attacks . it 's possible that 's be seen .  another possibility , perhaps more concerning , is that isis has linked up with a homegrown indonesian militant group . indonesia is home to a number of islamist extremist groups , most notably jemaah islamiyah , which has links to al-qaeda . ji has pulled off far more devastating attacks than wednesday 's : a 2002 ji attack in bali killed 202 people , and a 2009 attack in jakarta killed nine .  ji has condemned isis as apostates , but it 's not obvious that all indonesian militant groups feel the same way . luke hunt lists off a few that are thought to be friendly to isis in the diplomat :  there are also fears that the abu sayyaf -- whose specialty remains kidnapping and ransom -- in the southern philippines is also tying-up with the daesh , resurrecting ji demands for an islamic caliphate across southeast asia .  a separate report quoted national police spokesman anton charliyan as saying the east indonesian mujahidin terrorist group , known by its indonesian acronym mit and led by santoso , one of the most assistance from isis , which is also calling for attacks on western targets .  he said isis was spreading its propaganda across five indonesian provinces -- east java , lampung , central sulawesi , south sulawesi , and west sulawesi .  " the santoso group is part of the isis network . you can see that the poso terror group even has anti-tank weapons , " he said . " it 's not easy to break into the terrorist lair , but we keep on trying . "  it 's worth being cautious about linking any one of these groups to wednesday 's jakarta attacks . take mit , for example : an ihs jane 's 360 assessment from november cautioned that " there is no indication that santoso 's group has the capacity to carry out attacks in the capital , especially against well-protected state targets . " just because terrorist groups exist domestically in indonesia does n't mean they were responsible for particular attacks .  but if any of these groups were to begin functioning as an isis affiliate in indonesia , and launch a be a serious concern -- especially if they linked up with indonesians who got training from isis headquarters in syria . the isis threat to indonesia may not be huge , but it is real .  forgot username ?  almost done ,  by becoming a registered user , you are also agreeing to our terms and confirming that you have read our privacy policy .  authenticating  great !  choose an available username to complete sign up .  in order to provide our users with a better overall experience , we ask for more information from facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience . we do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with facebook.