Indian Jews are genetically more subcontinental than West Asian
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/national/indian-jews-are-genetically-more-subcontinental-than-west-asian/article8108020.ece

Indian Jews are genetically more subcontinental than West Asian  1923-2016 Lieutenant General ( Retd ) JFR Jacob , a decorated military man and Jew who was the Indian Army 's Eastern Commander during the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war , passed away in New Delhi on Wednesday PTI  Hyderabad , January 14 :  Did you know that the first migrant Jew arrived in the Indian sub-continent about 1,500 years ago in Cochin ( now Kochi ) ?  Further , the Indian Jewish population is a unique blend of Indian and West Asian genetic ancestry , with a majority of its genes coming from South Asian ancestors . These findings have been published by an international scientific group led by Indians in Nature 's online journal Scientific Reports .  There are three main distinct Jewish groups living in India -- the Jews of Cochin in Kerala , the Bene Israel in Mumbai and the Baghdadi Jews in Kolkata . Each of these communities is socially linked more to their neighbours than one another .  There are several stories about their migration to India records and inscriptions have ensured their origin remains shrouded in legends .  Using genetic data , an international team of scientists led by Kumarasamy Thangaraj from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Hyderabad ; and scientists from Estonian Biocentre , Tratu , Estonia ; Amala Institute of Medical Sciences , Thrissur , University of Kolkata , India and Genome Foundation , Hyderabad have now traced the founder of the Indian Jewish populations .  The analysis suggests that the Indian Jew possesses traces of West Asian ancestry , together with a more likely unidirectional gene-flow from their contemporary Indian populations . " To trace the origin and mixture of Indian Jewish populations , extensive DNA analysis of Indian Jewish was conducted using high-resolution genetic markers and compared them with native Indian populations and people from rest of the world , " said CCMB 's Director Ch Mohan Rao .  " The expansion of the Indian Jews from West Asia was followed by extensive admixture and assimilation with local populations ; nevertheless the rooted ancestry to their ancestral place can be testified because of a higher proportion of genetic .  Global scenario  Jewish communities are distributed throughout the world . However , of all the Jewish diaspora , Indian Jews are the least studied . Although genetic studies on European Jews have traced their links to West Asia , the exact parental population group and time of dispersal of Indian Jewish has remained disputed .  " The initial admixture with local Indian populations followed by strict endogamy has made the Indian Jewish a unique populations and studying their genomes will be useful in disease mapping , " said Gyaneshwer Chaubey , a member of the research team .  The CCMB has been conducting path-breaking research in unearthing genetic links of several populations under its Population Genetics research programme .  Get more of your favourite news delivered to your inbox  1 . Comments will be moderated by The Hindu Business Line editorial team . 2 . Comments that are abusive , personal , incendiary or irrelevant can not be published . 3 . Please write complete sentences . Do not type comments in all capital letters , or in all lower case letters , or substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . We may remove hyperlinks within comments . 5 . Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name , to avoid rejection .