Gandhiji's Request To My Grandmother, MS Subbulakshmi
http://www.ndtv.com/blog/gandhijis-request-to-my-grandmother-ms-subbulakshmi-1261287

Gandhiji 's Request To My Grandmother , MS Subbulakshmi  EMAIL  PRINT  COMMENTS  That voice .  My best memory of her is of her practicing her singing during long summer afternoons at home . Not a day went by when she did not practice . She would gently tune the tanpura , her graceful fingers running over the strings . She had the most beautiful hands , and the way she would move them or bring them together while singing was a wonderful sight in itself . She would close her eyes and almost seem to resonate with the vibrating strings of the tanpura . Only after that would she hand it over to the person behind her , and begin .  That voice .  It would fill the heavy afternoon air and wrap itself around you and in you . In that moment , she was MS Subbulakshmi , a legend , an icon . When she would finish , it would be like she had woken up from another plane of existence and returned to the reality that included she would be my grandmother once again .  My father was by blood the grand-nephew of Sadashivam , my thatha or grandfather and Subbulakshmi or patti . While he moved into their household when he was a baby , he was formally adopted when he turned 13 . There was a huge-inter generational gap between her and me , which forbade a more informal relationship . But she was very affectionate and always a wonderful presence to be around . There was something about her that seemed so pure and so childlike that I always enjoyed meeting her . We would go over for either lunch or tiffin , and on entering , I would greet her with a hug ; just before leaving , I would have to go to the puja room with her and my grandfather , offer a prayer and a formal namaskar by touching their feet for their blessings ; then I would leave with the prasadam .  On getting older , I witnessed much discourse among adults of the family and outside that was about deconstructing her mystique . She was a young voice . Born to the devadasi tradition , she was determined to not live as one with her patronage dependent on the whims of a man . On coming to Madras as a teenager , she performed and acted in movies , had a full life and was establishing herself as a woman of great talent . When she met and married my grandfather , she took on a mantle of Brahminrespectability that she had perhaps craved all her life . India , while in the throes of flux with the independence movement , was still entrenched in a certain patriarchy of gender and caste that restricted agency to women . This was really strong in the field of the arts . Carnatic music at the time was the domain ofBrahminmen , and her sheer talent and presence transcended that in a way never seen before .  Kishori Amonkar called her the " aathvaan sur " , Lata Mangeshkar called her " tapaswini " , Bade Ghulam Ali khan called her " Surswaralakshmi Subbulakshmi " and Sarojini Naidu conferred upon her the title of " the nightingale of India . to national fame in 1947 . The Hindi version was released in Delhi by Sarojini Naidu and it moved Nehru to say , " Who am I , a mere Prime Minister , before the Queen of Song ? " Both my grandparents were active in the freedom movement . My grandfather more so than my grandmother , even having been arrested and thrown in jail by the British for a while . My grandmother 's performances would generate money that would go towards the freedom movement and the Kasturba Foundation . In 1947 , just a few months post-independence , my grandfather received a call asking for my grandmother to sing one of Gandhiji 's favourite bhajans and send it to Delhi . My grandfather said that they were unfamiliar with the bhajan and would not be able to do it justice , and could perhaps another singer sing it . They promptly got a call back from Gandhiji , who said he would rather have Subbulakshmi speak the bhajan than have anyone else sing it . So overnight they recorded " Hari Tum Haro " and sent it to new year , while listening to All India Radio for the news , as she did all her life , she heard the announcement of Gandhiji 's assassination , after which she heard her own voice singing Hari Tum Haro - distraught , she fainted . Even years later , she would always choke up and cry when narrating the story . In her lifetime , she would hear that bhajan played twice more after assassinations - after Indira Gandhi 's and Rajiv Gandhi 's deaths , right after the announcements on All India Radio .  She was the first Asian musician to receive the Ramon Magsaysay award for charity work . All her life , she and my grandfather gave away all their money earned from concerts to various charitable organisations . Both of them believed that her musical ability was divine and could not be monetised . She believed herself to be just a tool of god channeling blessings through her songs . The wonder of it was when she sang , she could take us , her listeners , into a plane so divine it made us , her picture hangs with pictures of various gods and goddesses in puja rooms .  She was also the first Indian musician to perform at the UN General Assembly and one of the first to take Carnatic music abroad .  But through all of that , she remained a shy simple person , still excited when anyone went up to her and told her how much they loved her music . I remember her as someone who disliked any kind of rude behavior . Injustice and violence hurt her personally , and she hated anger and confrontations .  In the years that I was a dancer , she came for every single one of my performances and would sit in the front row and keep rhythm . I would try and block out the fact that she was there because my nerves would be shot . I had the honour of escorting her to Rashtrapati Bhavan when she was awarded the Bharat Ratna , and I remember her as both happy and sad as by then my grandfather had passed away .  My last picture of her a hospital bed giving my hand a slight squeeze the day before she died . The picture I prefer is the one with of her with her great smile and the flashing diamond nose rings , one of which I received after she died . With her music that I still listen to almost on a daily basis , I feel her presence strongly .  In every generation , they say , comes a person who shakes everything that was held true up until then and fills imaginations in a way they have never been inspired before . My grandmother Subbulakshmi was one such person .  My first birthday blessings ceremony  My mom , brother and me with my gran  Me ( on left ) with my grandparents and cousins  ( Swati Thiyagarajan is an Environment Editor with NDTV )  Disclaimer : The opinions expressed within this article are the personal opinions of the author . The facts and opinions appearing in the article do not reflect the views of NDTV and NDTV does not assume any responsibility or liability for the same .