Straddling indie and mainstream
http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/straddling-indie-and-mainstream/article8056910.ece

bejoy nambiar has always had intriguing music in his films , his signature being an ensemble of exciting indie music talent and their sexy picturisations . the mani ratnam prot ? g ? won more fans for the way he used a re-imagined version of the mohammad rafi classic ' khoya khoya chaand ' in shaitan than for the film itself .  his next , david , followed suit . nambiar can be credited to have ushered in the indie world into hindi film music . now , with wazir , he is put somewhat outside his personal space . wazir , being produced and written by vidhu vinod chopra , has brought in his own favourite bollywood regulars such as shantanu moitra .  it 's not that nambiar has n't shown affinity towards popular film composers ; he worked with anirudh ravichander , the man behind ' kolaveri di ' in david . but when you hear ' tere bin ' , you find the imprint of chopra 's previous collaborations with moitra .  moitra has the tendency to repeat himself . the will straightaway remind you of ' ferari mon ' , a song from one of moitra 's best works , the bengali film antaheen . but the intention is pure and the song has its own identity . it is rendered with warmth and depth by sonu nigam and shreya ghosal  ankit tiwary seems like a rather odd fit for a film by nambiar . but a t-series favourite , with a knack for delivering hit sufi-rock style ballads , tiwary thankfully does a pretty good job with ' tu mere paas ' . yes , he needs to experiment before his style reaches its expiry date , but he composes a likable , if slightly sentimental , song of love and melancholy .  it 's unfortunate that overuse of the word ' maula ' in songs has made it into a clich ? in the hindi film music lexicon . ' maula ' , a standard qawwali , thankfully sounds clutter-free because of some fresh arrangement by moitra , and the chord changes are particularly effective .  my favourite is ' khel khel mein ' , where best tracks of delhi-based fusion band advaita with a monologue by bachchan ( first heard in the trailer of the film ) seems to be the kind of juxtaposition nambiar enjoys . it makes for a very addictive , on-loop listen .  ' tere liye mera kareem ' , composed by prashant pillai , sounds grim , raw and powerful . pillai makes great use of vocal harmony with the electric guitar riffs to compelling effect . the wazir theme by gaurav godkhindi captures the pulse of a thriller . expect it to underline crucial scenes and to certainly grow on you .  overall , wazir is a good album , one that has imagination , relevance for its narrative and that does n't seem to insult the tastes of listeners .