Earth is in the middle of a 'shooting gallery' and a new NASA ...
http://www.businessinsider.in/Earth-is-in-the-middle-of-a-shooting-gallery-and-a-new-NASA-initiative-is-trying-to-protect-us/articleshow/50631565.cms

earth is in the middle of a ' shooting gallery ' and a new nasa initiative is trying to protect us  right now earth is surrounded by over 13,500 chunks of space rock , and if one of them bumps into us , the damage could be enough to flatten cities , wipe countries off the map , or even cause global extinctions .  " we are in a shooting gallery , " nahum melamed , a project manager with the aerospace corporation , recently said during an event for the american institute of aeronautics and astronautics in california .  now nasa is getting serious about the potential threat by creating the planetary defense coordination office ( pdco ) . the office will track the potentially dangerous objects , warn us of any close passes , and continue working with the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) and the department of defense to figure out what we 'll do if one ever heads directly for earth .  right now nasa keeps tabs on these threats through its near-earth object ( neo ) other celestial rock passes within 1.3 astronomical units of the sun ( 1 au is 93 million miles , or the distance from the earth to the sun ) , then nasa tags it as an neo . if it comes within 0.05 astronomical units of earth ( a little more than 4.5 million miles ) , then it 's labeled as a potentially hazardous neo .  nasa has already recorded over 13,500 neos , and over 1,600 are potentially hazardous .  you can tell why melamed says we 're in a shooting gallery in the map of near-earth objects by the armagh observatory below . these neos are orbiting the sun , but they move faster than earth and their orbits are less stable so could potentially come careening in our direction .  at the center of the yellow circled area is earth ( the yellow dot in the center is the sun ) . all the green dots represent asteroids at a safe distance , while red and yellow dots represent a ring of potentially dangerous asteroids :  luckily , all of the neos we earth within the next century , according to nasa , and the next potentially dangerous ( though still not at all likely ) encounter wo n't happen until 2027 .  however , sometimes nasa misses an neo , like the one that unexpectedly flew past earth on halloween in 2015 . and even though there 's a low likelihood that earth will get hit , asteroids come hurtling toward earth at hundreds of miles per hour , and the potential damage is not something to take lightly . ( remember what happened to the dinosaurs ? )  we know that these impacts have happened regularly ( if not often ) throughout earth 's history because there 's evidence buried in rock layers on the planet . but impacts are incredibly difficult to predict . they do n't happen in any kind of predictable pattern or strike in a predictable spot . and if one ever heads right for us , we do n't have a plan .  " while there are no known impact threats at this time , the 2013 chelyabinsk super-fireball and the recent ' halloween to remain vigilant and keep our eyes to the sky , " john grunsfeld said in a nasa press release .  most importantly , the newly formed pdco will be working on a way to redirect a dangerous asteroid should one ever head for the earth .  one potential plan nasa 's asteroid redirect mission concept . this plan would use the gravity of another object to tug the incoming neo slightly off its original orbital path . other possible plans that pdco will work in include involve a spacecraft that will fire at an neo to deflect it .  if all else fails , then nasa will be in direct contact with fema to get us as prepared as possible .  " even if intervention is not possible , nasa would provide expert input to fema about impact timing , location and effects to inform emergency response operations , " according to a nasa post . " in turn , fema would handle the preparations and response planning related to the consequences of atmospheric entry or impact to u.s. communities . "  times global partners with established and emerging global digital companies for growing their presence and business in india through growth in their brand , audience , adoption , distribution and monetization.