EPOS in Limbo, PDS Diversion Goes Unchecked
http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/hyderabad/EPOS-in-Limbo-PDS-Diversion-Goes-Unchecked/2016/02/19/article3285160.ece

epos in limbo , pds diversion goes unchecked  hyderabad : the diversion of rice and other essential commodities distributed through fair price shops ( fps ) continues unabated in ts , especially greater hyderabad , and authorities have seized commodities worth rs 11.5 lakh in the last three months .  in separate operations , vigilance &amp; enforcement , police and civil supplies officials seized these public distribution system ( pds ) commodities and slapped 61 cases , 25 of which are criminal .  officials of the civil supplies department believe that implementation of electronic point of sale ( epos ) could have put a check on the diversion of essential commodities . epos is a system put in use on a pilot basis at 18 fps in the last two years and was extremely successful . it utilises bio-metric identity of beneficiary whose food security card is linked with aadhaar card . " only genuine beneficiary or his family members can avail the ration benefits . if the dealer tries to divert anything , it would show online , " said an official , departmental order issued on nov 13 , 2015 directed the department against the implementation of epos . " the earlier order had put a stay on operationalising distribution of goods through epos . we are waiting for orders from the government to implement epos , " said another official on the condition of anonymity . according to him , the department had distributed epos machines to 1,545 fps operating under ghmc limits . training too had been imparted to fps dealers as well as officials concerned .  as per the national food security act ( nfsa ) , implementation of epos will also ensure that the dealers of pds will get a commission of rs 75 per quintal instead of the present rs 25 per quintal . there are 859 fps in the 9 circles of ghmc which fall under the jurisdiction of hyderabad chief rationing officer . similarly , there are 686 fps in 3 circles which are part of rangareddy district but fall under the jurisdiction of the hyderabad chief rationing officer .  the distribution of cards per fps is such that 9 circles have 8.23 lakh making dealers in city outskirts overloaded with number of beneficiaries .  " some of the fps deal with only 600 card-holders whereas some others have up to 3,000 cards . we are also hoping to start rationalisation of fps by distributing between 900 and 1,200 card-holders for each shop for their own economic viability . main reason for possible diversion of essential commodities is non-viability of running an fps , " a senior official pointed out .  at the current rate of commission , a dealer who distributes commodities to 900 card holders sell 150 quintals of rice , 9 quintals of wheat , 4.5 quintals of sugar , 9 quintals of pulses and 3000 litres of kerosene , earning himself a revenue of rs 15 to rs 17,000 per month .  of the same , he pays up to rs 7,000 and rs 5,000 towards shop rent and salary of staff respectively , earning a net income of rs 5,000 a month .  disclaimer : we respect your thoughts and views ! but we need to be judicious while moderating your comments . all the comments posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks . try to avoid outside hyperlinks inside the comment . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines .