Allowed Collateral Damage to Prevent Worse: Police
http://www.newindianexpress.com/nation/Allowed-Collateral-Damage-to-Prevent-Worse-Police/2016/02/19/article3284807.ece

allowed collateral damage to prevent worse : police  policemen guarding jnusu president kanhaiya kumar 's house in begusarai district of bihar on thursday . kumar 's father , jaishankar singh , said the family had politely urged the policemen to go back as the village was with them pti  new delhi : a day after arrested jnusu kanhaiya kumar and journalists were attacked by unruly lawyers inside patiala house court , delhi police -- which had remained a mute spectator -- in its report to the union home ministry on thursday said they could not dare confront the lawyers because of past experience , and therefore " consciously allowed collateral damage " .  the report goes on to say that mediapersons were attacked because they were recording video and taking photographs of the agitating lawyers .  justifying the decision to do nothing when lawyers unleashed violence on the court premises , the report accessed by express says : " past experiences in 1980 , jaipur , chennai , allahabad etc have clearly shown that police have always been at the receiving end and force or for not exercising enough restraint in cases of tackling lawyers on court premises . "  the police further pointed put that the prescribed measures of crowd dispersal , including the use of tear gas , water cannons and lathi charge to disperse the crowd could not have been used at the court , as it was congested and could have possibly led to a stampede , and also affected the functioning of the courts .  however , police said they held meetings with the bar association , which has assured them of help to maintain order in court .  as for reports of journalists and kanhaiya kumar being thrashed , the police denied it , and said , " the police prevented escalation of violence by closing the gates . "  disclaimer : we respect your thoughts and views ! but we need to be judicious while moderating your comments . all the comments will be moderated by the nie editorial . abstain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks . try to avoid that do not follow these guidelines .