CM talks on tourism for Boriyamal island
http://www.dailypioneer.com/state-editions/cm-talks-on-tourism-for-boriyamal-island.html

State Editions  CM talks on tourism for Boriyamal island  Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan along with his wife visited Boriyamal island during Hanuwantiya Jal-Mahotsav and held discussions with officers of the Tourism Development Corporation on possibilities of tourism development there .  He said that a waterway would be developed between Omkareshwar and Hanuwanitya . The Tourism Development Corporation MD Hari Ranjan Rao , district collector , SP , conservator of forests and officers of forest department were present on the occasion . The Chief Minister directed to pay attention to employment of local people in tourism development works .  Local youths will be imparted training in an ITI near the rural area and provided jobs in tourism works of the corporation at Hanuwantiya .  Along with his wife , the Chief Minister enjoyed ride of hot air balloon at Hanuwantiya . He sought information from tourists about facilities available there . Tourists also shook hands with the Chief Minister and took selfies with him .  The Chief Minister said that such works will be undertaken during next 5 years that will will also be developed at nearby islands to attract tourists . He said that the land under possession of Forest Department will be developed at tourist spots and some unique tourism facility provided there . He said that tourists will be attracted by anchoring an old sea ship in the waters of the island .  The Chief Minister said that there are ample possibilities of Hanuwantiya becoming a most beautiful tourist destination in the world . Massive water body in the form of Narmada backwaters , lush green forests and wildlife are enough to attract tourists .  The Chief Minister said that waterway will be developed from Omkareshwar to Hanuwatiya to Singaji and tourist circuit will be developed to help tourists coming to have Darshan of Jyotirlinga at Omkareshwar and also visit Hanuwantiya and Sant Singaji 's Samadha via waterway .  21 Feb 2016 Ananya Borgohain  Driven by creative vigour and the pursuit of soul searching , actor Adil Hussain traversed through new places to find his calling . Through his perceptive mind and resolute articulation , he takes ANANYA BORGOHAIN through his eclectic journey Unfazed by and in pursuit of finding meaning in chaos , actor Adil Hussain 's journey sprouted from an eclectic ground of culture , art , and politics ...