WC's salute to its gallant soldiers
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chandigarh/WCs-salute-to-its-gallant-soldiers/articleshow/51273645.cms

wc 's salute to its gallant soldiers  the indian army 's western command has decided to name establishments , entry gates and areas inside its cantonments after gallantry awardee soldiers .  tnn mar 6 , 2016 , 01.48 am ist  chandigarh : the indian army 's western command has decided to name establishments , entry gates and areas inside its cantonments after gallantry awardee soldiers .  western command chief lieutenant general k j singh said this during the inaugural function of a triennial reunion of war-decorated soldiers that commenced at manekshaw auditorium , chandimandir cantonment , on saturday .  lt gen singh said it was the bounden duty of the nation to revere soldiers who staked their lives while defending the country . he said the western command had exhibited the reverence by making monuments at almost all its military stations to inspire coming generations . on the occasion , he honoured the bravehearts . for soldiers who had laid down their lives in the line of duty , lt gen singh honoured surviving kin of the soldiers .  the surviving brigadier kuldip singh chandpuri , lt gen g s sihota and brig n s sandhu , while the soldiers ' kin included parents of captain vikram batra and the grandson of havildar abdul hamid , who destroyed seven tanks of the enemy single-handedly during the 1965 india-pakistan war .  war decorated india ( wdi ) , an association of winners of gallantry awards of the indian army , was established 25 years ago to share memories of military life .  more than 100 war-decorated soldiers who braved the wars of 1965 and 1971 , attended the event . on the occasion , brig s s ahluwalia ( retd ) , one of the organizers of the conclave , said of the 1,090 soldiers who were living at the time of award , only about 360 were still alive . " despite being a dwindling lot , these soldiers are the ones who have inspired generations of officers and jawans in the three defence services and millions of our countrymen , " he said .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  most popular  with republican caucus-goers in kanas set to make a choice in this year 's presidential nomination contest , donald trump visited the state and attacked 2012 gop nominee mitt romney , and rivals marco rubio and ted cruz .