DC Debate: Kanhaiya's 'spirit of freedom' speech
http://www.deccanchronicle.com/opinion/op-ed/060316/dc-debate-kanhaiya-s-spirit-of-freedom-speech.html

dc debate : kanhaiya 's ' spirit of freedom ' speech  deccan chronicle .  published mar 6 , 2016 , 1:55 am ist  updated mar 6 , 2016 , 1:55 am ist  mr modi came to power riding piggyback , in part , on a social media wave created by the bjp .  jnusu president kanhaiya kumar with the union vice president shehla rashid ( l ) and rama naga ( r ) who is facing sedition charges , addresses a news conference at the jnu campus in new delhi . ( photo : pti )  struggle for azaadi in india  bipin sebastian  on thursday midnight , amid calls for azaadi reverberating on the campus , jnu had its tryst with kanhaiya kumar , the unlikely rustic youth from bihar who has become the pivot of the opposition to what pm narendra modi represents . never before , probably since the days of independence , has the term azaadi caught the imagination and attention of so many in the country .  mr kumar and his friends have just from the indian nation state , as the bhakts would want others to believe . it also means freedom from injustice and discrimination meted out by the state , especially towards the marginalised sections of society , be it a dalit , a woman , or someone belonging to the lgbtq community .  mr modi and his bhakts have been caught on the wrong foot in unc-harted territory , ever since his government started muzzling the voice of students . from ftii in pune to uoh to jnu , his government has failed to deal with opposition in acceptable ways .  several student pro-tests have rocked autho-ritarian governments in many parts of the world . the first prominent challenge that the communist state of china faced was from students at the tiananmen square , which unfortunately led to mass massacre by the military .  mr modi came to power riding piggyback , in part , on a social media wave created by the bjp . for now , mr kumar and his campus crowd seem to be turning the tables on mr modi .  mr kumar used the allegations made against him and sounded " politically correct " . from the " doctored " video used to frame him , to accusations of being anti-national , to calling the bluff in invoking the image of the selfless jawan to spread malice against student protesters , he tore into the arguments of the rival side . mr kumar 's speech contained the voice of those who do not exactly fall within the boundaries set by the narrow narrative of an ideal nationalist citizen , mou-lded in the image of a north indian upper-caste hindu male . branding someone as anti-national is turning into a manifestation of caste discrimination in a neo-casteist society . the dominant sections of society used it to fervently defend the existing power structures that are very much in their favour . no wonder they easily used it to brand and dismiss rohit vemula and the ambedkarite politics as being anti-national .  uoh and jnu are different issues . still , than-ks to mr kumar and his friends , azaadi has come to embody the voice of the " other " within the indian state we want freedom in india , " said the jnusu president .  speech shows azaadi exists  dr y.l. srinivas  dr b.r. ambedkar 's writings and spee-ches in its volume iii , has an interesting piece titled ' buddha or karl marx ' , in which he ends the presentation with the following words . " ( that ) society has been aiming to lay a new foundation was summarised by the french revolution in three words , ' fraternity , liberty and equality ' . we welcome the rus-sian revolution because it aims to produce equality . equality will be of no value without fraternity or liberty . it seems that the three can coexist only if one follows the way of the buddha . communism can give one but not all . "  kanhaiya kumar 's call for " azaadi within india " after his release from bail thus reflects the yawning gap between rhetoric and reality based on dr ambedkar 's own observations . furthermore , mr kumar 's call for uniting the " blue " of dr ambedkar and the " red " of as an ideology can only go so far . in fact , dr ambedkar felt that humanity wants not only the economic values but also the spiritual values to be retained . the ideology of communism paid no attention to spiritual values . the idea of a nation and especially of india is one of the largest and most enduring spiritual values and the celebration of the event at jnu on february 9 was nothing but an attempt to trample on this idea . thus the call for azaadi from hunger , capitalism and brahmanism , that kan-haiya made after his return from jail , was a well-crafted attempt to obfuscate discussion from the core issue .  as a student union president , mr kumar should have shown zero tolerance to the raising of slogans against india and the attempt to make a hero out of afzal guru and maqbool bhat . instead , he chose to waffle on it . in interviews , he dodged questions on afzal guru and the anti-india slogans , and was elusive when questions were posed on afzal guru . the slogans are an others the right to free speech . when overt attempts are being made to destabilise the indian union , it is the responsibility of every individual and the jnu fraternity to condemn it rather than condone it .  the issues which mr kumar is seeking freedom from are not specific to india . for a nation to fight socio-economic-cultural disparities , a prerequisite is that it has to survive as a nation . we will not be able to fight disparities by lending credence to the arguments being put forth by those indulging in a proxy war against india from within and without . freedom within india exists and mr kumar 's speech is a standing testimony to that . the imperative before us is to free universities from fissiparous tendencies .