Ballard Estate, Mumbaikars' century-old business district
http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/mumbai/ballard-estate-mumbaikars-century-old-business-district/

many tourists routinely throng south mumbai to witness the relics of victorian architecture but ballard estate , the european style early twentieth century business district , is usually not on their list . they miss out on this commercial area on the eastern waterfront that has many treasures including the precinct with its uniform architectural style , especially the buildings on street corners , the cast-iron porches and the central open space after each row of buildings . the area is infamous for turning into a ' ghost town ' after office hours . the mumbai port trust , which owns the estate , has since january initiated a weekend street festival to open the area up for citizens and tourists to explore .  the ' ghost town ' tag to ballard estate has not always been there . the estate was a bustling hub of activity , with a railway station called ballard pier , a passenger berth inside the port and many commercial establishments of big companies , mainly shipping and industries .  under the british rule , in 1914 , with the to create a dock along the seashore .  " to build alexandra dock which is today known as indira dock , a large amount of soil had to be excavated by the then bombay port trust . at that point , the problem before the authorities was on where the large quantity of soil could be dumped . it was then dumped in the low-lying , marshy land which is today known as the ballard estate , " said gautam dey , a senior official at the mumbai port trust . around 22 acres of this reclaimed land , which was a site for dumping the excavated soil , was then flattened and developed into the ballard estate .  it gets its name after the first chairman of the bombay port trust , colonel john archibald ballard . it was the city 's first and the country 's second planned commercial area with land given on lease to companies for varied periods of time , extending up to 99 years .  though the land was given to different companies , uniformity of architecture was ensured , recalls dey also known for his contribution to other significant buildings including the gateway of india and the prince of wales museum , known today as the chhatrapati shivaji vastu sangrahalaya . " willet who developed a whole master plan for every building ensured that there was a uniformity in architecture . each lease covenant laid down rules like how tall a building could be , which kind of stone could be used , where should the signage be placed . this ensured that the area remains the most visually homogenous edwardian neo-classical architecture in the city , " said renowned architect abha narain lambah . the area was declared as a heritage sub-precinct of the fort precinct in 1995 when the heritage regulations were notified in the city .  another significant relic is the war memorial at a street junction close to the indira docks . the memorial with winged lions at its base stands in commemoration of the contribution of the then bombay port trust in the world war i , including its employees who lost their lives in the war .  a brass plaque on the memorial contextualizes the war through stating among other things the 1,87,0000 troops and personnel who embarked and disembarked at the docks during the war .  buildings including the darabshaw house , the grand hotel , mackinnon mackenzie remain prime attractions . the offices of many shipping companies , the headquarters of the mumbai port trust , raymond and the irani eatery , caf ? britannia , continue to remain housed in the estate .  old timers say that with the development of new business areas including nariman point and more recently bandra-kurla complex , many industries shifted when their lease was over . after office hours , the area still continues to be bereft of people , save for some who take shelter in its deserted streets at night . today , a walk into the area on a quiet afternoon during the weekend would make one witness to ongoing cricket matches or film shoots and more recently the mumbai ballard estate festival which is hosted in a few streets on saturdays and sundays .  have a comment or suggestion for once upon a time ? write to mumbai.newsline @expressindia.com @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @