Supriyo fumes as guard asks for ID proof
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Supriyo-fumes-as-guard-asks-for-ID-proof/articleshow/51419213.cms

supriyo fumes as guard asks for id proof  babul supriyo had a tiff with a cisf staffer who asked for the identity proof of the minister of state for urban development when he was entering nirman bhavan which houses the ministry .  tnn mar 16 , 2016 , 05.35 am ist  new delhi : babul supriyo had a tiff with a cisf staffer who asked for the identity proof of the minister of state for urban development when he was entering nirman bhavan which houses the ministry .  supriyo allegedly pulled out the identity card of the security guard and even shouted at him after taking offence for being asked to produce his identity proof . incidentally , it was the first day on duty for the guard at the building . the minister though later refuted allegations and said the guard misbehaved with him even after he showed him his identity card . " what people are alleging is factually incorrect . i never said that i can act against the security personnel , " supriyo told toi . however , eyewitnesses personnel did not know him , he asked for the pass . but the minister felt offended and started shouting at the security personnel . he even said that he can get him dismissed from the job , " said an eyewitness . more than a dozen security personnel and employees posted at nirman bhavan were present when the entire episode unfolded .  another eyewitness said , " there was nothing wrong in asking for identity . the minister got upset and asked the guard for his identity card . he snatched it . this was shocking . the minister should rather have appreciated the job that the security personnel was performing . "  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .