'UAE aviation deal not under SC ambit'
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/UAE-aviation-deal-not-under-SC-ambit/articleshow/51419178.cms

' uae aviation deal not under sc ambit '  the centre on tuesday told the supreme court that it could not judicially examine the air service agreement ( asa ) between india and the uae , an agreement which bjp member subramaniam swamy has claimed conferred undue and unfair concessions to jet-etihad at the cost of national carrier air india .  mar 16 , 2016 , 05.24 am ist  new delhi : the centre on tuesday told the supreme court that it could not judicially examine the air service agreement ( asa ) between india and the uae , an agreement which bjp member subramnian swamy has claimed conferred undue and unfair concessions to jet-etihad at the cost of national carrier air india .  appearing for the centre , additional solicitor general p s narasimha told a bench of chief justice t s thakur and justice u u lalit that the asa was akin to a bilateral treaty and hence beyond the ambit of judicial scrutiny . however , the bench found during the hearing that swamy had challenged the april 24 , the asa on september 3 , 2013 .  appearing for jet airways , senior advocate a m singhvi said the pact had helped ai , jet and indigo increase their passenger capacity but swamy had not made any other airline a party except jet . the bench asked swamy to amend his petition in three weeks to challenge the september 3 pact and include other airlines which would be affected by the outcome of the plea . it also asked the centre to respond to the amended plea in four weeks and posted the matter for further hearing on july 19 .  swamy had sought quashing of the april 24 pact claiming that it gave unfair concessions to etihad airways and jet airways .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .