Indian public has been made 'zombies of cricket', says former sports ...
http://www.ibtimes.co.in/indian-public-has-been-made-zombies-cricket-says-former-sports-minister-673818

Indian public has been made ' zombies of cricket ' , says former sports minister  Cricket fans during the WT20 2016 final between England and West Indies at Eden Gardens , KolkataIANS  Former Sports Minister of India MS Gill has come down heavily on the BCCI and has called the Indian Premier League a ' tamasha ' . Gill , a Congress politician , has also thrashed the Indian cricket board on their decision to host the IPL matches in drought-hit Maharashtra .  " Cricket is no longer a sport and the BCCI has converted it into a serious commercial enterprise , " Gill was quoted as saying by Press Trust of India . " Cricket matches are happening all through 12 months in a year and it is not good for the public and for the children . They ( BCCI ) have made the Indian public zombies of cricket , " the former Chief Election Commissioner of India added .  He suggested that the BCCI could have thought of hosting the IPL matches in states like Haryana , Punjab or Uttar .  " They can hold these IPL matches in states like Haryana , Punjab or Uttar Pradesh where the problem of water scarcity is not that big an issue . In any case , this IPL is a tamasha and it not serving the game of cricket , " Gill , 79 , said . " The Romans gave the world the Gladiators Fight and now the BCCI has given the Indian public this tamasha called the IPL . It is nothing but a purely commercial event meant for money making , " he added .  Meanwhile , India cricket veteran VVS Laxman also commented on the situation and said that the Indian Premier League has played a key role in bringing up talents from across the country and the league has also contributed immensely to the Indian economy .  " This year , because of a bad monsoon , there is a lot of water shortage . Not only for farmers , but throughout the country , there is a lot of water shortage , " Laxman told PTI in another report . " I know everyone . "  " There are a lot of benefits of the IPL . It is a game which not only helps youngsters learn from some of the exceptional talent from India , but also all over the world . It also adds to the economy of the country , " Laxman , also the mentor of IPL side Sunrisers Hyderabad , added .