SBI cuts home loan interest rate to 9.45 pc
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/SBI-cuts-home-loan-interest-rate-to-9-45-pc/articleshow/51732007.cms

sbi cuts home loan interest rate to 9.45 pc  new delhi , apr 7 ( ) state bank of india has lowered its lending rate for home loans to 9.45 per cent and further to 9.4 per cent for women customers following implementation of a new interest rate calculation regime mandated by rbi .  pti apr 7 , 2016 , 09.05 pm ist  new delhi , apr 7 ( ) state bank of india has lowered its lending rate for home loans to 9.45 per cent and further to 9.4 per cent for women customers following implementation of a new interest rate calculation regime mandated by rbi .  the lending rates of other banks may also fall soon with the marginal cost of funds based lending rate ( mclr ) system coming into force with effect from april 1 .  if the banks decide to pass on the latest 0.25 per cent policy rate cut announced by rbi on april 5 , the rates for borrowers may go down further .  sbi in a statement said that it has fixed its is 0.25 percentage point more than its one-year marginal cost of fund-based lending rate of 9.20 per cent .  however , women borrower would get the loan 0.20 per cent above the mclr at 9.40 per cent , it said .  the new rate is applicable from april 1 , it said .  as per the information available on sbi website , the earlier home loan rate 9.5 per cent for women borrowers and 9.55 per cent for others .  similarly , car loan would be available at 0.60 per cent above 1 year mclr . thus , it would be 9.80 per cent , the statement said .  student loans of up to rs 7 lakh would be available at 2 per cent above mclr , currently 11.20 per cent while 1.70 per cent above mclr at 10.90 per cent .  while sbi skill loan will be available 3.90 per cent above mclr at 13.10 per cent . besides , other loans like personal loan , loan against securities etc have also been linked to mclr .  the base rate or the minimum  rbi had asked banks to price fixed-rate loans of up to three years based on their marginal cost of funds from april 1 . all banks have to follow mclr system , a new uniform methodology which will ensure fair interest rates to borrowers as well as to banks . dp bj mr  ( this story has not been edited by timesofindia.com and is auto -- generated from a syndicated feed we subscribe to . )  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil . et now and said that india 's growth makes it an important market for us . speaking on its india business , he added that the business has grown over one billion dollar in india and there is an appetite for more .