The hindi dubbed version of 'The Jungle Book' is a capsule of ...
http://www.ibnlive.com/news/movies/the-hindi-dubbed-version-of-the-jungle-book-is-a-capsule-of-nostalgia-for-the-90s-kids-1227378.html

the hindi dubbed version of ' the jungle book ' is a capsule of nostalgia for the 90 's kids  the era of 90 's is considered golden for many reasons , but for the gen y , 90 's will always remain the decade of mowgli , at least for us indians . yes , that yellow fur wearing , human who lived in the jungle with his awesome friends bagheera , baloo ( bhalu ) , pappu and scary enemy shere khan . the week long wait for half an hour episode meant everything to a 3 year old me .  jon favreau , the director of the recently released live-action ' the jungle book ' , would 've never thought what territory he 's venturing into and what the story meant for all 80 's and 90 's kids in india !  the hindi version of ' the jungle book ' brings everything back on a bigger scale .  with popular hollywood actors giving their voiceovers and a popular , successful director on board , ' the jungle book ' disney india 's decision to include famous bollywood names for the hindi dubbed version made it a huge release in the home market as well !  the authenticity might be in the english version but the hindi dubbed version is and will remain closer to our hearts for reasons listed below :  the language connect  let 's face it , most of us watched the hindi dubbed version before the original disney movie . thus , mowgli always seemed ' one of us ' . a desi boy living with his friends , using pure hindi and urdu words . even the names of the animals were our popular nicknames ! it was one foreign originated series which was based in an indian set up . hence it was more relatable .  trip to nostalgia land  one can feel the excitement the moment ' chaddhi pehen ke ' plays on tv or radio these days . it brings back a flood of memories and take us back to those lovely sunday afternoon when homework used to be naming the animals or writing 5 colors . tv grandad on one full trolley immediately come into our minds . ' the jungle book ' brings all that back and this time in 3d , for real !  familiar settings and recall factor  yes , ' water truce ' is good but ' jal shanti sandhi ' sounds like our very own doordarshan ! rudyard kipling wrote his book after getting inspired from an indian jungle . the name of every character is indian . there is indian-ness all over ' the jungle book ' . jon favreau kept the originality intact by choosing an indian for the part of mowgli . all this combined with the voices of om puri , shefali shah , nana patekar and priyanka chopra , gives us the much loved old wine in an even more wonderful new bottle !  our childhood legacy  for many people , including myself , ' mowgli ' is probably the first tv show memory alongside shaktimaan . now is the time to show your legacy to the new generation of kids . the smart phone kids deserve to know all the hysteria around the refuse to watch the ' tacky ' hindi version , but ' mowgli ' was , is and will remain the first friend , gen y is so proud of !  the hindi version of ' the jungle book ' brings everything back on a bigger scale . the happiness we felt with our friend ' mowgli ' , the desperation we experienced when an episode was missed , the first song we learnt and recognised and the book our school teachers read to us often !  thank you jon favreau and disney india for bringing our childhood back . you have no idea what scale of happiness you 've brought in our lives !