Chit-fund co dupes Bhilai residents to the tune of crores
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/raipur/Chit-fund-co-dupes-Bhilai-residents-to-the-tune-of-crores/articleshow/51753595.cms

Chit-fund co dupes Bhilai residents to the tune of crores  A case of fraud has been registered against Togo Swasthya Evam Jan Kalyan Sansthan ( TSEJKS ) , an Uttar Pradesh based chit-fund company accused of duping its customers in Chhattisgarh to the tune of over Rs 100 crore .  TNN Apr 9 , 2016 , 12.45 PM IST  Bhilai : A case of fraud has been registered against Togo Swasthya Evam Jan Kalyan Sansthan ( TSEJKS ) , an Uttar Pradesh based chit-fund company accused of duping its customers in Chhattisgarh to the tune of over Rs 100 crore .  The incident has exposed police laxity in detecting fraudulent chit fund companies still operating in state . Based on numerous complaints by depositors , police have registered a case against six officials .  Police said that the company had defaulted on interest payments to investors . Six officials , including TSEJKS director Prithvi Singh Sethi , general managers Ajay Singh , AK Mandal , regional head Prashant Majumdar , area manager Prashant Majumdar and branch manager PK Das have been named A case under Sections 409 , 420 and 34 of IPC has been registered in this connection , and we are further looking into the matter , " said Chhaoni station in charge Rakesh Joshi .  The company , through its various investment schemes , like MIS and other modes , lured petitioners to make investments in it and other sister companies . Investment to the tune of around Rs 150 crore has been done in this company . Allegedly , the company has fled and its local office is locked .  The matter came to light last week , after 44 people belonging to Bhilai , Durg and Rajnandgaon , who had invested in TSEJKS , filed a petition in high court urging seizure of properties and assets of company officials . Earlier , the petitioners and other depositors had reported the matter to district police authorities but no action was taken .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .