Incestuous relationship between cousins leads to murder of a youth ...
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/agra/Incestuous-relationship-between-cousins-leads-to-murder-of-a-youth-in-Mainpuri/articleshow/51828027.cms

Incestuous relationship between cousins leads to murder of a youth in Mainpuri  AGRA : An alleged incestuous relationship between two cousins from Dalit families led to the murder of a 22-year old youth in Mainpuri district late night on Wednesday .  According to police the youth , Sanjay , a student of local ITI college , was having an affair with his maternal cousin sister and when the girl 's parent found out about their relationship , they were infuriated and decided to kill him . Sanjay was killed in a literal execution style , with the three accused , all related to the girl , putting a country made pistol on the right side of his head and shooting him at point blank range .  The police have arrested the girl 's father , Ramratan ( 42 ) , her brother , Shailender ( 23 ) , and another relative , Shri Krishan ( 38 ) on charges of murder . Police officials said the murder took place on Wednesday night in Village Ghiror at about 8 PM . After killing the youth by burying under a tree in the village itself .  Police said the girl was to get married soon and her family decided to kill the boy , as they feared that he might try to create problems , bringing disgrace to both the families .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on FacebookShare on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .