Indian IT infrastructure to reach $1.9 bn in 2016: Gartner
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Indian-IT-infrastructure-to-reach-1-9-bn-in-2016-Gartner/articleshow/52097387.cms

indian it infrastructure to reach $1.9 bn in 2016 : gartner  mumbai , may 3 ( ians ) continuing it infrastructure optimisation will propel indian it infrastructure market to reach $1.9 billion in 2016 , said leading global it research and advisory company gartner .  ians may 3 , 2016 , 10.15 pm ist  mumbai , may 3 ( ians ) continuing it infrastructure optimisation will propel indian it infrastructure market to reach $1.9 billion in 2016 , said leading global it research and advisory company gartner .  " indian enterprises will continue to focus on optimising their infrastructure and operations budgets in 2016 , " gartner research director naveen mishra said at the gartner infrastructure , operations and data center summit currently underway here , according to a company release .  according to mishra , optimisation is primarily driven by an objective to create next generation data centre architecture that can support the ever-increasing challenges of digital business .  " with the emergence of bimodal it , there are a lot of investments made in mode one , and is said mishra about it infrastructure which encompasses servers , storage and enterprise networking equipment .  mode one workloads investments include areas such as cloud , software defined storage and network coupled with integrated systems .  " public cloud is increasingly becoming relevant for data centre managers and it leaders in india . though it is in the early days , devops is another area which is gaining traction in india within it operations teams , " said the gartner statement .  with an expected revenue of $848 million in 2016 , enterprise networking is the biggest segment within indian it infrastructure market , it said , adding servers follow with an expected revenue of $834 million while storage revenue projection is set to fall from $275 million in 2015 to $253 million in the current year .  gartner predicts indian it infrastructure to reach a value of $2.07 billion in 2018 and $2.1 billion by 2020 .  the two-day summit , which began on tuesday , is deliberating on the key trends of indian it infrastructure market .  --ians  sth/vd  ( this story generated from a syndicated feed we subscribe to . )  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on facebookshare on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .  after ordering that the pellets be produced for observation , the rajasthan high court directed the trial court to produce the knife which was allegedly used by bollywood actor salman khan for slitting the throat and peeling off the skin of poached chinkara.