SSLC exam: Inspiring stories of toppers
http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/karnataka/sslc-exam-inspiring-stories-of-toppers/article8612082.ece

SSLC exam : Inspiring stories of toppers  Santosh Madiwal of Kamathana village , who scored 80 per cent in the SSLC examination , irons clothes for a living .  These students show there is no substitute to hard work  A few students from poor socio economic backgrounds in Bidar district have performed exceedingly well in SSLC examinations , the results of which were announced on Monday .  The story of Santosh Madiwal of Kamathana village is inspiring . The student of the Government Kannada Medium School in Kamathana has scored 80 per cent marks . He irons clothes for a living . His mother Sharadamma , who works as a domestic help , raised him after his father died when he was in the first standard .  Santosh said he learnt to iron clothes from a " master " in Bidar when he was in the seventh standard . He continued to study after setting up his own ironing shop in Bidar around three years ago .  Explaining his routine , he said he takes the bus to Bidar every morning school and returns to work late in the afternoon . He works for another four hours before heading home . " I want to study commerce and become a banker , " Santosh said .  Similar is the story of Vijayalakshmi Solankar . Her father died when she was young and her mother , a farm hand , struggled to send her two children to school . After completing fifth standard in a private school at Aliambar village , she cleared the entrance examination to the Morarji Desai Residential School . She has scored 95 per cent marks in SSLC and wants to become a doctor .  Balaji Babu Reddy from a Telugu family in Telangana has scored 125 marks in Kannada . His mother , a farm labourer , admitted him to the Sri Channabasaveshwar Gurukul at Karadyal village in Bhalki taluk , after his father died a few years ago . He has scored 621 marks out of 625 .  Beerappa Shivarj Torne 's is among the highest scorers in the state . He got 622 out of 625 marks in SSLC . His father is He joined the Karadyal Gurukul in fifth standard . He has three sisters . He wants to become a doctor and work in a charitable hospital .  Vaishnodevi Mallikarjun Biradar 's from Kadlabad walked around six km every day to attend the Gurukul in Karadyal . Always topping her class , she has scored 622 out of 625 . Inspired by former President Abdul Kalam , she wants to be an aerospace scientist .  Another student of the Gurukul to score 622 marks is Pramod Jaiwant Kulkarni , a student from a Marathi speaking family , who has scored 125 in Kannada . He comes from Chikkalchanda , a village on the border between Karnataka and Maharashtra . He joined the school five years ago when bus services started between his village and Bhalki . He wants to be a doctor too .  1 . Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team . 2 . Comments that are abusive , personal , incendiary or irrelevant can not be published . 3 . Please write complete sentences . Do not type comments in all capital letters , text . ( example : u can not substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . We may remove hyperlinks within comments . 5 . Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name , to avoid rejection .