The 'why' of elder woes, in a book
http://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/chennai/The-why-of-elder-woes-in-a-book/2016/05/17/article3437809.ece

the ' why ' of elder woes , in a book  chennai : india is changing -- jobs , family structures , longevity and globalisation are contributing to the fluctuations in the stereotypical image of elders in our society .  " studies show that around 32% of elders in india are abused , " says dr v s natarajan , a geriatric specialist and padmashree awardee.here the question arises as to how this problem can be tackled with a sense of mutual cooperation between the elders and youngsters and not resort to abuse .  dr natarajan 's latest book generation gap examines the social problems faced by the elderly today , with case studies and solutions to support these problems .  " in the past 20 years , health problems were more common among the elderly . today , there is more awareness about health , but social problems are becoming more strong with the disintegration of the joint family , " he says .  money is often the biggest factor for most forms of abuse , says the specialist , who encountered as a house call doctor .  once he was called to visit an elderly patient in anna nagar , who lived with his son and daughter-in-law . " when i went there , he was lying in a small room alone . on seeing me , the old man immediately spat at me . before i could react , his son started beating him up violently , " he recalls .  after sending the son out , the old man apologised saying his mental state was not good because of being abused . " the man told me the son 's only reason for calling me was to check how long he would live and when he will inherit my property , not to help me get better , " he says .  apart from the rare physical abuse cases , the other two forms -- psychological and verbal are far more common , says natarajan , who feels that money has taken a toll on everything .  " with the it boom , people are earning more and they want to spend more and enjoy money on elder care . also , real estate value has become so high , that many elders are pressurised into selling their properties , and are abused if they do not do it , " he says .  the solutions are not easy , and youngsters too can not be blamed all the time , he adds . " caregivers also have problems , especially if someone is living till 90 , it does become difficult . but it needs to be handled sensitively . "  he urges that people should take care of their health better in younger days while they simultaneously save money for their old age to avoid their dependency on their children.the book , co-authored by hema narasimhan , will be released today at 6 pm at vani mahal , t nagar .  disclaimer : we respect your thoughts and views ! but we need to be judicious while moderating your comments . all the comments will be moderated by the nie editorial . abstain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines .