Undisputed champions: The story of India's rise as a hockey giant in ...
http://scroll.in/article/808487/undisputed-champions-the-story-of-indias-rise-as-a-hockey-giant-in-the-pre-independence-era

India sent its first hockey contingent to the Olympics in 1928 , but that was only the final step of a historic journey .  When the topic of Indian hockey comes up , talk veers inevitably towards the golden age . The period between 1928 and 1956 , when Indian hockey conquered all that came in front of it , when it won six consecutive gold medals in the Olympics and basked in the adulation of the world . But the story behind how Indian hockey as an entity first came into existence is no less fascinating and not without its share of red herrings .  It is widely believed that India 's journey in hockey can be traced back to 1885 when the Calcutta Hockey Club came into existence . But Nikhilesh Bhattacharya , a PhD fellow who has researched the origins of Indian hockey at the Olympic Studies Centre in Switzerland and The Hockey Museum in the United Kingdom , is not so sure . According to him , there is no conclusive evidence to establish the year .  Polo as hockey silver tankard that was presented to Captain Joseph Ford Sherer of the 49th Bengal Native Infantry by the Calcutta Hockey Club in February 1864 . The date is significant , because that would mean the existence of the sport in India before the foundation of the Teddington Hockey Club in England in 1871 , which formulated the rules of modern field hockey .  But before one gets too excited , it is important to hear Bhattacharya 's clarification : what was mentioned as hockey at that time was not field hockey as we know it , but polo .  " It is important to remember that in India in the 19th century , hockey often referred to a game played on horseback . Hence , it would be naive to assume that all the so-called ' hockey ' clubs at that time played the game as we know it now . We do have proof of a field hockey tournament called the Beighton Cup coming into existence in Calcutta in 1895 , followed by the Aga Khan Cup in Bombay in 1896 . The launch of tournaments would suggest , at least , but for how many years , it is difficult to say . "  An archival photo of polo being played in Manipur . Image credit : Wikimedia Commons  The Beighton Cup is the oldest running hockey tournament in the world . Organised each year faithfully even now by the Bengal Hockey Association , it is a tournament which shaped the growth of hockey in the country , giving it context and adding to the popularity of it . Hockey legend Dhyan Chand said it was his life 's ambition to win the Beighton Cup , which he did with his team , the Jhansi Heroes , in 1933 .  The Jhansi Heroes , with Dhyan Chand front row , third from right . Taken from Dhyan Chand 's autobiography , ' Goal ! ' published by Sport and Pastime from Madras in 1952 .  Humble beginnings  The year 1908 saw the foundation of the Bengal Hockey Association , an indicator that hockey was spreading widely in the province , with enough clubs to warrant the formation of a governing body . But was the publication of a book titled Hockey in India and How to Play It with Rules of the Game and Explanatory Notes , written by an Englishman named Walter Troup . In the book , Troup mentions the names of various clubs playing hockey around northern and western India , including the Bombay Gymkhana Club , United Provinces Police Team , the Naini Tal Volunteers and the Jhansi Railway Institute Hockey Team . In fact , a look at the winners of the first few Beighton Cups also disproves the predominant notion that hockey was strictly a sport restricted to the army -- teams from civilian clubs , educational institutions , the police , railways and other departments were also actively involved .  The other interesting fact about Troup 's book is that there is a small footnote on the title page which says it is also available in Hindi and Urdu . That is quite significant , according to Bhattacharya . " I have not seen extant copies of the book in those languages , but the very fact that Troup was looking at readership in the regional people beyond the English-speaking classes . "  The title page of Walter Troup 's book .  There was also a typically English rant about the quality of refereeing in India , which in Troup 's view was abysmal .  Before entering into details of the game of Hockey , I should like to touch on one regrettable feature of the game as played in India . I refer to those reprehensible methods of play , against which Umpires as a body do not set their faces as they should . As a result of foul play and incompetent umpiring i have myself been on the injured list for months at a time . To give an instance . I was playing for the Bombay Gymkhana in 1909 in the Aga Khan Hockey Tournament , when on no less than four occasions I was badly fouled by the same player . It is true that he was warned and finally turned off the ground , but that was poor compensation for me , or to my side . I fell on the wrong side of my wrist , and . I was unable to play for 8 months . I would add that the offender , though known as the foulest of foul players , is still allowed on the ground . No improvement can be hoped for , till a recognised " Indian Hockey Association " is formed , and definite Rules are framed dealing with such offenders who disgrace the game .  ( Hockey in India , ii )  The story then moves to 1919 when the Indian Olympic Association was founded and , with the help of the philanthropic Dorabji Tata , the first Indian contingent was sent to the 1920 in Antwerp . Since then , India 's first foray into the Olympics has been seen as a nationalistic endeavour but Bhattacharya begs to disagree .  The six Indians selected to represent India at the 1920 Antwerp Games by the Indian Olympic Association , a precursor to the organisation with the same name that still runs Olympic sport in India . It seems HD Kaikadi did not appear in any event .  " There were various people involved in sending an Indian the Governor of Bombay George Lloyd , the Secretary of State for India , Edwin Montagu , and even the Secretary of the British Olympic Association , the Reverend Robert Stuart de Courcy Laffan , " noted Bhattacharya . " In fact , the British government provided full support to the endeavour as they looked at it as way to channelise nationalistic sentiments . "  Glory on the world stage  It was in 1928 that an Indian hockey team first entered the Olympics , but India had conquered the world even before that . In 1926 , an Indian Army team , containing Dhyan Chand , toured New Zealand and won almost every game they played on that tour . The eyes of the hockey world were fixed on them -- for all talk and purpose , India had left its imprint on the hockey world .  Coverage of the Indian Army hockey team 's 1926 tour from Hockey World .  There is one last interesting footnote to this story . India were the undisputed champions of men 's hockey , conquering all that came before them 1928 , 1932 and 1936 . The 1936 triumph has gone down in folkore where one of the finest Indian teams , led by Dhyan Chand in his prime , humbled mighty Germany 8-1 in the final .  Play  No team from Great Britain or its constituent parts ( i.e. England , Scotland , Ireland and Wales ) took part in the Olympics between 1928 and 1936 . It remained one of Chand 's biggest regrets in life that he did not get the opportunity to beat the rulers at their own game .  But there was a sense of poetic justice to it as well . When India reached the final of the 1948 Olympics hockey tournament , their opponents were Great Britain , making a comeback to the world event . And revenge was sweet , one year after they achieved independence from their former colonial rulers , India thrashed Britain 4-0.