Lankan Army ends search for landslide victims, focused on ...
http://www.freepressjournal.in/lankan-army-ends-search-for-landslide-victims-focused-on-relocation-and-relief/854296

Lankan Army ends search for landslide victims , focused on relocation and relief  Colombo ( Sri Lanka ) : The Sri Lanka Army on Saturday called off search operations in landslide hit areas of the country , and said that it was now focused on relocation of survivors and providing relief to those affected by the natural calamity .  The Colombo Page web site quoted him , as saying that 141 persons have been declared as missing in the Aranayake region so far . A final figure would be announced later in the day , he added .  Meanwhile , Army troops engaged in relief operations in Colombo suburbs have managed to rescue , evacuate and relocate an estimated total of 46,210 affected people , using about 56 boats of the Army and civilians till Saturday morning .  Cooked meals to people displaced by the floods in Colombo suburbs have also distributed by the troops .  Army Commander Lieutenant General Chrishanthe de Silva , inquiring into the needs of the Senior Officers who are engaged in emergency operations , stressed the need diseases in the aftermath of the floods .  He also urged his officers to to be in constant touch with medical authorities as well .  Meanwhile , assistance from other countries continue to pour in .  The United States Government has offered a three-year program to provide safe-drinking water to the people to flooding and droughts , apart from providing assistance to meet the urgent needs of victims of the ongoing landslides and flooding in various parts of Sri Lanka .  The United States Government has provided Rs. 7.2 million ( US$ 50,000 ) for immediate disaster assistance for non-food items such as blankets , mattresses , clothing and hygiene kits .  The Nepal government in a statement expressed its deep sorrow on the loss of human lives and property in Sri Lanka , report Colombo page . As a token of its solidarity , Nepal extended an assistance of US dollars 100,000 for the relief operations in the disasters-hit zones .