Bitter slugfest ahead of UP polls over Kairana exodus
http://www.newindianexpress.com/nation/Bitter-slugfest-ahead-of-UP-polls-over-Kairana-exodus/2016/06/13/article3480753.ece

ALLAHABAD : The Uttar Pradesh elections may still be eight months away , but the bitter slugfest have begun . Two recent incidents of exodus of Hindu families from Kairana following rising crime graph , violence in Mathura are likely to escalate in the coming days . BJP chief Amit Shah referred to both the incidents in his speech to attack Akhilesh Yadav government .  BJP also stopped short of making any announcement for the UP polls says Amit Shah would take decision in coming days . Replying to Express question if BJP has decided on its election management for the poll bound states like Uttar Pradesh , Goa , Punjab , Himachal and Uttarakhand , senior leader and finance minister Arun Jaitley said party chief would take a call on it in the coming days .  " We already state presidents , state incharges who are doing the work . Party chief may even appoint election incharge in addition to that . It is his prerogative , " Jaitley said laying to rest any questions regarding CM face .  Apart from Shah two of Mathura and Kairana as serious . As Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav attacked BJP for spreading lies on the incidents , Jaitley challenged Yadav for making the next elections " as referendum on law and order in the state . " He was addressing a press conference here .  BJP has even set up team which would travel to Kairana to investigate the matter . The seven-member committee consist of four MPs and three leaders from Uttar Pradesh .  Transport Minister and former party chief Nitin Gadkari said the Kairana incident was " not good " for democracy , and promised " proper action " after probe by a party team into the " very sensitive matter " .  Modi too in his speech had spoken against the spectre of communalism in order to achieve development in the state .  Disclaimer : We respect your thoughts and views ! But we need to be judicious while moderating your comments . All the comments will be moderated by the NIE editorial . Abstain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do hyperlinks inside the comment . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines .