Essar to develop 8 tcf of shale gas reserves
http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/essar-to-develop-8-tcf-of-shale-gas-reserves/article8756760.ece

essar to develop 8 tcf of shale gas reserves  essar currently produces one million scmd from its coal bed methane block in raniganj  essar group plans to develop its eight trillion cubic feet ( tcf ) of shale gas reserves at its raniganj ( east ) block in west bengal after it gets more clarity on the government 's hydrocarbon exploration licensing policy ( help ) .  " we have informed the government about the in-place shale gas resources of around 8 tcf underneath the cbm play in the raniganj ( east ) block , at least 3 tcf of which can be recoverable , " manish maheshwari , ceo-e&amp;p , essar said . " we will develop the shale gas once we get clarity from the government on pricing and other guidelines under help . " essar currently produces one million scmd ( standard cubic metres per day ) from its coal bed methane ( cbm ) block in raniganj , making it the country 's largest unconventional gas player .  " shale gas got covered under the march 2016 help policy both conventional and unconventional under the same acreages . we are looking forward to those guidelines , " mr. maheshwari said when asked about investments in developing shale gas to tap 8 tcf of gas .  " we have so far invested over rs.3,300 crore in developing our cbm block and will invest another rs.500 crore to achieve the targeted plateau production of 3 scmd from the block . "  a preliminary assessment of original in-place shale gas resources of around 8 tcf underneath the cbm play in the raniganj ( east ) block was undertaken with the support of ustda ( us trade &amp; development agency ) , by an independent us firm that has expertise in shale .  essar , with an estimated 1.09 tcf of cbm gas , as estimated by netherland sewell &amp; associates , inc . ( nsai ) , now sells gas to the industrial consumers in durgapur at a price of $3.43 per mmbtu , according to government 's gas pricing policy of october 2014 .  1 . comments will be moderated by the hindu editorial team . 2 . can not be published . 3 . please write complete sentences . do not type comments in all capital letters , or in all lower case letters , or using abbreviated text . ( example : u can not substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . we may remove hyperlinks within comments . 5 . please use a genuine email id and provide your name , to avoid rejection .  get news delivered to your email  please enter a valid email address .  kindly confirm the newsletter subscription by clicking the link that your have received by email