FSSAI finalises list of 11000 food additives
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/fssai-finalises-list-of-11000-food-additives/article8756698.ece

FSSAI finalises list of 11,000 food additives  The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India ( FSSAI ) , which was in the process of harmonising Indian food standards with the international CODEX standards , has now finalised a list of 11,000 permissible food additives .  Industry players believe this will ease the way for new product launches in the country , which is a longstanding grievance of the industry . In a statement , the food regulator said , " With this , the FSSAI has achieved a major land mark in setting of the standards for various foods in the country . "  Industry players believe this will help strengthen the position of India as a global hub for food processing industry and help move the industry to ingredient-based regime .  In addition , the FSSAI said that it removed potassium bromate , which is used in bread and bakery products and cyclamates , which is used in jams , jellies , marmalades , dairy-based drinks and confectionary , from the list of permissible additives . The bread manufacturers association had .  The draft of these standards was released for public consultation in October last year . About 8,000 food additives were operationalised in December , and now it has been updated to standards for 11,000 food additives .  " The FSSAI has convened a meeting of the Scientific Committee ... to discuss other issues which have been received with respect to additives after these were finalised . The committee will also discuss the issue of use of potassium iodate in the food in the country , " the statement added .  Get more of your favourite news delivered to your inbox  1 . Comments will be moderated by The Hindu Business Line editorial team . 2 . Comments that are abusive , personal , incendiary or irrelevant can not be published . 3 . Please write complete sentences . Do not type comments in all capital letters , or in all lower case letters , or using abbreviated text . ( example : u can not substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . use a genuine email ID and provide your name , to avoid rejection .