Fishing harbour stage III likely to be completed by next monsoon
http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishing-harbour-stage-iii-likely-to-be-completed-by-next-monsoon/article8777830.ece

? today 's paper ? karnataka  fishing harbour stage iii likely to be completed by next monsoon  new facility:stage iii was conceived after finding that the existing facilities at stage i and stage ii were inadequate to the growing number of fishing vessels even as they lacked basic infrastructure . -- file photo : h.s. manjunath  national green tribunal disposes of petitions challenging the project  with the national green tribunal ( ngt ) disposing of applications challenging the environment clearance accorded to mangaluru fishing harbour stage iii , the department of fisheries is hopeful of completing the project before the onset of next monsoon . it should have been completed by 2015 .  the rs. 57.6-crore project ( initial estimation in 2010 ) ran into rough weather after hoige bazar residents octavia albuquerque and six others approached the karnataka high court in 2012 challenging the environment clearance given to the project , particularly for the improvement of the felix creek closer to the albuquerque tile factory . the matter was transferred to ngt in 2013 .  inadequate facilities  stage iii i ( 1984 ) and stage ii ( 2003 ) were inadequate to the growing number of fishing vessels even as they lacked basic infrastructure like toilets , rest rooms , canteens etc .  stage iii was planned on about 1.3 lakh sq mts of land to the south of existing harbour ( towards hoige bazar ) as well as in bengre ( for idle berthing and repair of vessels ) . it involved dredging , levelling of land , repairs to existing wharf , developing traffic area , setting up of fish auction centre , gear shed for fishermen , net mending shed , rest house , boat repair shop , restaurant , installation of radio communication tower , shelters for the security personnel , electricity and water supply system , rcc box bridges , and rainwater harvesting system .  funding constraint  director of fisheries veerappa gowda said that the project was undertaken on 75:25 funding by central and state governments and so far rs. 42 crore have been spent .  though the central government has released about rs. 11 crore so far , the state shortly , he told the hindu . the government would also persuade the centre to share 75 per cent of the revised estimated cost ( rs. 82.5 crore ) as against the original estimated cost .  executive engineer of public works department ( ports and fisheries division ) , udupi , t.s . rathod said about 70 per cent of the work on stage iii is already complete .  except for portions of work involving construction of rcc slab for the bridge connecting stage ii and iii , widening and deepening of the felix creek , construction of three rcc sloping and a giving finishing touch to a few buildings on bengre-side , the work is almost complete , he said . if the funds are released on time , the project should be in place by may next , mr. rathod hoped .