Bridging the gap
http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/bridging-the-gap/article8776469.ece

? Today 's Paper ? EDUCATION PLUS  Bridging the gap  Alarming indeedA study shows a drop in the percentage of employability of engineers across different states for different sectors  Is employability proportionate to the number of engineering graduates that we produce every year ?  India is a diverse country and technical education in India has scaled over the last decade boasting of 1000s of engineering colleges spread across the length and breadth of the country producing over half a million engineering graduates annually .  In a recent study where in more than 12,000 engineers were tested for the employability by AMCAT , AMCAT being the leading measure of employability is able to accurately predict the employability of engineers in various technical roles including IT services , IT products , KPOs , BPOs , technical support , etc .  The study shows the drop in percentage of employability of engineers across different states for different sectors . This is alarming indeed !  Today , even though there are a number of engineering colleges , not enough thrust is given to the the colleges in the country have very high cut off marks/ percentage thus denying the other students the opportunity to pursue their professional education in the best of institutions . The other students who join the not-so-famous colleges have to put in a lot of effort . Unfortunately , the emphasis today in engineering colleges should be on real life experiences .  In most of the engineering institutions the course curriculum is , by and large , theoretical in nature and students are not made aware of the applications of the theories in industry . The programmes and their course content reflect lack of interaction among academic institutions and industries .  The Institutions and the industries have to make a concerted effort to impart knowledge delivery than just content delivery . It is a great challenge to motivate and attract students to serious learning . Moreover , the evaluation system has not been made robust enough to find out the knowledge level of the students . The philosophy of the semester system and the continuous evaluation process are not being understood by the students and also by the faculty methods and attracting well qualified teachers , enhanced industry interactions , emphasis on practical aspects of the subjects are only a few steps that could be initiated by individual institutions . The main challenge is to create an environment and education system that promote and ensure learning . The process is quite challenging , but not impossible to achieve with honest effort .