Key Stocks of the Day: Etablissements Delhaize Freres et Cie Le ...
http://news4j.com/key-stocks-of-the-day-etablissements-delhaize-freres-et-cie-le-lion-nysedeg-32/

as it reflects the theoretical cost of buying the company 's shares , the market cap of etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion ( nyse:deg ) is currently rolling at 11305.46 , making it one of the key stocks in today 's market . hence , the existing market cap indicates a preferable measure in comprehending the size of the company rather than its worth .  etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion 's p/e ratio is measuring at 22.29 with a forward p/e of 6.56 . the powerful forward p/e ratio allows investors a quick snapshot of the organization 's finances without getting involved in the complicated details of the accounting report .  the peg for etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion is gauging a 1.35 , signposting the future growth of the company 's earnings . the existing peg value acts as a measure that takes into account its future growth where investors are able to scale the company 's high-growth stock as undervalued .  as of now , etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion has a p/s value is valued at 6.76 , allowing investors to have a useful look at the company 's value in contrast to the p/e ratio . the current p/c value outlines the company 's ability to generate cash relative to its stock price rather than what it records on earnings relative to its stock price .  the dividend for the corporation to company shareholders is rolling at 1.90% with a payout ratio of 11.70% . the current value of the dividend depicts the significance to the relationship between company and its investors . with many preferring that etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion reinvest its earnings back into its trade to fuel future growth , a lot acknowledges a generous cash dividend payment . for the income oriented investors , the existing payout ratio will be observed closely , providing a valuable insight into etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion 's dividend policy .  the eps of etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion is strolling at 1.18 , measuring its eps growth this year at 92.50% . as a result , the company has an eps growth of the past five years is valued at 6.81% , leading it to an eps value of 16.50% for the next five years . company'ssales growth for the past five years is valued at 3.20% , leading it to the present-day share price of 26.74 . it has a change in price of 1.83% and a target price of 32.61 .  etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion has a roa of 3.60% , measuring the amount of profit the company earns on the value of its shares . the value of its return on investment ( roi ) is 6.40% , measuring the gain/loss on its investment relative to the amount of money invested . with its flexible approach , investors can easily identify the profitability and the efficiency of the company -- bearing in mind the downsides of the roi calculation which can be manipulated .  etablissements delhaize freres et cie le lion holds a quick ratio of 0.8 with a current ratio of 1.2 . the existing figure on the company 's quick ratio portrays its ability to meet its short-term financial liabilities , and the value dealing with its current liabilities via its current assets .  the performance for the week is valued at 0.04% , resulting in a performance for the month at -2.12% . therefore , the stated figures displays a quarterly performance of 2.80% and an annual performance of 27.46% .  disclaimer : outlined statistics and information communicated in the above editorial are merely a work of the authors . they do not ponder or echo the certified policy or position of any business stakeholders , financial specialists , or economic analysts . specimens laid down on the editorial above are only cases with information collected from various sources . the authority will not be liable for anyone who makes stock portfolio or financial decisions as per the editorial , which is based only on limited and open source information . conclusions from the analysis of the editorial shall not depict the position of any analysts or financial professionals .