Key Stocks of the Day: Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC)
http://news4j.com/key-stocks-of-the-day-vulcan-materials-company-nysevmc-35/

key stocks of the day : vulcan materials company ( nyse:vmc )  as it reflects the theoretical cost of buying the company 's shares , the market cap of vulcan materials company ( nyse:vmc ) is currently rolling at 16030.75 , making it one of the key stocks in today 's market . hence , the existing market cap indicates a preferable measure in comprehending the size of the company rather than its worth .  vulcan materials company 's p/e ratio is measuring at 56.16 with a forward p/e of 25.45 . the powerful forward p/e ratio allows investors a quick snapshot of the organization 's finances without getting involved in the complicated details of the accounting report .  the peg for vulcan materials company is gauging a 2.57 , signposting the future growth of the company 's earnings . the existing peg value acts as a measure that takes into account its future growth where investors are able to scale the company 's high-growth stock as undervalued .  as of now , vulcan materials company has a p/s value of 4.52 , 83.54 , allowing investors to have a useful look at the company 's value in contrast to the p/e ratio . the current p/c value outlines the company 's ability to generate cash relative to its stock price rather than what it records on earnings relative to its stock price .  the dividend for the corporation to company shareholders is rolling at 0.66% with a payout ratio of 23.90% . the current value of the dividend depicts the significance to the relationship between company and its investors . with many preferring that vulcan materials company reinvest its earnings back into its trade to fuel future growth , a lot acknowledges a generous cash dividend payment . for the income oriented investors , the existing payout ratio will be observed closely , providing a valuable insight into vulcan materials company 's dividend policy .  the eps of vulcan materials company is strolling at 2.14 , measuring its eps growth this year at 10.70% . as a result , the company has an eps growth of 34.77% for the approaching year . company 's eps for the past five years is of 21.85% for the next five years . company'ssales growth for the past five years is valued at 6.00% , leading it to the present-day share price of 120.47 . it has a change in price of 0.09% and a target price of 126.31 .  vulcan materials company has a roa of 3.40% , measuring the amount of profit the company earns on the value of its shares . the value of its return on investment ( roi ) is 7.10% , measuring the gain/loss on its investment relative to the amount of money invested . with its flexible approach , investors can easily identify the profitability and the efficiency of the company -- bearing in mind the downsides of the roi calculation which can be manipulated .  vulcan materials company holds a quick ratio of 1.9 with a current ratio of 2.8 . the existing figure on the company 's quick ratio portrays its ability to meet its short-term financial liabilities , and the value on the current ratio represents the company 's proficiency in dealing with its current liabilities via its current assets .  the performance a performance for the month at 2.85% . therefore , the stated figures displays a quarterly performance of 12.46% and an annual performance of 41.90% .  disclaimer : outlined statistics and information communicated in the above editorial are merely a work of the authors . they do not ponder or echo the certified policy or position of any business stakeholders , financial specialists , or economic analysts . specimens laid down on the editorial above are only cases with information collected from various sources . the authority will not be liable for anyone who makes stock portfolio or financial decisions as per the editorial , which is based only on limited and open source information . conclusions from the analysis of the editorial shall not depict the position of any analysts or financial professionals .