Govt bets on reforms, normal monsoon to double mining output
http://www.livemint.com/Home-Page/P6F0W6lFLan7OruZIYX9BI/Govt-bets-on-reforms-normal-monsoon-to-double-mining-output.html

govt bets on reforms , normal monsoon to double mining output  raipur ( chhattisgarh ) : the government on monday announced rules for exploration of atomic minerals and introduced a system of green rating of individual mines as part of reforms meant to bring in more competition in the mining sector and to raise the share of mineral production in national income from 2.4% now to 6% over the next few years .  finance minister arun jaitley said at the national conclave on mines and minerals in raipur that with a normal monsoon , economic growth will pick up and boost mineral consumption across industries . the minister said that natural resource-based industries the world over are facing a challenge due to depressed prices , but that economic cycles do not take too long to change . recent reforms in the licensing regime of other natural resources -- coal , crude oil and natural gas -- will also benefit the economy , he said .  " economic growth rate of 7.6% ( for 2016-17 ) was projected when we had two years of below growth picks up further , mineral use will also get positively impacted , " said jaitley , adding that fears about falling markets and currency depreciation in the wake of britain 's exit from the euro zone did not last long . monsoon , which arrived in india a week later than usual , on 8 june , has since picked up and has helped in lowering rainfall deficit this season to 6% , sharply lower from 18% in the first week of june , according to reports . the country is expected to get rainfall at 106% of its long-term average .  mining and steel minister narendra singh tomar said the government 's idea was to develop the mining sector similar to that in resource-rich countries like australia and canada by capturing accurate geological data and auctioning production rights in a transparent manner .  " mining contributes significantly to our gross domestic product ( gdp ) . we have to raise its share from 2.4% of gdp now to 6% to help in development of the country . i seek the support of the industry in this , and steel sectors . mining and quarrying output grew 7.4% in 2015-16 , lower than the 10.8% growth recorded a year ago , according to provisional estimates from the ministry of statistics .  t.v. narendran , managing director of tata steel ltd , who attended the conclave , said on the sidelines that transparency in mine allocation has improved in a very big way . " as an industry we have been looking for a transparent and consistent policy . i am glad that the national mineral exploration policy has been announced to fill a gap that existed earlier . india is largely under-explored for minerals and there is a lot of potential for it . hopefully , there will be more exploration so that we can capitalize on our resource base , " said narendran .  this is the first time atomic mineral prospecting and production are being opened up to the private sector . as per the atomic minerals concession rules , 2016 , a stretch of 1000 sq . km along coastal areas where minerals are found below the limits specified by the atomic minerals directorate the ministry of mines . " we hope that by the end of this year , at least 50 atomic mineral blocks will be auctioned under the new regime , " said kumar .  on 29 june , the union cabinet had brought out the modalities for auctioning of other minerals such as gold , diamond , limestone and iron ore under the national mineral exploration policy . as per this , an exploration firm will be allowed to prospect for resources in a block after a competitive bid . the firm that agrees to do prospecting for the least amount of royalty to be received from the eventual production of minerals from that field will get prospecting rights . once the block is returned after exploration , it will be again auctioned for production in the light of the geological data available . the original explorer will get royalty from the revenue that the producing company shares with the state .  " i think the factors that limit mining now , including delays in environment and forest clearances , have been addressed . now , many more mines , i am sure , mining will contribute more to the growth of the nation , " jindal steel and power ltd chairman naveen jindal said after the conclave .