CBI arrests Kejri's principal secy in Rs 50-crore scam
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/556085/cbi-arrests-kejris-principal-secy.html

cbi arrests kejri 's principal secy in rs 50-crore scam  ? delhi chief minister arvind kejriwal 's principal secretary rajendra kumar and four others were arrested by the cbi in connection with a rs 50-crore scam .  the arrests will further deepen the animosity between the aam aadmi party ( aap ) government and the centre .  kumar , a 1989-batch ias officer whom the cbi named as the kingpin of the scam , is accused of starting a front company " endeavour systems " to provide it solutions . he routed ? government work to the firm without a tendering process from 2006 .  besides kumar , a mechanical engineer from iit-kharagpur who is considered close to kejriwal , deputy secretary in the chief minister 's office tarun sharma , endeavour systems ' sandeep kumar , dinesh gupta and ashok kumar were also arrested . ashok is kumar 's schoolmate . after the arrests , deputy chief minister manish sisodia saw a " conspiracy " by the narendra modi government to paralyse the delhi administration through such tactics . he said the witnessing gains made by the aap in goa and punjab .  retaliating , delhi bjp chief satish upadhyay said kejriwal has to answer the people about corruption charges against his principal secretary .  the centre and the aap were at loggerheads following a series of confrontations , including those over the president denying assent to office of profit bill , arrest of an aap mla on molestation charges and official matters like transfers and postings .  the arrest is the culmination of a probe that spanned over six months and a controversial raid at kumar 's office in the delhi secretariat on december 16 , 2015 , the day the case was registered .  the cbi has filed charges under sections 120-b ( criminal conspiracy ) of the indian penal code and relevant sections of the prevention of corruption act .  while the fir mentioned irregularities to the tune of rs 9.5 crore , officials said the scope of the scam was enlarged to rs 50 crore during the probe .