BJP attacks govt over BDA 'scams' on Day One of session
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/556083/bjp-attacks-govt-over-bda.html

you are here : home ? city ? bjp attacks govt over bda ' scams ' on day one of session  bjp attacks govt over bda ' scams ' on day one of session  bengaluru , july 5 , 2016 , dhns :  the bjp has charged that the bengaluru development authority ( bda ) has begun a new trend of allotting ' alternative sites ' to influential persons and thus allowing touts to earn crores of rupees .  on the first day of the monsoon session of the legislature on monday , the bjp began its attack against the government by making the illegalities of the bda as the focal point .  again raising the manner in which a certain hanumanthe gowda of kengeri is conning gullible people , the leader of the opposition in the assembly jagadish shettar said that gowda was instrumental in getting 45 alternative sites distributed illegally at hsr layout .  gowda had executed several general power of attorney ( gpa ) on behalf of innocent and poor people who owned bda sites in low market upmarket areas such as hsr layout and jnanabharati layout . documents have been fabricated in collusion with bda officials , shettar charged . " gowda , who was a pauper some years ago , is worth about rs 1,000 to rs 2,000 crore today . "  he said the bda scams were bigger than 2g and 3g ones and need a cbi probe . the agency , which is meant for creating infrastructure in the city , has become a witness to illegalities .  shettar said the nadaprabhu kempegowda layout that is now being formed is all set to go the arkavathi layout way . de-notification issue is going to haunt even the new layout . ias officers have already allotted 25-30 acres for themselves , he said .  the one-man committee headed by retired ias officer h shashidhar in its 2015 report stated that the bda had illegally granted 186 alternative sites between 2006 and 2014 , causing rs 33 crore losses to the authority .  the committee recommended that orders pertaining to all the sites be cancelled and disciplinary action initiated against accused officials immediately report , shettar said .  a first division clerk thippeswamy has been " lording " over the bda by indulging in rampant corruption , shettar said and added that such officials had been nurtured by former bda commissioner t sham bhatt .  though thippeswamy was suspended this april , he continues to call the shots in the bda , he charged . earlier , shettar tried to move an adjournment motion against the government over the bda issue .  dh news service  chief minister hits backchief minister siddaramaiah hit back at the bjp saying that the bda granted 1,631 alternative sites when the bjp was in power . he said that between 2008 and 2013 , as many as 1,631 alternative sites were distributed , while his government so far has sanctioned only 373 sites .  he insisted that no individual responsible for any of the scams is being protected . acting on the h shashidhar panel report , the government has cancelled 12 alternative sites , while another six cases are pending before court .  bengaluru development minister k j george said the shashidhar has cancelled all the resolutions pertaining to allotment of alternative sites and is in the process of canceling illegally granted alternative sites . he said there are several legal hurdles pertaining to the cancellation of the gpas created by hanumanthe gowda , who used the same to obtain alternative sites in prime layouts .