Jaish seeks funds for 'jihad in India' outside Karachi mosques
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/jaish-seeks-funds-for-jihad-in-india-outside-karachi-mosques-2894112/

The Jaish-e-Muhammad is soliciting funds from congregated Karachi mosques to send jihadists to fight in India and Afghanistan , footage obtained by The Indian Express reveals .  The footage , shot on Friday night and Saturday -- counted by believers as the most sacred of the holy month of Ramzan -- shows the Jaish 's fund collectors operating with impunity , even though the organisation is officially proscribed in Pakistan .  " Help the mujahideen of the Jaish-e-Muhammad , the mujahideen of Islam , fight jihad in Kashmir against India , and in Afghanistan against the Americans , " one man can be heard saying in footage shot Friday night , outside a mosque in Karachi 's Jacob Lines area .  Described as the " fountainhead of jihad " , the seminary is famous for having produced several top jihadist leaders , including Jaish chief Maulana Masood Azhar , Qari Saifullah Akhtar , who headed the **25;227;TOOLONG , and Fazl-ur-Rehman Khalil , the leader of Harkat-ul-Mujahideen .  The Jamia Uloom-e-Islam seminary was also alma mater to Sami-ul-Haq , the Uttar Pradesh-born head of Indian intelligence believes to be operating out of Karachi . Sami-ul-Haq , who uses the pseudonym Asim Umar , was designated a terrorist by the United States last week .  In an Eid message posted online on Friday , the AQIS chief called on Indian Muslims to " pick up their daggers , and start attacking the Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service officers who protect Hindus during communal riots " .  " When your daggers reach the necks of the Hindus who now call for your blood , you see how their words change , " he said .  Even though Jaish-e-Muhammad was banned by Pakistan in 2002 , following its attack on Parliament House in New Delhi , it continues to operate military facilities in several parts of Pakistan . Earlier this year , this newspaper had obtained satellite images showing that the terrorist group had set up new military facilities in the shadows of the historic Maujgarh fort , in Pakistan 's Cholistan desert .  Following January 's attack on the Indian Air Force base in Pathankot , Pakistan Prime Minister 's Foreign one of the attackers had been traced to the Jaish 's headquarters in Bahawalpur .  However , the findings of a team of Pakistani investigators who visited Pathankot are yet to be shared with New Delhi , and Islamabad has yet to accept that terrorists killed during the attack were its citizens .  Masood Azhar , who Aziz had said was being held in " protective custody " , has continued to write in Jaish 's in-house magazine , Rang-o-Noor .  In recent months , Indian security sources say , the Jaish-e-Muhammad 's operations have seen a significant uptick in Kashmir , with the group seeking to expand the strength of its cadre in the hills around Srinagar , as well as in northern Kashmir .