David Warner confident of full recovery for Sri Lanka vs Australia 1st ...
http://www.cricketcountry.com/news/david-warner-confident-of-full-recovery-for-sri-lanka-vs-australia-1st-test-469418

australia however hope david warner returns for the first-class match which will be played just before the first test .  david warner , who has been out of action due to a broken finger , has suggested that he will be fit and ready for australia 's first test against sri lanka , starting from july 26 . warner fractured his left hand 's index finger during fielding in a match against west indies in the recently ended tri-nation series 2016 in the caribbean . australia won the tri-series by beating the hosts west indies in the final . however australia hope warner 's return for the first-class tour match even if he misses the two-day game . the first-class match will be played just before the first test . full cricket scorecard : sri lanka vs australia , 1st test at kandy  according to espncricnfo , the australian opener said , " i 've done it before ( going into a test with no warm-up games ) . i 've picked up a bat and gone back out there and tried to play to . you always want some time in the nets . "  warner , who was told not to bat for nearly a month however is more concerned about fielding for australia in the slips . " the biggest thing for me is the fielding aspect . i field in the slips , so i 'm going to have to try taking a handful of catches there to make sure it 's nice and warm , " warner added . read : sl vs aus 2016 : warner doubtful for warm-up matches  meanwhile , the australian coach darren lehmann was equally confident about warner featuring in australia 's first test on the sri lankan tour . " he will be fine . he probably wo n't play the two-day game but should play the first-class game -- the tour game before we play the first test . even if he did n't , i am not too worried about that . he is one of these guys who picks up a bat quite quickly .  " he has had broken fingers and injuries before , and we have just . we would like him to play the tour game and , hopefully , medically he can , but if he ca n't , i am not too stressed . as long as he is available for the first test , " lehmann said .  " for myself , i 've said in the past , less is more . i prefer to go into a lot of the games fresh . i do n't usually hit a lot leading into any series or any game . i just like to go in there and bat for 20 minutes or so . "