The nostalgic coming-of-age story of India Post
http://www.economylead.com/blog/rajani-baburajan/the-nostalgic-coming-of-age-story-of-india-post-108423

The nostalgic coming-of-age story of India Post  We all are tuned to cope up with the delays and defaults of government services . Yes , in India , approaching a government office is generally perceived as " the job of the jobless ; " and if anyone dares to do that , he/she should be prepared to buy " thousand pairs of sandals " before getting the task done ( Courtesy : a commercial from a footwear company ) . For the same reason I had developed an aversion towards India Post services when I was living in metros , far away from my family in Kerala . The indefinite wait for receiving a registered post or a letter from my family had often made me vent my anger on the lifeless bricks of my house . It was when I fell prey to the ' lightning speed ' promises of the private courier companies . .  Surprisingly , the story has a different twist now . India Post has evolved to a tech-savvy , people friendly service ; on the other side , the totally unhappy with the way private courier companies are handling the service ; and trust me , now I am in deep love with India Post speed post service ! Yes , India Post has transformed a lot ; they are no more the slowpoke , but are the people-friendly mail delivery service of the new-age Indian .  The process is simple , but highly professional . I book the post at a post office at a minimum price ; it costs less than half of private courier service . My mobile number is attached to the packet . The moment the party receives the packet , I get an SMS . In case someone sends me a packet where my number is mentioned I get the message as soon as it reaches my post office . What 's more impressive is that you can track the packet , bit by bit -- done in a superb way -- much more professional than the so-called professional couriers ! ( See the image below ) .  Have you ever approached a private courier helpline and have you ever succeeded in you are lucky ! I have had enough bad experience from them . The numbers given in the website never get on their way . In case I succeed in connecting one of them , the executives play smarter by re-directing our calls to the next agent or asking us to contact the next branch office , and so on . Frustrated , I have also filed a legal case against a courier firm that failed to deliver a cheque to my old mother . They asked her to travel a long 25 km to collect the packet . The reason : they do n't have the service in that remote village .  Yes , here 's the success of our own India Post that has 154,866 post offices , ( 89.8% of which belong to rural India ) . Hats off to the visionaries of this postal system ; now we are able to connect anyone in any corner of India- even in places where telephone , cable TV and electricity are distant dreams . I was sad when the Department of Posts announced the " demise " of same will happen to the Inland letter , post card , post cover and those sticky stamps , all of which still sleep in the treasure box of my romantic days ! Indeed , they arouse the nostalgic at the same time exciting memories of those days when I eagerly waited for the postman carrying the letter/ greetings from my boyfriend !  Memories will fade away , so are the materials on earth that build those memories . In this age of e-mail , Whatsapp and 123greetings.com , there is no point in worrying about the fate of inland , post cards , and the like ; but I still feel we should preserve our postal network without any damage to it , and uphold its integrity of serving the people in a democratic way . I am optimistic seeing the evolution of our age-old post-office to a banking center , a pension/PF shelter for elderly , an e-commerce collection center , and much more in offing .  Yes , there is no substitute for India Post . It 's the heart of the country , circulating its pulses it die .