An outsider for the most vital corporate job
http://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/outsourced-cfos-gain-prominence-in-corporate-world/article8862646.ece

Ask any start-up Founder and CEO how big her company is and she is bound to rattle off revenue , cash-flows and projected profits . But ask her if her founding team includes a finance expert , chances are that the answer is ' No ' .  " Given the emphasis on finance , valuations and million-dollar dreams that entrepreneurs set out with , it is ironical that too few start-ups actually have finance as an in-house function , " said Sachin Sancheti , Chief Technology Officer and Founder at the 18-month old cloud-service provider Scalable Solutions . " I have not yet met or heard of a technology start-up that has a finance expert as one of the co-founders . " This , he attributes to the fact that business ideas , which go on to become business offerings , typically emerge from technologists and business folks . " Before we start out on our own , we tend to meet with and ideate with those like ourselves in technology or project management teams . And rarely does a finance person participate in those sessions relative , a qualified accountant , was willing to bet his all on Scalable and wanted to be part of the founding team . " You need a co-founder you trust and with a close relative , trust comes first . "  For the now 20-strong team that his business is , Mr. Sancheti said , " We did not need to outsource processes such as salary payment and filing of tax returns . We knew exactly what laws to comply with . " All this , he said , helped him focus on servicing his customers very early in the business . But now that he is ready to grow and seek investment , he feels the need for a financial ' strategist ' even if only outsourced . " I want someone to tell me how to account for the numbers and how to present my finances to an investor . "  Here 's where the concept of the outsourced CFO comes in .  Alok Subudhi , who founded Thinkways , a company in the area of mobile apps and software as a service , said in his early days as entrepreneur . According to him , having a CFO , in-house or outsourced , is priceless . Thinkways started in 2005 , and was sold to Vattikutti Ventures in 2011 , Mr. Subudhi said that if he started up all over again , he would rope in a finance person as partner from Day One . " We too started off thinking that an accountant would do to take care of our vouchers . Only as we grew and sought investor money , did we feel the need to better present our balance sheet and did we realise the importance of a finance person . "  Financial strategy  In Mr. Subudhi 's case , the finance expert happened to be Jayant Tiwari who calls himself the Outsourced CFO . Mr. Tiwari , was financial consultant , investment banker and legal advisor all rolled into one , according to Mr. Subudhi .  " From categorising the money you put into the company between expenses and investments , to tax-law compliance to saving for a rainy day , all of these were brought home to of diktats that Mr. Tiwari had for Thinkways was to set apart 10 per cent of net profits for an unforeseen expenditure . " He ensured that a separate bank account was created for this amount . In time , this became a matter of discipline for us . " Mr. Subudhi realised the value of this discipline when unexpected emergencies cropped up . " Imagine being able to lend a lumpsum to a colleague in dire need of finances during a medical emergency . In a small team , these things matter a great deal . "  The strategy part came later , for Mr. Subudhi . Thinkways ' client Vattikutti Ventures was interested in a buy-out . " We went back and forth a bit . At one point it seemed like the deal would not go through . " Differences cropped up on whether the deal would be an outright acquisition or what is now called an ' aqui-hire ' -- ie , the business , brand and employees alone would shift to the buyer . " Our outsourced CFO represented us to the buyer in all , the transaction would have fallen through , said Mr. Subudhi .  The OCFO  Mr. Tiwari , whose email id includes ' ocfo ' ( for outsourced CFO ) , said , " It 's easy to do the accounting -- the recording of a company 's history in rupees . " A CFO should be able to tell the management team how to look at its finances , as a tool to where it wants to go , as well as an accurate reflection of the context of events it records , he said . " Routine accounting captures the events but rarely the context . "  Business strategy is easy to understand . But how exactly does Mr. Tiwari contribute to financial strategy ? " If an entrepreneur has spent Rs.60 lakh in his first year of operations , a first-timer would categorise this as an expense , in all probability . " He explained that for an entrepreneur , a majority of that amount would have gone into developing a proof-of-concept , integrating pieces of software and creating a platform . All that , emphasised both revenues and returns over time , well beyond the financial year .  " The amount spent on rentals and peripheral infrastructure , would be current operating expenditure . " This may sound basic , but many entrepreneurs fail to draw the distinction in their financials , as they busy themselves with building a product or finding customers . According to him , there are clear , statutory guidelines to draw such distinctions . " With a little thought , the company accurately reflect the loss in the first year to be Rs.10 lakh or less , instead of Rs.60 lakh ! " The financials will then reflect the investment in its future , accurately at the Rs.50 lakh level . Could not agree more , said B Sriram , founder of 8-year old software services company Contus . He said , " Even though I am a commerce graduate , I was focused on developing my business . " The first time he felt the need to better present his finances was when Contus was setting up its office in the U.S. Once the CFO function was outsourced , key for Contus . " Merely understanding debit and credit did not help us . Our finance partner Mentoris was able to identify where our money was going . " Mr. Sriram also said that capitalisation of product development expenses was something his finance partner guided him on .  This is where , said Mr. Tiwari , financial strategist is irreplaceable . Imagine , he urges , the impact on the financials , profitability and balance-sheet of a company if as much structured thought is applied to these areas as is applied to prospects and operations .  But that does not mean to say that daily accounting does not have its place . Typically , accounting service providers take on the duty of filing tax returns for the company , offering company secretary-ship through an associate firm , deduction of tax at source for their clients ' employees and even HR services such as salary payments .  Accounting services  This also helps them spot opportunities to offer financial ' strategy ' when needed . This combination of offerings has helped popular chartered accountants ' place ' people the outsourced manpower concept in software services , these accounting firms charge per month per head . And should an opportunity arise , step in for financial strategy consulting as well , According to Mr. K.G. Suresh , " It is difficult for a company to retain a CFO full-time . We have seen it so many times -- where a young CFO is crucial to the organisation , but leaves for greener pastures , for the very reason -- that he is good . "  With the ability to attract and retain talent by offering young minds the opportunity to shift roles quickly in their career , Mr. Suresh 's accounting firm keeps a client 's boat steady . Ask for a few numbers and you get a ball-park . " If it costs a client Rs.10 lakh for outsourced accounting services , placing a couple of skilled accountants in their office costs them only Rs.12 lakh a year . Add to this the benefit of the top minds in the accountants ' firm being at hand for financial strategy consulting . " For instance , he and his . " A client of ours wished to get listed on the stock exchanges . The Initial Public Offering , or IPO , was their first thought . It requires going through quite a few processes before your shares finally list on the exchanges . We spotted , and helped facilitate the merger with another firm that was listed but was in financially bad shape . " Acquiring the listed company allowed the aspirant to meet its goal of having its shares traded on the stock exchange . Suresh 's accounting firm services between 12 and 15 clients at any given time .  Corporate services  Some have scaled up even further to offer outsourced CFO services . MyCFO offers services in strategy and governance , formulating business plans , participating in annual budgets , fund-raising through stake sale or raising loans and business process improvements . This allows them to tap clients across various sizes , from early-stage to mid-sized companies . According to Murali R , Vice-President , MyCFO , " Customers could even include listed companies that come to us as an interim measure . The decision size , stage at which the company is or a timeline . If the company derives value out of the outsourcing arrangement , the relationship could continue for long . " With 150 full-time people , experience of accountants ranging from 3 to 30 years , MyCFO sees what it calls a ' massive ' opportunity in the Indian market .  " We are talking of 60,000 companies in India with a turnover of Rs.100 crore and above . " Add to the mix multinationals , start-ups and private-equity backed companies . " The availability and quality of finance manpower is just not adequate . This gap is not going to go away for the next 20 years . " In effect , he said , even with " 10-15 high-quality CFO services firms , the demand will still be left unmet . "  Global opportunity  Some service providers have identified niche opportunities to offer services in specific geographies beyond India . Sundaram Business Services works with accounting firms to offer business process services to clients . According to Rajesh Venkat , CEO , SBS , " id-sized Over time , they want to move into consulting and be positioned as cutting-edge experts in the accounting space . " This , he said , offered players like SBS an opportunity to offer adjunct BPO services . He cited SBS 's domain knowledge as critical to its work with accounting firms in Australia . " In accounts finalisation , not everything is template-based . There could be quirks and nuances in an industry that is specific to that sector . In an industry , marketing spends are spread over a period and revenues happen only in short bursts . One would know this unique aspect only if you are clued in to the industry . "  According to him , " This is the start of a trend . Along with accounting firms , BPOs offer total finance functions to small and mid-sized firms especially where they can not afford a full-fledged CFO . It is a smarter model . "  Outsourcing the finance function is a smart model for small firms . Which is one of the reasons why , despite being the sole founder , Sancheti his company . " CEO or CFO , one can not ' recruit ' a co-founder . Minds have to click and there should be chemistry . " Till then , it is opportunities galore for the outsourced CFO .  1 . Comments will be moderated by The Hindu editorial team . 2 . Comments that are abusive , personal , incendiary or irrelevant can not be published . 3 . Please write complete sentences . Do not type comments in all capital letters , or in all lower case letters , or using abbreviated text . ( example : u can not substitute for you , d is not ' the ' , n is not ' and ' ) . 4 . We may remove hyperlinks within comments . 5 . Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name , to avoid rejection .  Get News Delivered To Your Email  Please enter a valid email address .  Kindly confirm the Newsletter subscription by clicking the link that your have received by email