Is my divorce genuine?
http://www.jamaicaobserver.com/magazines/allwoman/Is-my-divorce-genuine_10336144

is my divorce genuine ?  my ex-wife sent me divorce papers some years ago , but i did not sign them . she told me that we are divorced . is this divorce genuine , and how can i know if it 's genuine ?  i am always amazed when i receive letters like yours . my amazement centres on the lack of interest shown by such writers to matters of great importance relating to various areas of their lives .  you have waited for years before trying to find out what your position is , when you could have asked for a copy of the decree absolute , instead of only receiving a word of mouth assurance that it was obtained .  you see , it is important to know the result of a divorce petition , because the grant of the final decree changes the parties ' personal and legal status . you change from a married man to a divorced man . after divorce , you no longer have to have any contact with your ex-spouse , unless you have with each other about matters relating to the children 's welfare and development needs .  legally divorce makes you free , morally , to have other relationships , without them having an impact on your marital life .  you are also free of all legal obligations to your erstwhile spouse , unless the court which had conduct of the divorce proceedings and/or other relevant proceedings made orders enjoining you to do or continue to do , anything for her -- example , to continue to maintain her . if there is no such order , and the court merely dissolved the marriage , as seems to be the case with your ex-wife 's petition , then you will be as free as you were before you got married .  now let me deal with your specific questions . these are good questions and the answers should be obtained before you decide to remarry , if that is your plan .  as to your first question , yes , the divorce can be genuine even though you did not sign the papers you were served . as long obtained her decrees .  you see , there is no requirement for you to sign the divorce papers you were served . what you are to do , if you wish , is fill in and file in the court , your acknowledgment of service . by this document you inform the court that you were indeed served , and that you intend to defend the petition or any paragraphs therein , by filing an answer , or that you do not intend to defend it at all . in your case , you clearly wished the process to proceed undefended . you may also choose to do nothing , as you did .  this being the case , she or her lawyer on her behalf , would then have filed in the court , an affidavit of service , in which the process server or the person who served the documents on you would have related on oath , the circumstances of the service on you . that is to say , the date , time and place it was effected and how you were identified by them  documents would also have been filed for the process to proceed by default on the basis of your failure to acknowledge and/or answer . there would also have been filed an affidavit of search to prove the fact that the court records have been searched and no acknowledgment or answer was found . then the divorce proceeding would have been dealt with by a judge on the documents filed on behalf of your wife .  if the judge was satisfied that everything was in order , then the decree nisi would have been granted and as neither you nor your wife indicated that you and she were going to try for reconciliation , then six weeks later the application for a decree absolute would have been filed and once again if it is proved by affidavit that neither you nor anyone else had intervened in the matter , then the decree would have been granted .  now for your second question . this is simple ( though it sometimes incomprehensively takes a long time to get ) -- you must apply to the supreme court for a certified being a true copy of the decree and bearing the impressed seal of the court , will be your proof positive that you are genuinely divorced . you really should get a copy . i can think of several reasons why you ought to have it . in any event , you may simply need to prove what your real status is in law and in fact .  disclaimer : the contents of this article are for informational purposes only and must not be relied upon as an alternative to legal advice from your own attorney .  comments  post a comment  house rules  1 . we welcome reader comments on the top stories of the day . some comments may be republished on the website or in the newspaper -- email addresses will not be published .  2 . please understand that comments are moderated and it is not always possible to publish all that have been submitted . we will , however , try to publish comments that are representative of all received .  3 . we ask that comments are civil and to the topic under discussion .  4 . please do not write in block capitals since this makes your comment hard to read .