Fire crews tackle blaze at historic house Vernon Mount in Cork
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/ireland/irish-news/fire-crews-tackle-blaze-at-historic-house-vernon-mount-in-cork-1.2733276

By using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .  Fire crews tackle blaze at historic house Vernon Mount in Cork  Villa appeared in World Monuments Fund List of 100 Most Endangered Sites  about 7 hours agoUpdated : less than a minute ago  Olivia Kelleher  Vernon Mount was built in 1784 for a prominent Cork merchant and is understood to have been designed by architect Abraham Hargrave  Fire services in Cork were attending at the scene of a blaze at a villa dating from 1784 which has appeared in the World Monuments Fund List of 100 Most Endangered Sites .  Vernon Mount was built for a prominent merchant in the city and is understood to have been designed by architect Abraham Hargrave . Ceiling and wall paintings by leading 19th century Cork artist Nathaniel Grogan remain inside the house .  The property has largely been left to the elements since planning permission for a major hotel was refused for the site in 1997 . The cause .  The house was named after Mount Vernon , the home of US president George Washington on the Potomac River . Its two-storey curved front is unusual and complemented by bows on either side .  Interior features include an elegant cantilevered staircase with a neo-classical wrought-iron balustrade , and a fine oval first-floor landing with marble Corinthian columns . The decorative plasterwork , ceiling and wall paintings by Grogan are particularly noteworthy . It remained as a family home until it was purchased by the Cork and Munster Motorcycle Club who built a motor-cross race track on the parkland .  Owner  In 1997 , it was bought by developers led by San Diego-based IT entrepreneur Jonathan Moss who were refused planning permission to redevelop the house and build houses/apartments on the site . Moss remains the principal owner of the house and the motorcycle club lease the grounds for their use .  Extensive roof repairs were carried out by Cork County Council with grant aid from the Department of Arts , Culture and the Gaeltacht in 2012 . This involved replacement of 60 per cent of .  The Irish Georgian Society drew the dereliction of Vernon Mount to the attention of the World Monument Fund which placed it on their list of 100 Most Endangered Sites in 2008 . A local voluntary group , the Grange Frankfield Partnership , was formed in 2010 to campaign for the conservation and restoration of Vernon Mount .  Vernon Mount was built by a merchant called Attiwell Hayes , and was passed on to his son , Sir Henry Brown Hayes .  Brown Hayes became a notorious figure after he was said to have kidnapped a local heiress , Mary Pike , in July 1797 , bringing her to Vernon Mount for a fake marriage . She eventually managed to raise the alarm about the ordeal .