Third Man United player joins Sunderland as Januzaj loan switch ...
http://www.the42.ie/januzaj-man-united-sunderland-confirmed-2924414-Aug2016/

david moyes has confirmed that sunderland have brought in manchester united winger adnan januzaj on a season-long loan .  the belgium international was handed his break with united when moyes was in charge at old trafford , but struggled for game-time under louis van gaal .  januzaj also had an unsuccessful loan move to borussia dortmund last season , and the sunderland boss has confirmed this latest temporary switch in a pre-match news conference ahead of his side 's opener at manchester city .  " adnan will give us a different variation , " moyes said .  " i have to get him back to the level he played at two years ago -- he will get every opportunity to do the business . i 'm hoping the sunderland fans will see the real adnan januzaj . "  the 21-year-old winger will go straight into sunderland 's squad to face city on saturday , along with fellow new recruits papy djilobodji , paddy mcnair and donald love .  januzaj has so far made 50 premier league appearances for united , with the stadium of light in october 2013 .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal content of external websites.