Meet the Swedish sisters who became billionaires this week
http://www.irishtimes.com/business/personal-finance/meet-the-swedish-sisters-who-became-billionaires-this-week-1.2754025

The two daughters of Swedish industrialist Fredrik Lundberg have become billionaires this week as shares of the family 's investment company climbed to a record high .  Louise Lindh ( 36 ) and Katarina Martinson ( 35 ) each own a 14 per cent economic interest in publicly traded Lundbergfoeretagen , according to the company 's 2015 annual report .  Shares of the Stockholm-based business have risen 28 per cent in the past 12 months and matched their all-time high of 517.5 Swedish kronor ( $61.08 ) on Thursday .  The stock is in part benefiting from a rise in real estate values in Stockholm , where apartment prices have climbed 24 per cent in the past year , according to researcher Real Capital Analytics .  Property made up about 40 per cent of the company 's 59 billion kronor of market-valued assets at the end of May .  A scarcity of publicly available shares - the family controls 70 per cent of the capital and more than 90 per cent of the voting stock - is amplifying the price gains , Securities .  The siblings ' ownership increased from 7.6 per cent at the start of 2015 after their father almost doubled their stakes in the family business by transferring some of his holdings .  The value of those shares , along with dividends and interests in other publicly traded assets , has given each of the sisters a $1.1 billion fortune , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The family declined to comment on their wealth , according to spokesman Roger Ekstrom . About four-fifths of the company 's net asset value comes from listed stocks , including property business Hufvudstaden , which manages commercial and residential properties mainly in Stockholm , and Holmen , which owns forest land it uses to produce paper products .  Unlisted real estate arm Fastighets Lundberg makes up the remainder . Lundbergs was founded by the sisters ' grandfather , Lars Erik Lundberg , an engineer who in 1944 started his own construction firm focused on developing residential buildings .