WhatsApp's data sharing with Facebook to be monitored by UK ...
https://www.businessworld.ie/technology-news/WhatsApp-s-data-sharing-with-Facebook-to-be-monitored-by-UK-regulator-565539.html

whatsapp 's data sharing with facebook to be monitored by uk regulator  britain 's data privacy regulator said on friday it would monitor how popular messaging service whatsapp shares data with parent facebook inc under a new privacy policy .  the information commission 's office ( ico ) said while some users may be concerned by the lack of control provided by the updated privacy policy , others may consider it a positive . ( http : //bit.ly/2bmbydx )  whatsapp , which has more than a billion users , said on thursday it would start sharing users ' phone numbers with facebook , allowing for more relevant advertisements and friend recommendations on the social media network .  however , the ico does not have the power to block such a move .  " organizations do not need to get prior approval from the ico to change their approaches , but they do need to stay within data protection laws , " said information commissioner elizabeth denham .  whatsapp has said users could choose not to share account information with facebook . plan to explore ways for businesses to send messages using its platform .  whatsapp said earlier this year that it was experimenting making businesses pay to reach their customers through the service . ( reuters )  business world  business world is an affiliate of newsaccess , irelands leading media intelligence provider . newsaccess provides media monitoring and media analysis services to hundreds of organisations across the globe . while every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data provided , neither business world nor its agents or representatives will be responsible for any loss or damage on the part of users however caused . all information provided " as is " for informational purposes only , not intended for trading purposes or advice . business world is not liable for any informational errors , incompleteness , delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein . by accessing the business world site , you agree not to redistribute the information found therein .