Blue economy synergies prompt UCC-led MARIBE to seek _120m ...
https://www.siliconrepublic.com/innovation/blue_economy_europe_horizon_2020_ucc

Blue economy synergies prompt UCC-led MARIBE to seek ? 120m funding  Emboldened by synergies between researchers and start-ups targeting the ? 500bn European marine or " blue " economy , the UCC-led MARIBE consortium is to seek ? 120m in funding to be made available in the next round of Horizon 2020 funding .  MARIBE ( Marine Investment in the Blue Economy ) is led by the Marine Renewable Energy ( MaREI ) Centre in University College Cork . A total of 11 partners from Ireland , UK , Belgium , Spain , Italy , Malta and the Netherlands contribute to the project .  At a final meeting in Cork this week , MARIBE will discuss the outcomes of its research , as well as the progress of nine fledgling companies that are seeking funding .  According to the European Commission , the blue economy represents roughly 5.4m jobs and generates a gross added value of almost ? 500bn a year . MARIBE suggests that the recent announcement by the Port of Cork that its profits for 2015 have increased by 79pc is activity increases , so does the competition for space as coastal areas become overcrowded .  Overcrowded coastal areas threaten blue economy windfall  This fact led the European Commission to publish a call in 2014 asking researchers to prepare for the future innovative offshore economy . Expecting economic activities to move further offshore as competition for space increased , this call was designed to promote smarter and more sustainable use of our seas .  MARIBE will recommend in its report to the European Commission that ? 120m be made available in the next round of Horizon 2020 funding for further development of multi-use ocean space projects .  It pays particular attention to new and emerging industries that can benefit greatly from the synergies created , increasing their chances of survival and enabling future growth .  These sectors are often referred to as blue growth industries : marine renewable energy , aquaculture , marine biotechnology and seabed mining . By developing blue growth industries and encouraging smarter use of our seas , MARIBE hopes to fulfil its aim of promoting job growth .  Examples of the blue industries as competition for space increases , a Norwegian seaweed company SES has been investigating the potential of moving their seaweed farms further offshore .  By combining with Wave Dragon , a very large wave energy device , the seaweed company could locate farms in areas not normally considered viable and where space remains abundant . The Wave Dragon protects the seaweed from large waves and creates energy at the same time .  MARIBE pointed out that 70pc of the world 's surface is covered by water and yet 98pc of our food energy comes from agriculture on land . At a time when climate change and sustainability issues are coming to the fore , seaweed farming presents a sustainable and renewable source of biomass to meet the demands of a growing population .  By sharing space and working together , Wave Dragon and SES could share installation and maintenance costs , reducing the overall cost to each .  " It is hoped to pilot the Wave Dragon project off the Welsh coast , " said UCC 's Dr Gordon Dalton , principal investigator of the programme the Welsh scheme to prepare plans to secure the funding they require . "  Another example of the synergy between the aquaculture and wave industry is a project that is being developed by Albatern Ltd and the AquaBiotech group .  Albatern 's wave energy devices could be installed close to a fish farm in locations ( Ireland , Scotland , Wales and Malta ) up to 6km offshore . The new wave energy device could then provide electricity directly to the fish farm , reducing its costs and ensuring a supply of sustainable energy . Surplus energy could also be brought onshore to satisfy the energy needs of the farm 's onshore facilities .  " The multi-use of space projects that MARIBE works with offers the potential for great benefits in the form of clean energy and sustainable food sources . We have demonstrated that the projects are financially viable at commercial stage and that real cost savings are produced as a result of the shared use of space , " said Dalton.