Donnelly anxious to add to his and Limerick's 1984 minor title
http://www.limerickleader.ie/news/sport/214355/donnelly-anxious-to-add-to-his-and-limerick-s1984-minortitle.html

Donnelly anxious to add to his and Limerick 's 1984 minor title  LIMERICK go in search of a first All Ireland minor hurling title since 1984 when they play Tipperary in Croke Park next Sunday .  Not for the first time the ' 84 stars play a central role in this present inter-county team .  The Limerick minors are managed by Pat Donnelly -- a member of the ' 84 winning panel .  Two of his team-mates ( Don Flynn and Anthony O'Riordan ) from 32-years ago now provide son to the county minor panel -- Cian Magner Flynn and Paul O'Riordan .  Other team-mates ( Ger Hegarty , Anthony Carmody and John Fitzgerald ) from that All Ireland minor winning side have also provided inter-county players in recent seasons -- Gearoid Hegarty , Mark Carmody and Conor Fitzgerald .  As well as Pat Donnelly , other ' 84 minors have also progressed to be involved with Limerick inter-county sides -- Gary Kirby , Leo O'Connor , Declan Nash and Pat Davoren .  Donnelly recalls those minor days and believes " The nucleus of what I was involved with back in ' 84 was from the Harty Cup , " he recalled of Limerick CBS Sexton Street .  " There were 11 of us from the Harty team in the minor panel - now we have Ardscoil Ris and Castletroy , who have a big input into our panel , " explained the South Liberties man .  On Sunday he bids to return The Irish Press Cup to Limerick for just the fourth time ever -- 1940 , 1958 and ' 84 . The ' 84 final was won in Thurles , so it 's 1958 since Limerick last collected All Ireland minor silverware in Croke Park .  Limerick train this Wednesday and Friday and as the big day draws near the manager is asking his players to remain focus and channel their energy in the right place .  " We want them to embrace it - it comes and goes too quick . They are young and think that things are always going to be like this - you have to embrace it but also channel channel the energy and focus has to be on the right thing , which is to perform on September 4 , " stressed Donnelly .  While Limerick have beaten Clare , Waterford , Wexford and Dublin to reach the final , they did lose to Tipperary in the Munster final -- by 17-points .  " It 's hard to know , it was n't really about learning lessons - I ca n't see where it came from , " recalls the Limerick manager of that Gaelic Grounds provincial final no-show .  " I would just say to the lads give it what you have ; perform , perform , perform - that is all we ask . No need to do anything else only perform and we did n't do that in the Munster final . We have played five matches and we won four and we did n't turn up in the fifth , which just happened to be the Munster final . What we will ask them is to give the best that you can do and see where that get us , " he outlined shown in bouncing back from the Munster final loss will stand to his side .  " That 's one of our strengths - I think there is real character in these players . I think the players realise that they have to have character , they have to have guts , they have to have determination , they have to do all that - the sum of all that is what will bring us success on September 4 if we are going to get it . "  This website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie Limerick Leader provides news , events , and sport features from the Limerick area . For the best up to date information relating to Limerick or bookmark this page .