Cavan slips in latest litter rankings
http://www.anglocelt.ie/news/roundup/articles/2016/09/05/4126104-cavan-slips-in-latest-litter-rankings/

Cavan slips in latest litter rankings  Co Cavan has dropped a further seven places , the third slip in successive years in the latest Irish Business Against Litter rankings .  The county now sits at 31 out of over 40 towns surveyed across the county , in a list which saw neighbouring Monaghan bump up from its previous position to 19 .  Both towns are " Clean to European Norms " .  Cavan is a four time winner of the Anti Litter League , and up until last year had consistently held a top three position in the League and has only twice finished outside the Top 4 .  While nearly all of Ireland 's main towns are now clean , IBAL says pockets of our major cities continue to suffer from significant levels of litter . A study , conducted by an Taisce , showed only two of 25 towns surveyed to be littered , but 7 of the 8 bottom places in the rankings to be occupied by city areas . IBAL says councils need to concentrate on those specific Taisce report on Cavan stated ; " There were some moderately littered sites in Cavan which just missed getting the top litter grade e.g. Bridge Street , Church Street and Cavan Bus Station ( Interior ) -- with a little extra care and attention this could easily be achieved . The Library &amp; Environs was an excellent site with all aspects in very good order . Cavan Bus Station ( Exterior ) was seriously littered and certainly had the appearance of a lack of thorough cleaning for quite some time . "  The report on Monaghan stated : " All the approach roads to Monaghan town got the top litter grade , creating a positive first impression of the town . Other top ranking sites included The Diamond Town Centre , Peter 's Lake , Monaghan Museum and Tourist Office at Market Square and Lidl on Coolshannagh Road -- these sites were n't just clear of litter but very nicely presented and maintained . Peter 's Lake , in particular , is a lovely waterside resource right in the centre of the town . The one Grade D site has site commonly known as ' Sam 's Diner ' behind Maxol/ Mace just beside Coolshannagh Roundabout has been seriously neglected over a prolonged period of time . "  Explore Our Range Of Services  Cookies on Anglo Celt website  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website . We also use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you . If you continue without changing your settings , we 'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the Anglo Celt website . However , if you would like to , you can change your cookie settings at any time by amending your browser settings .  How does Anglo Celt use cookies ?  Cookies enable us to identify your device , or you when you have logged in . We use cookies that are strictly necessary to enable you to move around the site or to provide certain basic features . We use cookies to enhance the functionality of the website by storing your preferences , for example . We also use cookies to provide you with a better user experience . We do n't sell the information collected by cookies , nor do we disclose the information to third parties , except where required by law ( for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies ) .