UK economy expands at steady pace despite Brexit vote
https://www.businessworld.ie/world-news/UK-economy-expands-at-steady-pace-despite-Brexit-vote-565646.html

uk economy expands at steady pace despite brexit vote  britain 's economy appears to have largely avoided a big hit from the brexit vote in june and is growing at a steady pace while companies have grown slightly more optimistic about the outlook , the confederation of british industry said on sunday .  the cbi 's growth indicator rose to +8 in august from +5 in july when britain was in the grip of a political crisis triggered by the decision by voters to leave the european union .  consumer services companies grew moderately in the three months to august while manufacturers expanded more slowly , the survey of 833 companies showed .  " while it 's still early days following the eu vote , the economy is continuing to grow at a steady pace , despite mixed performances across different sectors , " rain newton-smith , cbi chief economist , said .  the pound 's plunge since the vote to leave the eu had helped exporters but will put upward pressure on inflation and erode household spending power , she added avoided a sharp hit from the brexit vote , but some indicators of business investment have suggested it could slow in 2017 . the bank of england has said it expects no growth in the second half of this year and it may cut interest rates again soon . ( reuters )  business world  business world is an affiliate of newsaccess , irelands leading media intelligence provider . newsaccess provides media monitoring and media analysis services to hundreds of organisations across the globe . while every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data provided , neither business world nor its agents or representatives will be responsible for any loss or damage on the part of users however caused . all information provided " as is " for informational purposes only , not intended for trading purposes or advice . business world is not liable for any informational errors , incompleteness , delays or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein . by accessing the business world site , you agree not to redistribute the information found therein .