State Of Play: The End-Of-Season Hurling Power Rankings
http://www.punditarena.com/gaa/bbarry/end-season-hurling-power-rankings/

champions once again . just like in 2010 , tipp look set up to dominate the hurling landscape for years to come . will that happen this time around ? who knows ...  with young players such as john mcgrath , michael breen and seamus kennedy leading the line for the premier , and a minor team fresh from an all-ireland triumph moving up the ranks , these are exciting times for tipperary .  2 . kilkenny ( no change )  where to now for brian cody and the cats ? beaten by a far superior team , it showed that kilkenny do not have the strength to match the country 's best teams , fighting fire with fire . having abandoned their defensive set-up that helped them to the final , the cats were picked apart .  there is hope for kilkenny , but without an u-21 leinster title since 2012 there are certainly question marks .  2017 will be interesting .  3 . waterford ( no change )  the d ? ise are in relatively good shape , saturday will fill them with confidence that they can become the first waterford side to reach hurling 's promised land since 1959 .  they have some of the best young players in the country , a forward-thinking manager who can mix it with the best and a real opportunity in the coming years .  4 . galway ( no change )  real question marks hang over galway . they are comfortably third/fourth in the pecking order , but there is little to suggest that they can finally make the breakthrough .  they fell short against kilkenny in the leinster final , before giving it everything against a somewhat misfiring tipperary side in the semi-final .  it would appear that the tribesmen have reached a glass ceiling .  5 . clare ( no change )  the banner are more than capable of challenging the established order . doubt remains whether davy fitzgerald will remain as manager .  this year , for the first time since 2013 , clare gave a good account of themselves . the league triumph acts as a timely reminder what .  6 . wexford ( no change )  with promising underage talent coming through , the yellowbellies are on the up . in lee chin and conor mcdonald , they boast two of the strongest hurlers in the country .  however , they came up badly short against waterford in the semi-final , in a tie that was over as soon as it started . they were well beaten by dublin in leinster , and must take a scalp in the province next season for more progress .  7 . cork ( no change )  a lot has been said about the rebels . a lot more will be said throughout the winter .  it is not long ago that these players were challenging for all-ireland honours . with p ? irc u ? chaoimh re-opening next summer and tipperary and limerick due to honour away commitments , the stage could be set for the rebels to make a statement .  8 . limerick ( no change )  2016 was a disastrous season for the 2013 munster champions , as tame defeats at the doldrums .  however , scores of underage talent coming through suggest the future is bright . first things first ; they need to find the right man for the vacant managerial position .  9 . dublin ( no change )  the metropolitans made an early exit from the championship , but are a division 1 side with massive talent at their disposal . on their day , the dubs are capable of mixing it with the very best .  a kind draw in leinster next season could give them momentum . with another leinster u-21 title in the bag , there is no shortage of talent coming through .  10 . offaly ( no change )  a promising league campaign was followed by a decent run in the leinster championship , and the faithful have re-established themselves as the province 's fifth best side . however , isolated results do little for the future , and a lot of work needs to be done for offaly hurling .  11 . westmeath ( no change )  the highlight of the year was undoubtedly in the right direction , long may it continue .  12 . laois ( no change )  it was a year of regression for the o'moore county , as the progress under cheddar plunkett hit a speed-bump .  perhaps they are more suited to playing in the leinster round-robin rather than being inserted straight into the quarter-final .  13 . kerry ( no change )  the goal at the start of the year was to retain their liam maccarthy status , and that was achieved . while they will be disappointed not to have done more , it was a successful year for the kingdom .  14 . carlow ( no change )  relegated , and replaced by meath for 2017 , it was a poor year for carlow hurling.