Here's why your boss should let you listen to music at work
http://www.thejournal.ie/music-at-work-boss-should-let-you-listen-2965147-Sep2016/

here 's why your boss should let you listen to music at work  but happy music .  music can drastically enhance the spirit of co-operation in a workplace , a new study suggests .  in the paper newly published by the journal of organizational behavior , cornell researchers kevin kniffin , jubo yan , brian wansink and william schulze describe two studies they conducted to test the effect of different types of music on the cooperative behavior of individuals working as a team .  for each study , participants were grouped into teams of three . each team member was given multiple opportunities to either contribute to the team 's value using tokens or keep the tokens for personal use .  when happy , upbeat music was played -- researchers chose the happy days theme song , brown eyed girl by van morrison , yellow submarine by the beatles and walking on sunshine by katrina and the waves -- team members were more likely to contribute to the group 's value .  when music deemed unpleasant was played -- in this -- participants were more likely to keep tokens for themselves .  the researchers found contribution levels to the public good when happy , upbeat songs were played were approximately one-third higher compared to the less pleasant music .  when researchers conducted a second experiment testing how people react when no music is played , the results were the same . the researchers conclude that happy music provokes people to more often make decisions that contribute to the good of the team .  " music is a pervasive part of much of our daily lives , whether we consciously notice it or not , " said kniffin , a behavioural scientist at cornell and lead author on the paper .  the researchers suggest managers consider not only the customer experience but also workers ' when picking the day 's music .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.