2013 champions Midleton book first place in this year's Cork senior ...
http://www.the42.ie/midleton-st-finbarrs-2973300-Sep2016/

2013 champions Midleton book first place in this year 's Cork senior hurling semi-finals  The East Cork club defeated St Finbarr 's last night .  2013 CHAMPIONS MIDLETON became the first team to advance to this year 's Cork senior hurling semi-finals when they saw off St Finbarr 's in last night 's quarter-final tie in P ? irc U ? Rinn by 2-20 to 2-13 .  Midleton produced a powerful finish to a game where the teams had been level at 2-12 apiece with ten minutes remaining . Cork senior Conor Lehane starred in the finale as he hit 0-5 as the East Cork club ran out victors by seven points .  Midleton entered the game after knocking out Sarsfields -- champions four times in the last eight years -- in the previous round , but they were rocked in the first-half by St Finbarr 's .  Kilkenny native Bill Beckett and Ian Lordan both netted as St Finbarr 's were in front 2-7 to 0-5 at one juncture and despite James Nagle raising a green flag for Midleton , they quickly wiped out that advantage early in the second-half with Nagle bagging his second goal . The match was delicately poised when the teams were deadlocked in the finale but Midleton finished strongly with Lehane 's scoring heroics central to that period of dominance .  The remaining quarter-finals will take place over the course of this weekend .  TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.