Donald Cerrone Once Again Proves He Is Willing To Fight Anyone ...
http://www.punditarena.com/mmaufc/sraftery/cowboy-cerrone-proves/

Donald Cerrone wants to fight . He wants to fight you . He wants to fight me . He wants to fight everybody . He wants to fight anybody . He will do it on a couple of weeks notice . He will do it on a couple of days notice . Hell , he will do it on a couple of hours notice .  Cerrone has become famed in recent years for his hyperactivity and his willingness to dive headlong into fights on short notice . The line " I know a guy " has become something of a social media catchphrase for ' Cowboy ' and he throws it out there every time there is even a hint that the UFC might be looking to replace an injured or otherwise debilitated fighter .  Cerrone 's ever-burning need to punch faces was once again evident in a text message exchange with UFC president Dana White on Friday , a screenshot of which White posted to Instagram shortly after .  Though the promotion has yet to officially acknowledge it , CB Dolloway may be 203 -- that is at least what is implied in the texts between White and Cerrone .  Folks , in case you are n't aware , Barroso is a LIGHT-HEAVYWEIGHT ! While Cerrone is a welterweight who campaigned at lightweight until this year . And , just as importantly , the show was about 24 hours away at the time of this exchange .  Now , maybe Cerrone is just having a little fun , but White did n't seem to be taking it that way , as he begged the question " Who is better , crazier or more BAD ASS than @cowboycerrone ? "  UFC Vice President of Public Relations , Athlete Marketing and Development , Dave Sholler also tweeted this out shortly afterwards .  Does White 's post add weight to a recent report that Cerrone 's scheduled UFC 205 opponent Robbie Lawler has withdrawn from their fight ? It 's hard to imagine that the Jackson-Wink fighter would be volunteering to do something like this if he had such a big showdown to look forward to in a couple of months .