Koeman's Everton were able to convincingly beat Sunderland with ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/sport/soccer/soccer-news/koemans-everton-were-able-convincingly-8841050

former holland international complained the toffees players were not fit enough when he took over but things look to have improved  get daily news by email  ronald koeman has made a remarkable start to his managerial reign at everton .  koeman rode out a potentially difficult summer , quickly made himself at home at goodison park and steered everton into the upper reaches of the premier league table .  dutchman koeman raised a few eyebrows when he swapped southampton for everton but perhaps that underlines the potential of one of english football 's great clubs .  for too long , everton have slipped behind while their merseyside rivals liverpool , the manchester powerhouses and london clubs like chelsea , arsenal and tottenham have improved and progressed .  getty  jordan pickford of sunderland looks dejected as romelu lukaku of everton celebrates scoring their third goal  but everton now have a wealthy backer in iranian businessman farhad moshiri as well as a loyal fan base and the makings of a good squad .  koeman has also brought his experience from predecessor roberto martinez 's reign turned sour last season .  former holland international koeman complained the players were not fit enough when he took over and , in the space of the first month of the season , their levels have improved .  from hanging on against tottenham on the opening day , everton were able to convincingly beat sunderland last monday with late goals which proves they now have more stamina .  the big test for koeman in the summer was about having two players whose futures were uncertain as john stones wanted to leave and was a target for manchester city .  getty images  john stones was sold to manchester city  they also have romelu lukaku and everton simply could not have afforded to lose both . they eventually sold stones for ? 47m to city but scared off potential suitors for lukaku by putting a ? 65m price tag on his head .  everton have gained a tough reputation in the transfer market and getting a big price for stones and also keeping lukaku now looks good business .  they from aston villa and , despite being in a relegated team last season , has quickly impressed at everton and only cost ? 7m .  on top of that , everton showed ambition by paying crystal palace an incredible ? 30m for yannick bolasie and koeman 's next challenge will be to get him to perform on a consistent basis .  there is no doubt that koeman could have stayed at southampton and waited for potentially bigger clubs to come in with arsenal possibly looking to replace arsene wenger next summer and there is an obvious link with his former club barcelona .  but koeman 's decision to take the everton job shows their standing in the game remains high and also that the dutchman believes they have even more potential in the future .