7 potential match-ups to savour in Sunday's All-Ireland senior ...
http://www.the42.ie/7-match-ups-all-ireland-football-final-dublin-mayo-2980516-Sep2016/

1 . Lee Keegan ( Mayo ) v Diarmuid Connolly ( Dublin )  There 's plenty of history between this pair and more fireworks lie in store if they trot into each other 's path .  Keegan and Connolly were involved in the semi-final flashpoint that saw the Dublin player red-carded last year . Connolly was freed on appeal for the replay and the Dubs edged over the line .  2 . Brian Fenton ( Dublin ) v Seamus O'Shea ( Mayo )  Fenton is a force of nature for Dublin at midfield and Mayo need to get their match-up right here .  Seamus O'Shea is arguably their most mobile midfielder and while there 's surely a temptation to drop his brother Aidan back to track Fenton , Seamus is the man who 'll probably go toe-to-toe with last year 's All-Ireland final man-of-the-match.  3 . Jonny Cooper ( Dublin ) v Andy Moran ( Mayo )  Source : Cathal Noonan/INPHO  Moran was exceptional in Mayo 's semi-final victory over Tipperary but he 's coming up against one of collapse , Cooper looks nailed on for an All-Star and if he can stop Moran exerting a big influence on Sunday , he 'll claim the individual accolade and possibly put himself in the frame for the Footballer of the Year award . Moran , however , is one of the best in the business at getting out in front of his man and collecting possession .  Expect plenty of ball going in the direction of the veteran forward .  4 . Philly McMahon ( Dublin ) v Aidan O'Shea ( Mayo )  Source : Lorraine O'Sullivan/INPHO  Another pair with history look set to collide at some point in proceedings . McMahon 's mobility and versatility would see him tailor-made for a man-marking role on one of Mayo 's biggest threats .  O'Shea can play in a variety of positions but so too can McMahon . And as we saw when the sides clashed last year , McMahon 's foraging runs forward caused Mayo all sorts of problems . Allowing McMahon free to patrol O'Shea would leave the Mayo man in a position where he 'll attacking , responsibilities .  5 . Keith Higgins ( Mayo ) v Ciaran Kilkenny ( Dublin )  Source : Cathal Noonan/INPHO  Higgins is Mayo 's man for all seasons and was superb against Tipperary in the All-Ireland semi-final . Mayo boss Stephen Rochford will surely have noticed how well Kerry 's Paul Murphy did in a man-marking role on Dublin play-maker Ciaran Kilkenny and may well deploy Higgins to do a similar job .  Kilkenny has been pulling the strings in Dublin 's attack this summer but was kept relatively quiet by Kerry . Still , Dublin have so many attacking options that even if three of their six forwards were kept quiet , the other three can cause serious damage and there are also reinforcements to call upon from the bench .  6 . Brendan Harrison ( Mayo ) v Bernard Brogan ( Dublin )  Harrison made his senior debut in 2014 and has settled in nicely at right corner back on the Mayo team . A player who goes about his business with minimum fuss , Harrison continues to grow in stature but  Brogan was man-of-the-match in the 2013 final between the counties , scoring two poacher 's goals on the day . He 's a man for the big occasion and will look to expose any potential defensive naivety from Mayo .  7 . David Byrne ( Dublin ) v Cillian O'Connor ( Mayo )  While Mayo will hope that Brendan Harrison can win his patch against Bernard Brogan , Dublin will similarly bank on young David Byrne getting the better of Mayo 's scorer-in-chief Cillian O'Connor . With Rory O'Carroll departed from Dublin 's full-back line , Byrne has taken the chance to slot in and capture a corner back position , with Jonny Cooper moving to the central position .  Byrne ( 22 ) is already the holder of two All-Ireland SFC medals and while the former U21 medallist might be relatively lacking in years , he can still boast plenty of experience . O'Connor is a wily forward , however , and after leading the championship scoring charts for the last three seasons , he 's second behind Dean Rock in 2016 .  TheJournal.ie is and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.