Grime artist Skepta takes Mercury Prize in shock win over David Bowie
http://www.independent.ie/style/celebrity/celebrity-news/grime-artist-skepta-takes-mercury-prize-in-shock-win-over-david-bowie-35053366.html

he collected the ? 25,000 prize for his fourth studio album konnichiwa at a prize-giving ceremony at the eventim apollo in hammersmith , west london on thursday night .  the album was released on his self-run record label boy better know which he set up with his brother jme in 2005 .  skepta , from tottenham , north london , dedicated the win to his mother and used the victory as a cry for young people to express themselves .  " shout out to my mum . i love you - you are the reason . i would n't be here without you so thank you very much mum , you can dance as much as you want . "  the self-proclaimed king of grime said he wanted to use the prize money to do something positive to help people feel " happy and free " .  he added : " i want them young people to be themselves . "  the win caps a momentous year for grime music which has seen a resurgence after it first appeared in the for his record boy in da corner .  skepta said he thinks the win will mean " more people are going to listen to grime " but added he wanted to inspire other genres too .  " i would n't say it 's a grime revolution . this is a really good time for grime but i think this is a revolution for freedom . not just in music . "  skepta was joined on the 12-strong shortlist by fellow grime artist kano who earlier said it was " crazy " for the pair to be nominated .  the duo started their careers playing their music on london 's infamous underground pirate radio stations .  " we could have never imagined we 'd be here nominated amongst some of the people that are nominated today . it feels like a real landmark year in our genre 's history . it 's a big moment for us both , " said kano .  skepta also paid tribute after his win to bowie , whose album blackstar - which explores the themes of illness , death and 69th birthday and just two days before he died from cancer .  he said : " every artist should be just striving to put out the best work that they can do because anything can happen . you can go any time which is the reason i said rest in peace to david bowie . "  the ceremony had earlier paid tribute to bowie with blackstar track lazarus being performed by dexter star michael c hall who is launching a stage production of the same name in london next month .  blackstar was joined on the shortlist by laura mvula for her record the dreaming room , making time by jamie woon , made in the manor by kano , love &amp; hate by michael kiwanuka , channel the spirits by the comet is coming , anohni 's hopelessness , adore life by savages the 1975 's i like it when you sleep , for you are so beautiful yet so unaware of it , radiohead 's a moon shaped pool and the bride by bat for lashes .  this was reduced to a final six during , kiwanuka , mvula and eventual winner skepta .  former winners of the prestigious prize include james blake , pulp and arctic monkeys . last year benjamin clementine triumphed for his debut album at least for now .  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .