All Ireland Coastal Rowing Championships returns to Donegal in ...
http://www.donegalnow.com/news/all-ireland-coastal-rowing-championships-returns-to-donegal-in-2017-major-boost-for-the-county/117555

all ireland coastal rowing championships returns to donegal in 2017 - major boost for the county  by siobhan mcnamara 13:42 friday 16th of september 2016  the all ireland coastal rowing championship is to return to donegal . the irish coastal rowing federation made the decision based on the highly successful championships in ballyshannon last month . mr. bill deasy , president of the irish coastal rowing federation said : " i am delighted to be returning to ballyshannon next year . we had a tremendous 2016 championships and given the feedback which we received from our clubs , i look forward to coming back in greater numbers in 2017 . " i would like to thank the committee and members of donegal bay rowing club for their courage and enthusiasm in inviting us back and i am confident that they will host an even better championships next year . " donegal bay rowing club came in for a lot of praise from the local community , both for the success of the event and the professional manner in which it was staged . the 2016 august were a resounding success and a welcome boost for the area . hotels and b&amp;bs in south donegal were booked out , many on the day on which the championship venue was first announced . cllr barry o'neill told the september meeting of the donegal municipal district : " the local businesses were very happy with the championships . well done to the organising committee . they did a great job getting ready for this , out in the dark evenings marking out the course . " the hospitality businesses in particular had a good weekend . " other councillors present also commended the trojan work of the small , voluntary committee for their efforts in staging such a major event . it is expected that the benefits will be felt long into the future , with thousands of participating rowers and their families having visited donegal for the first time . chairperson of donegal bay rowing club seamus maguire said the feedback from the visitors was excellent , with many of them saying they hoped to return to donegal . " we know what we have here but it " he said . " there were people there from all round the coast of ireland , from as far away as kerry , cork and waterford and they all loved it . " the 2017 all-ireland coastal rowing championships will take place in the lakeside centre , ballyshannon , co . donegal on friday , saturday and sunday , august 18 to 20 , 2017 .  if you have a story or want to send a photo or video to us please contact the donegal now editorial team . between 9am and 5pm monday to sunday please call 074 9112712 . between 5pm and midnight please call or text 086 792 2103 . or you can email news@donegalnow.com at any time .