'Don't scrap the USC - it's one of the fairest and most progressive ...
http://www.thejournal.ie/readme/universal-social-charge-scrap-opinion-3027148-Oct2016/

David Gibney writes that if you scrap the USC , the revenue must be found elsewhere or we will face deteriorated public services .  And the reason why is because people know it 's one of the fairest and most progressive taxes in Ireland and could go a long way to solving our housing , education and healthcare crisis .  Ahead of last year 's Budget , an Irish Times MRBI Poll asked the question : How should the Government spend the promised ? 1.5bn in the budget ?  27% answered saying investment in healthcare -- including the hiring of nurses and doctors .  A further 31% said they wanted the government to scrap water charges , increase funding for education , increase social welfare , increase the state pension , invest in childcare , invest in back-to-work schemes and create employment and invest in roads .  12% said they wanted investment in housing .  Only 8% said they wanted to cut or scrap the USC .  Despite this , the government cut USC and did n't sufficiently invest in healthcare crisis this year .  Last week , ahead of Budget 2017 -- where the USC was cut by 0.5% across the three lowest bands -- another MRBI poll revealed that only 10% wanted a cut in the USC , whereas 72% prioritise higher spending on public services , particularly health care .  So why all the talk of cutting USC ?  The USC raises ? 4 billion in revenue every year and is the most progressive income tax -- meaning the higher your income , the more you pay .  It is so progressive that 75% of the USC raised ( ? 3bn ) comes from the top 20% of earners and 43% comes from those earning more than ? 100,000 .  The simple fact of the matter is , if you scrap the USC then that revenue must be found elsewhere or we will all face deteriorated public services .  Documents recently drawn up by the Department of Finance for the Irish Government explained options available for the replacement of the USC :  Increased take on property and capital taxes , including and increasing stamp duty on shares  An increase in indirect taxes including VAT and excise on petrol and diesel ( by ? 0.18 per litre ) , and beer ( by ? 1.50 per pint )  The USC is a progressive tax , therefore abolition of , or substantial reductions in the USC would be regressive . For example if the USC were abolished a person on minimum wage would benefit by ? 316 , whereas an employee earning ? 150,000 would benefit by over ? 9,500 .  The reason for such a high contribution from high earners is because the USC has very few tax avoidance loopholes for the wealthy to exploit , unlike income tax . Low paid workers can not avail of income tax loopholes because many of them do not earn enough to pay tax in the first place .  Furthermore , the list of representative bodies opposed to tax cuts is growing . The Irish Congress of Trade Unions ( ICTU ) has opposed a cut in the USC , as has employers ' group IBEC .  Also , in recent has publicly warned of the dangers of tax cuts at a time of economic growth , where there are rising levels of personal consumption and retail sales combined with an acceleration in employment growth :  " This suggests that economic activity does not need to be further stimulated by reducing personal taxation levels . "  Squeezed middle  So why is it the narrative that we should cut the USC ? Well , abolishing the USC would benefit the highest earners most who tend to have louder voices than low income households or the actual ' squeezed middle ' .  For instance , abolishing the USC would mean a substantial increase in take home pay for many people who do not depend on public services :  A TD would benefit by ? 4,523 ;  A government Minister by ? 10,145 ;  The Taoiseach would benefit by ? 12,370 ;  RTE 's highest paid presenter , Ryan Tubridy , would benefit by ? 37,142 ;  Richie Boucher -- CEO of Bank of Ireland -- would benefit by ? 64,982 :  Meanwhile , an ' benefit ' by ? 668 .  The cuts to the USC in Budget 2017 will mean a net benefit to a worker on ? 70,000 of ? 353 , whereas a retail worker on ? 25,000 per year will only benefit by one third of that figure -- ? 128 .  Combined with the cuts to USC last year , a worker on ? 70,000 is now ? 1,255 better off , whereas someone earning ? 25,000 is only ? 355 better off .  However , it is the retail worker who can not afford private healthcare , private pensions and private housing options . To illustrate this point further , the USC allows the State to hire two nurses based on Richie Boucher 's contribution alone . Without those nurses , low-paid workers would no doubt receive reduced care levels while relying on public health services .  What should be done with the USC ?  Fine Gael Minister for Public Expenditure Pascal O Donohue(R) with Minister for Finance Michael Noonan at the final press conference about the Budget Source : RollingNews.ie  In terms makes sense to continue the USC but the income from it should be ring-fenced to provide better vital public services in health , education , housing , transport and also social security .  Rather than scrap the USC , as has been proposed by Fine Gael , over the next five years , the USC 's ? 4 billion in revenue could be invested to do all of these :  Initiate a public housing programme and build an extra 6,000 homes per year for the next five years ( ? 1bn approximately ) .  Increase funding for water services by ? 500m allowing the scrapping of domestic water charges which was set to raise only ? 271m per year .  Increase funding for the public healthcare system by ? 1 billion which could help to eliminate waiting lists and save lives .  Increase funding for education by ? 1bn which would allow us to reduce our class sizes from the highest in the EU with 25 pupils per teacher , to a target of the EU average of 20 .  The remaining revenue could be transport , among other areas in dire need of investment .  So the question for us all is , what type of society do we want to live in ?  One where we cut taxes that will disproportionately benefit the wealthiest in our society at the expense of those who rely on public services and social protection ? Or one where we ask the richest to contribute that little bit more so that we can protect the most vulnerable and have decent public services ?  David Gibney is communications officer with Mandate Trade Union and a Right2Water coordinator .  TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.