At The Centre Of It All: The History Of The Rugby Ball
http://www.punditarena.com/rugby/pwassell/at-the-centre-of-it-all-the-history-of-the-rugby-ball/

at the centre of it all : the history of the rugby ball  it has witnessed thousands of moments of pure brilliance , been the source of controversy throughout rugby 's history and ultimately contributes to the uniqueness of the sport we all adore .  the humble rugby ball , formerly known as a ' quanco ' , is iconic in the game for its odd shape , completely different to almost every other sport . whilst cricket , football , tennis and more use traditional spheres for their playing equipment , the rugby ball is an ' elongated ellipsoid ' or basically oval .  so why does the sport employ such a strange-shaped object ? well , it turns out the ellipsoid makes it easier to pass with . having said that , some of the world 's best players have made it seem like a doddle to kick such a bizarrely crafted ball . yet there are some other curious reasons as to how the modern day ball evolved .  the history of the rugby ball goes back to some of where richard lindon and bernardo solano used pigs ' bladders and leather casings . the original rugby balls were more plum shaped than oval . the pig 's bladder was inflated by mouth via the stem of a clay pipe then surrounded by panels of stitched leather , and the ball was not of a uniform size due to the variations in pig bladders used .  lindon opened his first boot and shoemaker business at 6/6a lawrence sheriff street , rugby , england , straight across the road from the now famous rugby school . originally , lindon supplied footwear to the people of rugby , including staff and students at the school .  lindon 's wife was responsible for inflating the pigs ' bladders . unfortunately , this job did n't exactly meet current health and safety standards ; if the bladder was diseased , this was going into mrs lindon 's lungs . eventually mrs lindon fell ill as a result and later passed away .  roughly around 1862 richard lindon was desperate to find a replacement for the pig 's bladder and used an india inflate by mouth and so having been inspired by air syringes , he created a larger brass version to inflate his rugby balls .  the rugby school wanted an oval ball produced to further distinguish their game from that of soccer football , so lindon designed a more egg-shaped buttonless ball to be manufactured . this was the first specifically designed four-panel rugby ball and the start of sizes being standardised . in 1892 the rfu made it compulsory for all rugby balls to be oval in shape .  continue reading below  make sure to check the latest episode of our weekly rugby podcast , the oval office , where we look ahead to the championship cup , review the rugby championship and we catch up with ireland prop jack mcgrath .  at the same time as all this was happening , gilbert were manufacturing rugby balls to be used at rugby school and by 1877 the family business was hand-stitching over 2,800 balls a year . ' gilberts ' then began exporting their balls to australia as the sport itself was growing .  the gilbert most international teams and by 1970 the company began to manufacture the balls in white as well as the traditional leather colour previously used .  eventually , in 1980 leather casings were replaced with synthetic materials in times of poor weather conditions , including the new gilbert ' barbarian ' ball . however , all leather balls were later phased out .  in 1994 gilbert first began using the coloured ' trims ' that have become so iconic in the sport of rugby . their rugby balls have been used in every rugby world cup since 1995 .  other businesses have also forayed into the rugby ball market with adidas , mitre and webb ellis all making headway in particular tournaments and competitions , but for many the gilbert brand remains synonymous with rugby and rugby balls .  the humble rugby ball is just a small footnote in the glorious history of the sport , but its past really is fascinating . it will continue to change and to evolve , just as the game does , but it 's come an awfully long way since its heineken rugby club celebrates and rewards real supporters who make the game what it is.