St Kiernan's romp home to first London title
http://www.irishtimes.com/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/st-kiernan-s-romp-home-to-first-london-title-1.2840451

By using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .  St Kiernan 's romp home to first London title  Michael Callery was instrumental in stopping Tir Chonnaill Gaels from claiming a 17th title  about 12 hours ago  St Kiernan 's landed the London Senior Football Championship title for the first time in their 31-year history with a seven-point win over defending champions Tir Chonaill Gaels in Greenford on Sunday . Photo : Inpho  St Kiernan 's 0-12 Tir Chonaill Gaels 0-05  St Kiernan 's landed the London Senior Football Championship title for the first time in their 31-year history with a seven-point win over defending champions Tir Chonaill Gaels in Greenford on Sunday .  The Gaels were bidding for a record 17th title and a third in a row in what was their fifth consecutive appearance in the final , but the London heavyweights were outpunched from start to finish .  Michael Callery was instrumental in the first half , scoring two sublime points from play captain Adrian Moyles , Liam O'Donoghue and Michael Donaghue .  John McGrath ( free ) and Stuart Johnson kept TCG in it but at 0-06 to 0-02 down at half-time , they never looked like taking control of the game , especially with the breeze against them in the second half .  The Gaels -- managed by Wexford native Lloyd Colfer in his first year in charge -- desperately needed a second half goal but , in truth , it never looked like coming as they struggled with Kiernan 's possession game .  Moyles and Michael O'Donaghue were the stars of the second half as Kiernan 's dominated , racking up a nine-point lead heading into stoppage time before Adrian Hanlon and substitute Dillon Ward somewhat spared TCG 's blushes with two late scores to reduce the deficit .  We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community , including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication .