Patrickswell end 13-year wait for Limerick hurling title with a 19-point ...
http://www.the42.ie/patrickswell-limerick-hurling-title-3042536-Oct2016/

ballybrown had no answer at the gaelic grounds this afternoon .  patrickswell 1-26 ballybrown 1-7  they are one of the aristocrats of limerick club hurling but patrickswell have had to endure a barren spell in recent years .  since winning the county final in 2003 they endured frustration in trying to claim silverware , not least when losing out by a point in the 2015 decider to the eventual all-ireland champions na piarsaigh .  but the ' well are back on top of limerick hurling after demolishing ballybrown by 19-points to take the honours in today 's decider at the gaelic grounds .  captain thomas o'brien lifts the trophy  the gary kirby-managed side unleashed a terrific display to capture the title with ten different players contributing on the scoreboard .  aaron gillane top scored with 0-7 with limerick seniors diarmuid byrnes ( 0-6 ) and cian lynch ( 0-3 ) also doing their bit . full-forward kevin o'brien notched their only goal while veteran barry foley also chipped in with a point .  patrickswell substitutes celebrate their victory  goal in the 13th minute helping them go in front 1-6 to 0-2 after the opening quarter and they possessed a 1-10 to 0-5 advantage at the break .  there was no respite in the second-half as patrickswell accelerated further clear to be ahead 1-19 to 0-6 entering the final quarter .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.