Robin Williams' widow makes moving speech on their wedding ...
https://www.sundayworld.com/style/showbiz/robin-williams-widow-makes-moving-speech-on-their-wedding-anniversary

robin williams ' widow susan schneider marked their wedding anniversary by accepting an award on behalf of her late husband on saturday night ( 22oct16 ) .  the actor and comedian , who committed suicide in august , 2014 , aged 63 , was posthumously presented with the 2016 angel harvey heart of a patriot award by the united service organizations ( uso ) . susan was on hand at the ceremony in chicago , illinois , which was held on the same day as the uso of illinois ' 75th anniversary , as well as what would have been her and robin 's fifth anniversary .  robin was recognised for his contributions to entertaining troops , as well as being the first ever celebrity to do a tour of duty .  in a moving speech as she collected the award , susan told the crowd : " i 'm here with you tonight because of my husband 's heart . robin absolutely had the heart of a patriot . i can not think of a more fitting award for him , nor one in the presence of all of you . robin was also a warrior , and like so many of our finest servicemen and women he had battles to face .  " robin honoured the values woven into the fabric of a soldier 's heart . loyalty , duty , service and respect - he himself embodied these qualities and this was his connection to the hearts within all of you . "  susan spoke at length about her late husband 's battle with lewy body dementia - a common form of dementia that has similar characteristics to both alzheimer 's and parkinson 's diseases .  as she explained his health struggles , susan compared them to the journey a soldier goes through .  " the parallels in his journey with that of a soldier 's are unmistakable , " she continued . " i imagine many people ca n't begin to understand the intricacies of the battles you 've fought as a soldier , or are fighting now . you may not even know the whole picture yourself , just your current mission . work in the pressures are so overwhelming - life or death - that you just have to focus on the next right thing . "  now susan is working to raise funds for brain disease in memory of her late husband , telling the crowd the actor had " brought the light of dawn to a new mission for all of us . that mission is to eradicate brain disease . "  " today is your 75th anniversary , " she concluded . " today , october 22nd , is robin and my wedding anniversary too , and there 's no place i would rather be . it feels like robin wanted me here on this day to celebrate with all of you , with our best man bobcat goldthwait , and with our maid of honour jean horn . i also think my honey may have wanted me to put on a pretty dress and to just feel the love in this room tonight . "