'Sean won't sleep on his own anymore' - Mum of boy (9) left ...
http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/sean-wont-sleep-on-his-own-anymore-mum-of-boy-9-left-paralysed-after-shooting-says-son-is-living-in-fear-35156529.html

Sean Scully was playing with friends near his home in Croftwood Gardens , Ballyfermot , Dublin in June 2014 when a row broke out between a number of men living in the area .  The men left the scene , but returned with a handgun and fired at the intended target .  One bullet pierced through the boy 's body above his collar bone and ruptured the nerves in his neck , causing permanent damage to his spinal cord .  Sean was left permanently paralysed after the incident .  His mother Gillian told Independent.ie that she has been sleeping downstairs with Sean since the incident and says he regularly gets very frightened .  Sean Scully  " He is generally in good form , but gets very down at times .  " Sean is only nine and because of what happened he wo n't sleep on his own anymore . I have to sleep on the sofa beside him every night because he gets very frightened living here .  " We do n't want to extend our house and put stay here .  " We want to have a proper home and are trying to get the government to rehouse us because of the antisocial behaviour here .  " Sometimes he gets so frightened and can not go to sleep . He realises he 's restricted and can not run away from anything like he used to before .  " We had a meeting with the Minister for Justice recently where we tried to express our case , but there has been no result .  " We want to get out of here , but I would n't want to remove Sean from his school because they 're just brilliant to him , " she added .  Sports Officer with Dublin City Council and family friend of the Scully family Derek Ahern told Independent.ie that Sean 's struggle continues every day .  " Sean is always in really good spirits and is such a great young man , but not a lot is being done for him in terms of his rehabilitation , " he said .  " It seems like the tragic event government 's minds . The fact is that Sean is still here , but his struggle continues .  " His life , along with his family 's lives have totally turned upside down . They are still fighting this every day .  " People in power need to step up to the plate and do more for him . If he was coming from another area would his circumstances be different ? I think so . I just want to see him get a fair deal , " he said .  On Thursday , over ? 3,000 was raised for Sean in a football tournament held in the Ballyfermot Leisure Centre .  It was the tenth anniversary of the Ian Lyons Memorial 5-a-side tournament , which is held every year in memory of the 19-year-old man who was also Sean 's uncle .  The tournament was organised by Dublin City Council 's Sport and Wellbeing department in partnership with the FAI .  Mr Ahern added : " I 'm not a politician but I can at least try and use sport as a tool to a young lad from Cherry Orchard who was taken before his time .  " I used to work with him through football and his family were always very respected members of the community . We just felt like it was fitting to do something in his memory .  " Our aim is to send out a message to other young people in the community to stay on the right path in life , " he said .  Related Content  Your Comments  Comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . Comments must be concise and to the point . The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . The comment facility is removed after 48 hours .