Miracle baby who was removed from the womb for life-saving ...
http://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/health-features/miracle-baby-who-was-removed-from-the-womb-for-lifesaving-surgery-is-returned-and-born-again-three-months-later-35156535.html

baby lynlee boemer was born 12 weeks after doctors temporarily removed her from her mother 's uterus to operate on a life-threatening tumour , sacrococcygeal teratoma . the tumour , which was the same size as the foetus , was competing for the her mother 's blood flow which compromised the child 's growth and chance of survival .  the growth on the foetus ' tailbone was identified during a routine ultrasound , 16 weeks into her mother margaret 's pregnancy . the tumour was targeted in a five hour surgery in texas children 's foetal centre , which saw 1lb lynlee removed from the womb before being returned . twelve weeks later , the child was delivered via caesarean section on june 6 .  speaking to cnn , mum margaret from plano , texas said : " lynlee did n't have much of a chance . at 23 weeks , the tumour was shutting her heart down and causing her to go into cardiac failure , so it was a choice of allowing the tumour to take over her body or giving her a decision for us : we wanted to give her life , " said margaret .  eight days after lynlee 's arrival , the baby underwent further surgery to remove further fragments of the tumour , which had been missed during the initial surgery , but has since made a full recovery .  " it was her second birth basically , " said margaret .  " it was a relief to finally see her and to see that she had made it through after the open foetal surgery her heart had time to heal while i was still pregnant with her so she has no heart issues now and is just doing amazing . "  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .