Fabricio Werdum Loses UFC TV Gig Over Reebok 'Protest'
http://www.punditarena.com/mmaufc/sraftery/fabricio-werdum-loses-ufc-tv-gig-criticism-reebok/

on tuesday , fabricio werdum decided to make his feelings about the ufc 's exclusive apparel deal with sports clothing giant reebok known to the world .  werdum posted a picture of himself wearing a ufc t-shirt to instagram , but it had been photoshopped so that the reebok logo was replaced by the famous nike tick on the front of the garment . alongside the shot , the former ufc heavyweight champion had written " n ? o sou gen ? rico , sou @nike desde criancinha ! " , which translates to " i 'm not generic , i 'm nike since childhood ! "  on facebook later that day , the brazilian revealed that his post represented a protest of sorts .  " we used to get real good money , it was a lot different from reebok , " said werdum , who claimed that he was able to accumulate six-figure sums from sponsorship deals for every fight before the reebok era began . " today , with reebok there is a pay scale , if you have a certain course it 's good money , but nothing like it was before , so of course it was a protest ( via mmafighting ) . "  for his last octagon appearance , werdum 's athlete outfitting payout was $10,000 ( via mmajunkie ) .  werdum urged other fighters to speak out against the reebok deal as well , assuring them that they would not be punished for doing so .  it seems that werdum has been punished however . the kings mma representative , who faces cain velasquez in a highly-anticipated rematch at ufc 207 in las vegas on december 30th , revealed through another instagram post on friday that he will no longer be a part of the ufc 's spanish language broadcast team . werdum claimed that his removal was a direct response from the promotion to his rebellious social media activity .  it 's difficult to predict whether these events will encourage or discourage werdum 's peers from following his lead . the fact that he was punished could give those who were considering a protest of their own pause for thought , but the ufc 's treatment of a former champion in some quarters .  werdum last saw action at ufc 203 in september , when he scored a unanimous decision victory over travis browne . just four months prior to that win , the 39-year-old veteran lost the heavyweight title when he was knocked out inside a round by stipe miocic at ufc 198 in curitiba , brazil .