Who's Going To Drive You Home? The Advent Of Self-Driving Cars ...
http://www.mondaq.com/ireland/x/539252/new+technology/Whos+Going+to+Drive+You+Home+The+Advent+of+SelfDriving+Cars+in+Ireland

introduction  developers of driverless cars around the world are facing a major hurdle ; the absence of a legal framework that will allow their creations to be used on the road . this briefing note looks at how prepared ireland is for the testing and arrival of driverless cars .  the global picture  in the race towards driverless technology being available to the public , singapore is leading the field , with the first ever public trial of robo-taxi services launched in august 2016 . the company behind the trial ( nutonomy ) was the first company to get permission from the singapore government to test the cars in small public area , and has now begun tests with passengers . the cars are still manned by a driver during this testing phase , however , the company intends to roll out a fully automated taxi service once approved .  the united states has recently begun to prioritise the introduction of regulatory provisions in order to advance the development of self-driving cars . as of june 2016 , some sixteen states had introduced tended to take a cautious approach to the regulation of automated vehicles , subsequent revisions and reforms have revealed a willingness to put in place more progressive parameters .  in california , for example , fifteen companies currently hold permits to test driverless vehicles within the state . in 2015 , the california department of motor vehicles ( " dmv " ) released draft regulations for the public deployment of autonomous vehicles . these regulations included requirements that the autonomous vehicles had to have a driver capable of taking the wheel , eliminating the possibility of a fully driverless car . most recently the dmv indicated that the more advanced self-driving cars will no longer be required to have a licenced driver at the wheel if federal officials deem them sufficiently safe .  until recently , the absence of u.s government guidance had left the burden on state dmvs to manage the introduction of driverless technology , however , new federal guidelines ( issued jointly by the department of transportation and the national highway traffic safety administration ) on the testing and deployment of driverless cars have now been mechanics of regulation , they indicate that the department of transport will take responsibility for regulating the driving hardware and software , and have devised a model state policy which will relieve the pressure on individual state agencies .  the vienna convention  the 1968 vienna convention on road traffic is an accord among the participating members of the united nations which covers road traffic safety regulations .  one of the fundamental principles of the convention ( article 8 ) is the concept that the driver is fully in control and responsible for the behaviour of a vehicle in traffic . amendments have recently been made to the convention which allow for the use of automated driving technologies or " driver assistance systems " which transfer driving tasks to the vehicle , provided that these technologies do not breach the united nations general safety requirements for vehicles or can be overridden or switched off by the driver . this may be seen as the first step towards accommodating the concept of a driverless car within the convention framework . however , ireland is not a signatory to the vienna in this jurisdiction .  the eu approach  the european union is currently funding research on automated road transport as a priority . the focus of this research is on how data protection and cyber security can be managed and how liability issues will be solved . currently within the eu , deploying vehicles without a driver is only permitted by certain member states which have put in place domestic legislation legalising the testing of automated vehicles in restricted areas ( for example on approved test routes ) .  the domestic position  the behavioural laws in relation to driving in ireland are governed by the road traffic act , 1961 ( as amended ) and road traffic offences are enforceable by an garda s ? och ? na ( the irish police force ) . legislation is supplemented by guidance from the road safety authority ( the " rsa " ) , a statutory body formed by the irish government to promote road safety . legislation in ireland does not yet conceive of the possibility of an automated vehicle and there are no anticipated changes to legislation in been in place for a significant period of time is ( understandably ) aimed at what drivers are doing and seeking to ensure that drivers pay attention on the road . this includes requiring drivers to drive with due care and attention and not to drive a vehicle in a manner which is or is likely to be dangerous to the public . while one might argue that an automated vehicle means drivers do not need to " pay attention " and can not be " careless " , the reality is that the legislation does not contemplate what is proposed and that a new regime will be required .  challenges for industry  the management of liability for autonomous vehicles will be a very important factor in the success of the industry . as human drivers will have less ( or no ) control over the choices made by the autonomous vehicle , the liability for accidents will fall primarily on the manufacturer of the vehicle ( or its software developer ) . this is a shift from the current position which sees drivers shoulder liability for the majority fault with the car ) . regulators will need to consider whether it is fair that this new liability for autonomous vehicles should be borne solely by the manufacturer ( and they should also consider the likely impact that this will have on the cost of automated vehicles ) .  some thought is already being given to the potential ethical choices which will have to be programmed into the software which will govern the behaviour of the autonomous vehicle . those charged with programming the choices of autonomous vehicles will find themselves having to make choices in order to " optimise " the outcome of a certain crash . to illustrate the problem , some technological ethicists have drawn on the analogy of the classic trolley problem ? if a driverless car is certain to crash , should it be programmed to continue its course ( at the loss of several lives ) or divert its course in order to cause the loss of just a single life ? these are difficult ( perhaps impossible ) decisions for a manufacturer to make and might benefit from external guidance or regulation divergence in the approach to the arrival of driverless technology . widespread reform of domestic legislation in ireland will be required in order to introduce a framework which allows for the possibility of a driverless vehicle . aside from the complex legislative changes , there are a number of other issues which will impact this area .  difficulties in legislating will be compounded by the different approaches taken by manufacturers in relation to driverless technology . for example , while some developers are focussing on mapping routes ( google ) , others are exploring the possibility of smart streets ( incorporating sensors in roads and smart traffic lights systems ) in order to make the technology usable .  aside from the required legislative changes , there will also be an impact on infrastructure , for which many countries may be under prepared . notably , while there has been steady progress in legislation in the united states , few cities are considered to have incorporated autonomous vehicles into their long term planning processes .  this article contains a general summary of developments and is not a complete or be obtained where appropriate .  to print this article , all you need is to be registered on mondaq.com .  click to login as an existing user or register so you can print this article .  there has been a lot of hype around the impact of robotics software on financial services , and indeed on all service industries , but there is still a lack of clarity around what this genre of software can do .  this service is completely free . access 250,000 archived articles from 100+ countries and get a personalised email twice a week covering developments ( and yes , our lawyers like to think you ? ve read our disclaimer ) .  email address  company name  password  confirm password  mondaq topics -- select your interests  accounting  anti-trust  commercial  consumer  criminal  employment  energy  environment  family  finance  government  healthcare  immigration  insolvency  insurance  international  ip  law performance  law practice  litigation  media &amp; it  privacy  real estate   regions  africa  asia  asia pacific  australasia  canada  caribbean  europe  european union  latin america  middle east  u.k.  united states  worldwide updates  check to state you have read and agree to our terms and conditions  terms &amp; conditions and privacy statement  mondaq.com ( the website ) is owned and managed by mondaq ltd and as a user you are granted a non-exclusive , revocable license to access the website under its terms and conditions of use . your use of the website constitutes your agreement to the following terms and conditions of use . mondaq ltd may terminate your use of the website if you are in breach of these terms and conditions or if mondaq ltd decides to terminate your license of use for whatever reason .  use of www.mondaq.com  you may use the website but are required to register as a user if you wish to read the full text of the content and articles available ( the content ) . you may not modify , publish , transmit , transfer or , perform , link , display , or in any way exploit any of the content , in whole or in part , except as expressly permitted in these terms &amp; conditions or with the prior written consent of mondaq ltd . you may not use electronic or other means to extract details or information about mondaq.com ? s content , users or contributors in order to offer them any services or products which compete directly or indirectly with mondaq ltd ? s services and products .  disclaimer  mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers make no representations about the suitability of the information contained in the documents and related graphics published on this server for any purpose . all such documents and related graphics are provided " as is " without warranty of any kind . mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions with regard to this information , including all implied warranties and conditions of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , title and non-infringement . in no event shall mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers be liable for any special , loss of use , data or profits , whether in an action of contract , negligence or other tortious action , arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of information available from this server .  the documents and related graphics published on this server could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors . changes are periodically added to the information herein . mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers may make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described herein at any time .  registration  mondaq ltd requires you to register and provide information that personally identifies you , including what sort of information you are interested in , for three primary purposes :  to allow you to personalize the mondaq websites you are visiting .  to enable features such as password reminder , newsletter alerts , email a colleague , and linking from mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) to your website .  mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) do not sell or provide your details to third parties other than information providers . the reason we provide can measure the response their articles are receiving and provide you with information about their products and services .  if you do not want us to provide your name and email address you may opt out by clicking here .  if you do not wish to receive any future announcements of products and services offered by mondaq by clicking here .  information collection and use  we require site users to register with mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) to view the free information on the site . we also collect information from our users at several different points on the websites : this is so that we can customise the sites according to individual usage , provide ' session-aware ' functionality , and ensure that content is acquired and developed appropriately . this gives us an overall picture of our user profiles , which in turn shows to our editorial contributors the type of person they are reaching by posting articles on mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) ? meaning more free content for registered users .  we are only able to provide the site free to site visitors because we can pass on information about the pages that users are viewing and the personal information users provide to us ( e.g. email addresses ) to reputable contributing firms such as law firms who author those pages . we do not sell or rent information to anyone else other than the authors of those pages , who may change from time to time . should you wish us not to disclose your details to any of these parties , please tick the box above or tick the box marked " opt out of registration information disclosure " on the your profile page . we and our author organisations may only contact you via email or other means if you allow us to do so . users can opt out of contact when they register on the site , or send an email to unsubscribe@mondaq.com with ? no disclosure ? in the subject heading  mondaq news alerts  in order to receive mondaq news alerts , users have to complete a separate registration form . this is a personalised service where users choose regions and users who have requested it . users can stop receiving these alerts by going to the mondaq news alerts page and deselecting all interest areas . in the same way users can amend their personal preferences to add or remove subject areas .  cookies  a cookie is a small text file written to a user ? s hard drive that contains an identifying user number . the cookies do not contain any personal information about users . we use the cookie so users do not have to log in every time they use the service and the cookie will automatically expire if you do not visit the mondaq website ( or its affiliate sites ) for 12 months . we also use the cookie to personalise a user 's experience of the site ( for example to show information specific to a user 's region ) . as the mondaq sites are fully personalised and cookies are essential to its core technology the site will function unpredictably with browsers that do not support cookies - or where cookies are disabled ( in these circumstances we advise you to attempt ) . however if you are concerned about the presence of a mondaq cookie on your machine you can also choose to expire the cookie immediately ( remove it ) by selecting the ' log off ' menu option as the last thing you do when you use the site .  some of our business partners may use cookies on our site ( for example , advertisers ) . however , we have no access to or control over these cookies and we are not aware of any at present that do so .  links  this web site contains links to other sites . please be aware that mondaq ( or its affiliate sites ) are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites . we encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of these third party sites . this privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site .  surveys &amp; contests  from time-to-time our site requests information from users via surveys or contests . participation in these surveys or contests whether or not to disclose any information requested . information requested may include contact information ( such as name and delivery address ) , and demographic information ( such as postcode , age level ) . contact information will be used to notify the winners and award prizes . survey information will be used for purposes of monitoring or improving the functionality of the site .  mail-a-friend  if a user elects to use our referral service for informing a friend about our site , we ask them for the friend ? s name and email address . mondaq stores this information and may contact the friend to invite them to register with mondaq , but they will not be contacted more than once . the friend may contact mondaq to request the removal of this information from our database .  security  this website takes every reasonable precaution to protect our users ? information . when users submit sensitive information via the website , your information is protected using firewalls and other security technology . if you have any questions about the security at our website , you information  if a user ? s personally identifiable information changes ( such as postcode ) , or if a user no longer desires our service , we will endeavour to provide a way to correct , update or remove that user ? s personal data provided to us . this can usually be done at the ? your profile ? page or by sending an email to **27;344;toolong .  notification of changes  if we decide to change our terms &amp; conditions or privacy policy , we will post those changes on our site so our users are always aware of what information we collect , how we use it , and under what circumstances , if any , we disclose it . if at any point we decide to use personally identifiable information in a manner different from that stated at the time it was collected , we will notify users by way of an email . users will have a choice as to whether or not we use their information in this different manner . we will use information in accordance with the privacy policy under which  if for some reason you believe mondaq ltd. has not adhered to these principles , please notify us by e-mail at problems@mondaq.com and we will use commercially reasonable efforts to determine and correct the problem promptly .