Sunderland 1-4 Arsenal: Player Ratings As Moyes' Boys Suffer Late ...
http://www.punditarena.com/football/english-football/sokeefe/sunderland-arsenal-player-ratings/

arsenal took on sunderland at the stadium of light knowing that a point would see them return , temporarily at least , to the top of the premier league table .  sunderland , for their part , were looking to avoid the ignominy of having the worse record after ten games than any side in premier league history .  once the visitors took the lead after 20 minutes , courtesy of alexis s ? nchez after a fine team move , this game was becoming a procession for arsenal .  however , such is the danger of a tight lead , sunderland equalised just after the hour mark through a jermain defoe penalty after petr cech brought duncan watmore down in the box .  arsenal restored their lead several minutes later as substitute olivier giroud scored with his first touch of the game , and by god did the floodgates open then . giroud added his second from another header on the 76th minute , before alexis doubled his own tally less than two minutes later after some shocking sunderland defending .  trouble while arsenal go top once more .  sunderland player ratings :  jordan pickford -- 4 : started well , but his confidence eroded throughout the match and then the mistakes started happening .  billy jones -- 4.5 : might as well have stayed in the dressing room at half time . jones was lucky that iwobi was having an off-day , bur gibbs punished him at every opportunity .  lamine kon ? -- 4 : lost alexis for the goal , got away with a foul on the forward in the box right before the equaliser . pathetic performance .  john o'shea -- 5 : withdrawn through injury before half time , sparing him the headache of dealing with arsenal 's pacey attack in the second half .  patrick van aanholt -- 4.5 : lost oxlade-chamberlain for the opener , and looked to be in a mild panic whenever he had the ball .  jack rodwell -- 4 : sunderland have n't won in the 33 league games rodwell has started . not to suggest that 's his fault per se , but didier ndong -- 5 : earns a 5 for bombing forward looking to create something at times in the game , but he did so aimlessly.