Blow for in-form Ireland U21 international defender as injury rules ...
http://www.the42.ie/tommie-hoban-blackburn-3061619-Nov2016/

blow for in-form ireland u21 international defender as injury rules him out for at least 3 months  tommie hoban has suffered another injury setback .  blackburn rovers defender tommie hoban looks like he has played his last match of 2016 , after dislocating his shoulder in training .  the centre-back , who is on a season-long loan from watford , has been one of blackburn 's standout performers this season , despite owen coyle 's side struggling at the bottom of the division .  " tommie hoban requires surgery on his shoulder given the extent of the damage , " coyle told the club 's official website .  " watford , as his parent club , wanted to look at that as well , so with that in mind tommie will undergo surgery on monday .  " so it will be an extended period of time with the best case scenario you are looking at is something like three months , so we 'll just have to wait and see how that one goes .  " that is a blow club . but he is mentally strong , so we 'll make sure he is well cared for and in a good place physically and mentally and try and build that up .  " he 'll still be able to do some work given that it is a shoulder injury , but what we do know is that when he is back and available we 'll have a wonderful young player to come into our team . "  hoban , who has featured 10 times in the championship for blackburn this season , played a key role in watford 's promotion to the premier league during the 2014-15 campaign , but several injuries has hampered his progress since then .  fellow irish defender , derrick williams who joined the club on a permanent basis from bristol city , at the same time as hoban , was ruled out for up to six weeks last week due to a hamstring injury .  hoban is also joined at ewood park by irish pair darragh lenihan and anthony stokes , as well as jack byrne , who is on-loan at has n't featured since september .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does external websites.