Women lured robbery victim with promise of a threesome
http://www.eveningecho.ie/cork-news/women-lured-robbery-victim-promise-threesome/2561079/

Women lured robbery victim with promise of a threesome  TWO young women lured a middle-aged man from a chip shop to a nearby bedroom on the promise of ' a threesome ' and when he declined to participate his pants was removed by force as he was beaten and robbed .  One of the women involved in this and a second similar incident on the same night was jailed for three years yesterday with the last 18 months of the sentence suspended . Judge Se ? n ? Donnabh ? in described the nature of both attacks as gross and continuous . He imposed the sentence yesterday on Mary Williamson , aged 23 , who now lives in Kildare but lived at Slip Heights and George 's Row in Bantry , County Cork , at the time of the crimes five years ago . Sentencing had been adjourned but Williamson jumped bail and was only recently arrested by warrant in Kildare and brought before Cork Circuit Criminal Court yesterday . Garda Eoin Concannon said on that occasion that Williamson and another woman lured the man in Bantry in the early hours of September 5 , 2010 . Garda Concannon testified : " He was lured back to the house by the two girls . They brought him upstairs . They offered him a threesome . He declined but they persisted and got his pants down a small bit . ? 920 was then taken out of his pocket . He tried to get the money back . They got aggressive . They said they had ( male relatives ) in the house and they would get them to beat him up if he did not leave the house . " A short time earlier , a man in his twenties was found in a distressed state in the town . He told garda ? he had been robbed of ? 40 and a mobile phone and had been slashed in the arm with a knife . Garda Concannon said : " He said he met them earlier and they invited him from a bar back to the house . They invited him up to a bedroom upstairs . " Then both women punched him and kicked knife . He decided to escape from the house but he was stabbed in the arm with the knife . " Williamson and another woman were later found arguing in Bantry . They were arrested and all of the stolen cash and the phone were recovered and returned to the owners . Williamson pleaded guilty to robbing the younger man and demanding money with menaces from the older man . It was accepted by the prosecution that the defendant was herself a vulnerable young woman who had various addiction problems including at one time a heroin addiction . A second woman was previously sentenced for her part in the crimes .