Arsenal v Southampton - Starting Teams line up
http://sportsnewsireland.com/soccer/soccer_irish/arsenal-v-southampton-starting-teams-line-up/

Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger : " It 's a big month for us . I am quite confident , having everybody available , that we can do very well . What is important now is for us to be capable of focusing and coping with that kind of expectation level .  " I do n't feel that we have really struggled recently because we had two difficult away games with Stoke and Liverpool and we did n't lose . We had a bad result against Chelsea and of course , if you put the three results together , it looks like we 've struggled but overall the Chelsea result is under special circumstances . "  Southampton manager Ronald Koeman : " We are looking forward to the big game . They know it is difficult to beat Southampton and we have a good record against the big teams and we want to keep that . "  Head-to-head  Arsenal are unbeaten in 20 league matches at home to Southampton since a 1-0 defeat in November 1987 ( W15 , D5 ) .  However Emirates Stadium in the League Cup last season .  Southampton could register three successive league wins against Arsenal for the first time since 1968 .  Arsenal  They are winless in three league matches and could lose consecutive home games for the first time in the same season since November 2010 .  The Gunners have failed to score in consecutive league games for the first time since August 2012 . They have n't gone longer with scoring for seven years since a run of four successive goalless draws in January-February 2009 .  President of the Olympic Council of Ireland ( OCI ) , Pat Hickey , has confirmed ...  About Us  SportsNewsIreland is an Irish website launched in 2009 to offer sports fans in Ireland an alternative and independent source to keep them up to date with all the news from around the country . Every week we bring you live score updates from all levels of GAA , rugby , soccer , racing and athletics . Contact Email : **26;0;TOOLONG  Twitter Feed  Twitter feed loading ...  Categories  Pages  Sports in users ' contributions . You may contribute to the Sports News Ireland Online Community and interactive services subject to the following terms and conditions . These conditions apply to any content contributed in any format to any platforms hosted or facilitated by Sports News Ireland .