Tips for happier tenants
http://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/tips-for-happier-tenants-34451072.html

tips for happier tenants  1 there is a lot of ignorance and prejudice about renting . look and learn for yourself . learn about costs , savings , rights and duties . think about long-term as well as short-term issues - especially about your home and where you work .  2 one of the best places to learn about renting is from the prtb on prtb.ie . it 's the private residential tenancies board - they give an authoritative and independent overview for both landlords and tenants .  3 renting gives predictability , choice , flexibility and value . research the advantages of renting - there are surprisingly many at different stages of your life . renting does n't always mean an apartment - it can also mean a house .  4 long-term renters need to make pension or saving provision for accommodation after retirement when income reduces significantly . homeowners eventually have an asset once they have paid off their mortgage - make sure that you make long-term income plans if you are making long-term rental plans .  5 rent within not cost more than 30-50pc ( max ! ) of your income . location is the single biggest factor in cost - however , time and travel are also costs , a monthly short hop ticket will cost ? 119 . factor this into your calculations .  6 have realistic rent expectations - places are smaller , older and more expensive nearer city centres - further out they are bigger , newer and cheaper . " older is colder " is a good general rule - modern accommodation can cost significantly less to occupy than older places .  7 renting is changing quite quickly in ireland because of changes in law and practice . as more and more people rent , it is likely to continue to change .  8 renting gives important flexibility for some types of employment . patterns of employment see many people changing jobs more and more frequently - especially in the high-tech sectors . renting can make this easier , especially if you are likely to spend time working abroad .  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .