The Ronan Lyons column: Feeding a rental market starved of homes
http://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/the-ronan-lyons-column-feeding-a-rental-market-starved-of-homes-34451064.html

the ronan lyons column : feeding a rental market starved of homes  ronan lyons  the first two weeks of this column were focused on a perhaps unfamiliar measure of how healthy the housing sector is , by looking at how often the typical property changes hands . that , though , is a measure focused exclusively on the sales segment . as we know from the 2011 census , nearly one third of households are renters .  this week and next , i 'll be taking a look at the health of the rental sector . the focus today will be to look again at quantities rather than prices . the latest edition of the daft.ie rental report , which i author , was released earlier this week and showed a combination of rapidly rising rents and incredibly tight supply in the rental market .  the story about rental prices is , perhaps , reasonably well-known . in short , rents in dublin have risen by more than 40pc since 2010 and are effectively back at their 2008 peak . the picture in is it so in dublin 's commuter counties . elsewhere in the country , rents began rising later - typic- ally in 2013 or 2014 - and remain more than 10pc below the peaks of nearly a decade ago .  but what about the availability of rental property ? there are two ways of looking at this . the first is to look at the stock of properties available to rent at any given time and track that . this is done in the rental report , taking the first of the month as a barometer , and figures go back to the start of 2006 . what this series shows is startling .  on february 1 , 2016 there were fewer than 3,600 properties available to rent nationwide . to put this in perspective , three years ago , nearly 12,000 were available to rent , and on the same date in 2009 there were more than 20,000 rental properties on the market . perhaps a fairer comparison is with the last time rents were rising rapidly , in 2006 and 2007 . however , even in those the market .  this shows just how starved the rental market now is . in cork , galway , limerick and waterford cities combined , there were only 322 properties available to rent on february 1 this year . for some perspective , these four cities had more than 50,000 rental homes in the 2011 census .  what makes this even more concerning is that the number of households renting has , in all likelihood , increased substantially over the five years since the last census . during that period , the population of the country has increased by almost 100,000 people - roughly 40,000 households - but at a time when access to the owner-occupier market has been limited .  i have mentioned that the first way of viewing rental supply is to look at the stock available at any particular time . the second is to look at the flow - how many properties are put up for rent in a given period ? the figures accompanying this article show the total number of rental listings nationwide , each quarter , from the start of 2011 is that there is a dwindling number of properties being put up for rent . in the final three months of 2011 , more than 30,000 properties were advertised for rent . in the final three months of 2015 , just over 16,000 were listed . in a country with a growing number of renters , there is a decreasing number of properties available to them .  over the course of 2015 , 80,000 properties were advertised for rent . with more than half-a-million households now renting in ireland , this means only one in six rental properties was put up for rent .  put another way , each rental property is changing hands once every six years . renters who find somewhere to live are not interested in moving in a hurry . this undermines one of the advantages the rented sector has over the owner-occupied sector - mobility when needed .  taken together , the signals from the rented sector in terms of availability are bad . this is the opposite to the owner-occupier segment where , despite the lack of new homes being built , .  the rental sector , however , is where those at the margins live . this means policy-makers have an extra responsibility to ensure affordability and availability , particularly for those on lower incomes . unfortunately , that is not the case .  next week , we 'll connect up the rented and owner-occupied sectors and look at perhaps the single most important metric of the health of the housing sector - the ratio of prices to rents .  ronan lyons is assistant professor of economics at trinity college dublin and author of the daft.ie reports  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .