Agent view: New mortgage rules get a mixed report one year on
http://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/agent-view-new-mortgage-rules-get-a-mixed-report-one-year-on-34451079.html

so far , there seems to be some support for the former argument at least . it was widely presumed that tighter lending rules would benefit buyers by curtailing rapid house price inflation . however , this has not really happened . sure , price growth in dublin has slowed sharply since last february . but the heat has merely been displaced .  on the one hand , lending restrictions have driven some buyers out to more affordable markets in the suburbs . as well as heralding the return of long commutes , this has led to accelerating price growth in locations like meath , laois and louth . the net result - higher prices in less prime locations - can hardly be considered a win for the homebuyer .  while some would-be buyers have reacted to tighter lending by leaving town , others have opted to hang in there and rent until they can amass a deposit . however , this is n't exactly working out either . the influx of bodies has led to a shortage of rented accommodation ; there are currently a long-term average of 5,200 . inevitably , this has driven sharp rental increases - again demonstrating that the inflationary pressures have just been displaced .  sadly , with high rents making it difficult to save , the reality is that many aspiring homeowners may be renting for a long time to come .  so if the mortgage rules have not helped buyers , have they at least brought financial stability ? well , as they have prevented borrowers from overstretching themselves , the answer is probably yes - for now . however , rising rents are attracting investment and the private rented tenure is expanding .  as recently noted by the governor of the bank of england , if investors ' share becomes too big , there is a danger that any hiccup could cause a sudden exodus .  such a sell-off could drive down prices , creating widespread negative equity - something that is clearly contrary to financial stability .  on balance , it looks like the mortgage rules have had a negative impact . however , it may take some time for the the fact that the central bank has committed to a formal evaluation is very positive . undoubtedly there will be pressure to do this quickly .  but given the likelihood of lagged effects , there should be no rush and hopefully the bank will be given time to conduct its review when all the necessary data become available .  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .