Mary Kenny: broody to be a grandma!
http://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mary-kenny/mary-kenny-broody-to-be-a-grandma-34440593.html

when it came to family matters , she said that her two offspring were now in their 30s and both had jobs which seemed to suit them quite well . " but i wish to god they 'd settle down and start having babies ! i mean , while we 're still young enough and fit enough to be active grandparents . " gemma and her husband are heading for their mid-60s .  gemma was n't so sure , though . she observed that this 30-something generation seem to set up in relationships , live together for a few years , and then break up . then it 's back to square one : looking for the right partner with whom to embark on nesting , and perhaps reproducing , if all parties are agreed .  and then there 's the mortgage problem . the job , the mortgage , the relationship : all the ducks have to be in line , it seems . it takes time . maybe gemma and peter would be hitting 70 by the time they could call themselves grandma after an active toddler once they had the hip replacements , the knee replacements , the hearing aids , and all the rest of the paraphernalia that goes with declining years ?  " now is the time for me to grandparent , " she insisted .  but of course , she had n't said any of this to her grown-up kids . there 's a freemasonry rule among oldies who came to adulthood in the 1960s and 1970s : we do n't interfere in our adult children 's lives . we do n't tell them to do this , that or the other " for their own good " - because we swore on a metaphorical stack of bibles , back then , that we would never be like our own mothers and aunts , fathers and uncles , trying to direct and " control " our destinies .  it 's their life ; it 's their choice . that 's the mantra . our role is to maintain omerta . so the parents of adult offspring prefer to confide in one another . " when is she he 's broken up with that lovely , suitable , girl - when will he commit ? " " do n't they read the statistics about older mothers ? " " are they going to leave it so long they 'll be queuing up at the ivf clinic ? "  the statistics about older mothers ! we now have the oldest irish mothers on record - irish women are having their first babies at a later age than ever before .  the master of the national maternity hospital , dr rhona mahony , noted recently that the proportion of women giving birth over 35 has " surged " in the last decade - up 20pc since 2003 . and while babies are surely always welcome at holles street - it 's their business - dr mahony also added that the trend towards older mothers has caused a " huge amount of complications " in maternal care .  and then there is this knock-on problem with the next generation up . to become a grandparent in your 60s is , usually , great timing . the demographic of people active , and often comfortably off - and thus in an ideal position to support parents in their 30s .  but push it a decade later and it ai n't so simple . the oldies have often become less fit , and instead of being a support and a help to the young parents , may become more of a worry . thus you get the " sandwich generation " of exhausted women in their 40s looking after their young children , and their old parents , simultaneously .  i sympathise with gemma ( and i know at least two other couples in their 60s with similar complaints ) but it 's not easy to see an immediate solution . jobs , houses , partners in life may need luck , opportunity and serendipity as well as timing . not to mention the stewardship of the economy .  yet we could generally put it about a bit more emphatically that men , especially , should feel some obligation to commit to relationships , after a given length of time . and especially once they hit 30 , which planning counsellor once told me that many of the " unplanned pregnancies " she works with are more likely to be , in truth , " relationship testing " pregnancies . consciously , " an accident " , or " contraceptive failure " may be offered as the reason for the pregnancy being unexpected - and yes , genuine accidents do happen - but the couple 's reaction , as a couple , was still very significant . the baby is the test of the relationship .  for many , that 's not the way they want to start their settled-down life together - with an unplanned or crisis pregnancy . they want to be responsible . they want to plan . they want to be ready to become parents . and fair play to those who prefer to be organised about these things .  yet : the admirable war historian , barbara tuchman , wrote that she found she was pregnant just as war broke out and her husband was drafted into the military . not the best time to have a baby , was her first reaction never a perfect time , and sometimes you just have to go with nature 's prompting .  to whom it concerns , perhaps an appropriate message for valentine 's day in a leap year : get breedin ' !  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .