O'Donnell sons claim bank seeking to damage their reputations
http://www.irishtimes.com/business/financial-services/o-donnell-sons-claim-bank-seeking-to-damage-their-reputations-1.2546994

by using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . for more information on cookies see our cookie policy .  o'donnell sons claim bank seeking to damage their reputations  bank of ireland trying to prevent blake and bruce o'donnell from dispersing proceeds of property sale  about 14 hours ago  blake o donnell , son of solicitor brian o'donnell pictured at the high court during the second week of a high court action .  the high court has continued orders preventing the sons of retired solicitor brian o'donnell and three companies dissipating any money they may get from the sale of a valuable property in london .  blake and bruce o'donnell had argued there was no need for such orders and contended bank of ireland 's action seeking them was an effort to damage their reputations . bank of ireland claims firms connected to blake and bruce o'donnell may get as much as ? 6 million ( ? 7.6m ) from the sale of columbus courtyard , canary wharf , after substantial debts on the building , valued at of ireland claims .  the bank , which is pursuing brian and mary patricia o'donell for repayment of a judgment of some ? 70million , obtained temporary orders last friday preventing dissipation of any monies received from the sale by blake and bruce and three british virgin island ( bvi ) registered companies .  the bank said it feared residual sale proceeds could go to the companies as part of an alleged fraudulent scheme by the parents , who are bankrupt and would not be entitled to deal in the assets , to put monies beyond the reach of the bank .  blake o'donnell has described the bank 's claims as " scurrilous " .  temporary injunction  the bank wants the columbus courtyard sale to proceed , as do the o'donnells and the court-appointed official administering the bankruptcy , the court heard on wednesday .  the bank previously got undertakings from blake and bruce in 2012 not to deal in the bvi assets .  it says , when it learned last week the sale of columbus courtyard was imminent , it obtained ex parte the bvi companies and blake and bruce dissipating any sale proceeds . it took separate proceedings in the bvi on the same day .  when the matter returned before mr justice john hedigan on wednesday , blake o'donnell complained , on behalf of himself and his brother , they had received only an order made by the bvi supreme court but none of the details of what the bank based its case on .  the order sought by the bank in the bvi was " a backdoor way " of getting a receiver appointed over the companies and was inappropriate , he said .  he did not understand why the 2012 undertakings given by his brother and himself were not enough , mr o'donnell added . the bank could simply have asked the brothers to agree to continue them .  the bank was trying to damage their reputations , he said . despite bankrupting his parents , the bank was still pursuing them and pursuing him and his brother though " a derivative action " , he added .  the bank 's actions in seeking these columbus courtyard in excess of stg ? ? 100m , he also said .  full determination  cian ferriter sc , for the bank , said it had met the tests for securing an injunction pending full determination of the matter .  the judge said that what happened in the bvi was not really relevant to the bank 's application to continue the orders ontained here on friday . he believed the orders being sought were essentially the same as the undertakings previously given by the brothers and would grant them pending a full hearing .  he did not see how these proceedings could have any affect on the sale of the property , the judge added .