Enda Kenny vows to 'intensify' efforts to form government
http://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/enda-kenny-vows-to-intensify-efforts-to-form-government-386794.html

" yes , it has n't been perfect and yes there is so much more to do , " said the newly elected dublin north west td . the nomination was seconded by dublin south central td catherine byrne , who said mr kenny was a man of " integrity , honour , and vision . "  mr kenny received 57 votes for taoiseach and 94 against .  fianna f ? il leader miche ? l martin was nominated for the role by td lisa chambers , who said that he had tried , in opposition , to highlight negative changes that had affected communities .  fianna f ? il leader miche ? l martin  " people want an ireland for all and not just for a few , " said the mayo td , whose nomination of mr martin was seconded by meath east td thomas byrne . mr martin received 43 votes for and 108 against .  gerry adams , proposed for taoiseach by his party sinn f ? in , received 24 votes for and 116 against .  would give his resignation to president michael d higgins but that he would continue to try and form a government .  despite having already held a week of talks with smaller parties and independents , mr kenny said he would now " intensify efforts " to form a " lasting and durable " government .  there were options open to his party , he said , and fine gael would now have to examine " all " of those to form a government .  his comments came following widespread suggestions in the chamber from labour , sinn f ? in and the greens among others that fine gael and fianna f ? il should end their differences and do a deal .  enda kenny  mr kenny , responding to calls for d ? il reform , also said there would be changes to how business was done in future in the parliament . the next cabinet would also make more informed decisions in future , he pledged .  mr kenny also signalled that talks on forming a government were a priority because of other issues spring spending statement from a new government as well as britain 's pending vote on staying in the eu in june .