D il Day One: Second election on the way as grand coalition lies is ...
http://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/dail-day-one-second-election-on-the-way-as-grand-coalition-lies-is-ruins-386820.html

mr martin said the irish people did not vote for fianna f ? il and fine gael to go into government together . mr martin , surrounded by his expanded d ? il party at leinster house , said the mandate given to him was to change the government .  " we did n't get a mandate to go into government with fine gael and we certainly did n't get a mandate to put fine gael back into government , " he said .  however in the d ? il , fianna f ? il was forced to vote with fine gael to prevent a sinn f ? in motion to scrap water charges being heard in the d ? il . this voting down of the motion was criticised by sinn f ? in president gerry adams .  having failed to be re-elected as taoiseach by the d ? il , mr kenny formally tendered his resignation as taoiseach to president michael d higgins at ? ras an uachtar ? in last night .  a statement released on behalf of the government td , has this evening conveyed to the president his resignation from office . in accordance with the constitution , the government and the taoiseach will continue to carry on their duties until successors have been appointed . "  following the failure to elect a taoiseach , the d ? il descended into farce as tds clashed for several hours over how to conduct its business , with new ceann comhairle se ? n ? feargha ? l coming under severe pressure from sinn f ? in and independents .  fine gael ministers have confirmed that discussions on behalf of the party will start while mr kenny is in the us next week , and contact with fianna f ? il is expected to take place before he departs .  it has emerged that both ministers leo varadkar and simon coveney have cancelled planned st patrick 's day trips to boston and dubai to take part in potential discussions .  the reluctance of the two senior ministers -- both seen as potential leaders of fine gael -- to travel , indicates that the party intends to keep .  mr kenny will be in the us for the national day commemorations and will also attend an eu summit in brussels next week .  senior fine gael sources have also told the irish examiner if some spending estimates can not be pushed through the d ? il next month , that the parliament will have to be dissolved .  sources close to mr varadkar say parts of spending estimates in the health sector will need to be approved in the coming weeks , but will need agreement in the d ? il .  small parties and independent tds have urged fine gael and fianna f ? il to cut a deal with each other .  newly elected td danny healy-rae and green party leader eamon ryan said the move should be considered for the good of the country and to leave the century-old civil war firmly in the past .