Brendan - a lifetime of commitment to the cause
http://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/sport/204174/Brendan---a-lifetime-of.html

brendan - a lifetime of commitment to the cause  it intrigues when people outside the county wonder about the reasons why kilkenny hurling is enjoying such a rich vein of success .  many would present ideas as numerous as the colours in joseph 's dream-coat .  but irrespective of the pontifications , the answer simply swirls around a couple of major issues . they are endemic in the old adage that reads " fail to prepare , prepare to fail " .  it really does come down to preparation of mind and body , and nobody addresses that idiom with a greater verve and concentration than kilkenny .  the county has records , a super-star aura , a rich hurling history , legends and what have you .  the great phil ' fan ' larkin would have you believe that there is no such thing as a bad kilkenny hurler . reference the life-span of most of us ; it is difficult not to agree with ' fan ' .  it is not taxing either to present the whys and few words about the imperious liam ' chunkey ' o'brien , and how at christmas time , most of his friends of five and six years of age were getting guns , holsters , lorries and trains as presents , while he always got the same present - a hurley and sliotar .  he spoke too of playing under the railway bridge day and night on the o'loughlin road , and how the insurance agent , the iconic county board secretary of the day , paddy grace would always have a sliotar for him when he passed along the road .  the game is in the dna .  take a stroll along ormonde street on any school lunch break , and have a look . then tell me your impressions .  students from the christian brothers and st kieran 's college , many of them armed with hurleys tip-tapping a sliotar to each other , or pucking the same sliotar on to the walls of high buildings with tremendous accuracy and concentration .  in a game where failure to hit the third story walls is temporary could only be seen in a county like kilkenny .  in very simple terms , these young men have been doing such practices at home , and in their clubs a million times over .  recently i met with one of the modern-day development gurus - he will hate that description - who has been central to the development of under-age hurling in kilkenny . it is brendan o'sullivan .  the popular ' sully ' was begot , bred and welded in thomastown lore . he attended primary school in the town .  later when he qualified as a primary school teacher , the bus back to his native sod could n't travel fast enough .  you start talking to brendan about hurling in thomastown , and you have a tough job fining the full stop . and can he find that reverse gear in a heartbeat ?  tell me about it dear reader !  before returning to his home patch , brendan furthered his second level education in de la salle in waterford as a boarder . there he befriended two people who the first was liam griffin , the former clare and wexford hurler , wexford all-ireland-winning manager , and one of ireland 's leading hoteliers . the other was ned quinn , the kilkenny gaa boad chairman .  brendan o'sullivan cemented a friendship that continues to this day .  de la salle were defeated in a harty cup final by ? rdscoil ris , and an all-ireland colleges football final by belcamp college , for whom one frank cummins clattered home a superb goal .  brendan conceded that the pursuit of education was often parked while a leinster railway cup team was selected , or an ireland team to play the combined universities got assigned much of the time that should have been allocated to the m ? dh cinnealach , or the pythagoras theorem .  " but we got there nonetheless , " he smiled philosophically .  we need to clutch and engage the rev gear . while in school with peadar laffin ( rip ) and tom comer , brendan hurled in numerous schools finals , winning a fist of them . schools hurling was a dozen schools championship on the bounce , with the much admired mrlaffin in charge .  " we lost the first one the year mr laffin passed away , " brendan recalled . " i remember it was against mooncoin .  " but there were great schools teams around at the time in place like st patrick 's , rower inistioge , mooncoin , kilkenny cbs , ballyhale and jim neary 's lads in kilmanagh .  " that time it did n't matter what parish a lad came from , as long as he was on the roll call at the start of the year . the first win i had , we had jim ' boxer ' walsh at centre -back . he is from bennettsbridge , but he went to school in thomastown .  " it was the same in every parish , " he reminded .  when brendan finished playing he was already immersed in the hurling life of his own school .  " we had a great run of school wins during the early seventies , " he recalled . " we had tremendous youngsters there .  " we had paudie lannon , probably the most talented all-round sportsman this county has ever produced , and we had dick o'hara , john costello , the hoynes , the walshes and others .  " as well as the hurling championships , we also won plenty of football championships too , with practically the same players . they were great times with great players . "  the kilkenny schools board organisation , started by people like tom waldron , was the template many others copied .  " certainly , " brendan said when it was put to him . " much of the heavy lifting in that regard was done by people like tom . then when we came home to take up our positions in our respective schools , most went in to join up with the schools board .  " lads like paul ( kinsella ) , jimmy neary , john knox ( gowran teacher ) , tommy hayes , dick o'neill and others were young , ambitious and focussed on the core issue of the betterment the new innovative ideas that you initiated , which was the provision of hurling equipment to schools , and by definition children at a very affordable price , we suggested .  " paul was the instigator of that , " brendan revealed . " families were finding life difficult , with low wage packets , or unemployment . paul approached hurley makers in kilkenny with a proposition to purchase good quality hurls for juveniles .  " there was no profit accruing to anyone . we let the hurleys off at what was paid for them . he also negotiated a price for helmets .  " they too were sold with no profit . to be fair to all the kilkenny hurley makers , they extended a credit facility that you would get nowhere else .  " bank interest rates at the time were over 17% , so normal credit was expensive . but the kilkenny hurley makers were very understanding , and very decent .  " people like ramie dowling , pat delaney , michael brennan of castle hurleys were marvellous to us . they extended they would eventually get paid .  " paul was brilliant that way , and in many other elements of the schools operation . it was an organisation built on trust and friendship , where the chairmanship alternated on an annual basis .  " the secretary and treasurer never changed for 30 years , with paul and john knox in situ for all of that time . it was n't all about teachers either .  " we had great people involved like billy phelan from mooncoin , joe quinn from kilmacow and others . they worked away for the good of hurling in their own schools .  " we had a brilliant minder in paddy grace ( co . board secretary ) . even when there was n't a bob in the county board , paddy always said there would be money found for schools hurling . he never , to his eternal credit reneged on that promise . "  how did you arrive at the county board initially ?  " if i was honest , i would have to admit that i probably got in remember the marvellous joe walsh , secretary of the south board ? he insisted that i run for the leinster council .  " i found out afterwards that my running guaranteed that another delegate would not win the election . so i really came in on the back of a little subterfuge , in-house politics , and some naivety . "  there were times brendan , certainly when you attended county board meetings , that you were on a kind of crusade which at times was very much viewed by the elder statesmen as arrogant and even disruptive ?  " maybe so , " he said . " we were young , with some different ideas . i can see how we could have been seen thus , but it was a tough arena at meetings under the old stand .  brendan remembered the chairman of the leinster council in his time , tom loftus .  " he was a far-seeing man , " he insisted . " i remember that there were five leinster counties , including kilkenny , who were absolutely broke .  five years of grants to the counties in one offering , with the proviso that they would be returned whenever their circumstances allowed .  " he was a great man , as was the then young secretary called michael delaney . "  again , we go back a little . progressing to the under-16 grade , and then minor , brendan o'sullivan played with the celluloid star of the land , one ollie walsh , goalie supreme .  " ollie was a hero to all , " he beamed at memories of the great one . " we looked up to him as if he was a god , and to many around thomastown and further afield , he was . he was the original gaa pin-up star .  " he was a marvellous hurler , with flowing blonde hair , a tremendous sidestep . he was a terrific human being , who never lost his love , or never failed to announce that he was from thomastown . as young lads we would go down to grennan to watch him train .  " and he up the age ranks and found myself playing on the same team , it was pure exhilaration .  " thomastown were asked to play in loads of tournaments , but it was ollie that everyone wanted to see . thousands would turn up to the games . lads would be talking about the big crowds , but in honesty , if ollie travelled alone there would still be the same numbers .  " he was admired , loved and enjoyed everywhere he went . he was a brilliant outfield hurler too . "  brendan continued with the stories of his beloved thomastown . he spoke of how they got to and lost the senior hurling final in 1967 , for instance .  " fate and downright bad luck denied us our chance of senior glory , " he ventured . " we lost tom ( walsh ) because of that dreadful accident in the ' 67 all-ireland final . he was a terrible loss .  " he had not even reached his prime . he was so dedicated that there is no doubt in my mind of hurling . he was such a lovely fellow , and still is .  " we lost ollie because of suspension after the national league final against tipp the following year . i have no doubt , but that if both were available , we would have won .  " that setback had a deep effect on the hurling life of our town . it dealt a blow that took a long time to get over . the effect lingered too long in the minds and hearts of the staunch hurling people .  " for a very long time the scars were very raw , " he insisted .  brendan played with the thomastown seniors before he was 17 . he was sharing the same dressing room ( a skeough bush or the back of a parked van , if lucky ) with some of the greats of the day like ollie , tom ' blonde ' walsh , ' cha ' whelan , dick blanchfield and dick walsh .  he played on successive kilkenny minor teams in 1964 and ' 65 . the former were won the all-ireland in ' 65 , having beaten kilkenny on the way .  he progressed to the under-21 team in ' 67 , again with limited success . ironic then that the thomastown man could n't buy an all-ireland victory as a player , but could n't miss all-irelands as a selector with the entire spread of county teams at all levels , except junior .  he even won two titles with the greatest camogie team the country has ever known in 1976 and again in ' 77 .  " they were an amazing team , " brendan recalled . " i have been involved with many championship winning teams , and while they were all superb athletes , none of the team was better at what they did than those camogie players .  " they had very little support financially , although to be fair to paddy grace , he never saw them stuck . ann carroll and bridie mcgarry would drive from dublin to kilkenny to train on a wednesday evening , pick up liz neary in whatever hospital she was in training to " that was replicated on many nights and days through the campaigns . then you had biddy ( o'sullivan ) coming up from tullogher on a bone shaker of a honda 50 . the downeys , fennelly , kavanagh , martin , conway , o'neills , carey , holden , ryan and the rest knew no limits of the energy and dedication that was needed to win titles .  " i treasure every memory i shared with those girls - truly awesome . amazing people to know and work with . "  brendan was appointed leinster hurling officer by the leinster council . his remit was all about improving the state , and standard , of the game in leinster .  he spent many , many hours on the roads preaching the gospel . to this end , he elicited the help of his hurling friends in his native place to give a hand .  " the likes of noel skehan , georgie leahy , ' fan ' larkin and tony doran never failed to honour their word when asked to give a hand in other counties great friend of georgie leahy ?  " of course , " he replied . " he is one of the most loyal , trustworthy , honourable , decent people that i have had the pleasure of working with . but you see , that is no state secret .  " there are literally thousands of people with whom georgie has worked or helped who would say the same . some would say it better . i am always honoured to say to people when they ask if i know him , that he is one of my greatest friends . "  on his time with the winning minor team of 1988 he offered : " they were a smashing bunch of young lads . they had great talent . lads like d.j . ( carey ) , adrian ronan , pat o'neill , charlie ( carter ) , john conlon , declan roche , jimmy conroy , patsy brophy , pat o'grady were terrific , but the real engine room of that minor team was briain ryan . what a player . brilliant ! "  brendan was ' 83 .  " i 'm going to say something , and many will take exception , but it is an opinion of mine that the best kilkenny team ever was the double-double winning team of that time , " he insisted . " they were magnificent players with a ferocious will to win .  " we had pat ( henderson ) as our manager , and the rest of us did n't really matter . he never believed in this shouting and roaring , or breaking tables with hurleys .  " he established a trust in the players , and they responded . look at the players he had , and tell me that kilkenny have produced better ? "  i can hear the arguments starting . give the man credit for courage and honestly held conviction .  back to the goal by frank cummins which denied de la salle the all-ireland football title .  " i remember one evening at training ' threatening ' frank cummins with dropping him because he beat us with that fantastic goal , " he said as he . i was n't that brave , but we often had a good laugh about it . "  name one major change in the game that you have noticed over the years , we urged .  " i 'll give you two , " he answered . " i think the fun has gone out of the game , but particularly at the younger age levels . it has become too serious too early for the youngsters .  " now they are pumping iron , following dietary specialists and specialised programmes . there is something very wrong with that progression .  " it is still about enjoyment . it is still about friendships . it is about being a part of something enjoyable . if it is supposedly about enjoyment , how do i hear terminology like hard work being used ?  " the second element i worry about is that the core element is slowly but surely being eroded by a lack of acknowledgement and encouragement .  " how often do you hear the words ' grass roots ' mentioned ?  " how ' being manured with any worthwhile significant growth hormones ? "  i asked one final question ! why is kilkenny so far ahead of others in many elements ?  " we have great people making telling contributions to every element of the gaa in the county , " he insisted . " at club level , at schools level , at development level , at administration level , at supporters club level . they are tremendous .  " take , for instance , the development of nowlan park . is there a better , more appropriate stadium in any code in the country ?  " they do n't all have to be as big as croke park or thurles . look at the achievement in dunmore ?  " take a simple matter like the yearbook that a few of you are involved with . nobody does a better job . it meets the need to publicise a yearly record of our activities .  " the kilkenny system is a long way removed from a castle built on sand . everyone has bought into the culture even supporters - there are plenty of acolytes ready and willing to take up the mantle .  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : kilkenny people , high street , kilkennyemail : **33;38;toolong : 056 7791000  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie kilkenny people provides news , events and sport features from the kilkenny area . for the best up to date information relating to kilkenny and the surrounding areas visit us at kilkenny people regularly or bookmark this page .