A step in the right direction for rising Cork
http://www.irishexaminer.com/sport/columnists/donal-ogrady/a-step-in-the-right-direction-for-rising-cork-387266.html

donal o'grady : a step in the right direction for rising cork  this was a superb contest last saturday night . cork were six points up and it looked as if they were going to hold out for a much needed win with five minutes remaining in normal time .  the league points on offer were of little consequence to cork but putting one over on the all-ireland champions would have given them a much needed boost .  cork were the better team in the first period . kilkenny 's management restructured the forward line at half time and it had a better balance thereafter . walter walsh , now right half forward , helped out in midfield while replacement james maher operated on the left flank of the attack and brought more strength and industry . richie hogan went to top of the left , effectively playing a free role .  colin fennelly , one of their most effective attackers in the first-half , went to full-forward while midfielder lester ryan , an early replacement for the unfortunate conor fogarty , pushed paul murphy held his position well : he did n't follow luke o'farrell out the field and swept up in front of the full back line .  kilkenny ran more directly at the cork defence in the second-half and probed for weaknesses . their hard work was rewarded with two goals as the clock ticked down . colin fennelly played a lovely ' one two ' with richie hogan who delayed his ' over the top ' pass just long enough to put fennelly through with the ball being knocked over the line by the scrambling defence . moments later tj reid released john power . his miss hit pass fell to the supporting reid , who goaled .  they snatched victory at the death and ultimately it was the small things their experience gave them that saw them home .  at the other end cork showed some inexperience . bill cooper shot wide from a tight angle and o'farrell went for a ' hail mary ' from the wing when a cross towards the excellent seamus harnedy would have been the better option . cork struck 12 and conor lehane were costly . they shot too quickly when a little extra composure might have paid dividends at a time kilkenny were under pressure . i wrote on saturday the game was all about guts , effort , being highly competitive and learning for future battles .  whether cork learned a lot will be determined later in the season but no one could fault them on the competitive aspects of their performance .  their application and commitment was high from the throw in and they won the first half battle . it was obvious the hosts were up for this and midleton pair , o'farrell and conor lehane set the work rate standard .  in general play the half back line of cormac murphy , christopher joyce , who looks much more at home in this line , and lorcan mcloughlin led a heroic defence , whose determination , tenacity and ' never say die ' spirit was in evidence all night .  but i also wrote on saturday good discipline was a prerequisite to compete with kilkenny . too many frees were conceded by points from frees . why hand him easy chances ? it makes more sense to force the other attackers to shoot under pressure and take your chances . at least half of the frees conceded by cork could have been avoided with disciplined tackling .  at the death a misplaced delivery by cork goalkeeper patrick collins straight to john power decided the game . but if cork had n't conceded as many frees maybe the fixture might have been decided in their favour at that juncture .  collins had distributed the ball well and he will be disappointed with his misplaced pass . however it says something about his character he was n't prepared to settle for a draw - he was attempting to win the game by putting his team in possession . attempting to do the right thing is always a mitigating factor when it comes to constructive criticism . his execution let him down on this occasion . he set up as if he was striking to his nearest colleague but it was as if he changed his mind on his downward swing . he may be very satisfied with his display overall .  cork need to work on taking a quick look before striking to the forwards but there are plenty of positives .  kilkenny will be very happy with this win . it 's reminiscent of their recent victory over tipp , illustrating once more their undoubted resilience.