Two Munster EY Hockey League sides may go down
http://www.irishexaminer.com/sport/other-sports/two-munster-ey-hockey-league-sides-may-go-down-387301.html

Two Munster EY Hockey League sides may go down  Monday , March 14 , 2016  Alan Good  Relegation trouble looms for two of Munster 's EY Hockey League sides after a pivotal weekend in both the men 's and women 's competitions .  UCC were left to regret missing two open goals in the opening exchanges against second-placed Pegasus ; the students were level at half-time thanks to a Holly Lehane goal , but a late collapse saw them lose 5-1 .  College must now win away to champions Hermes in their final game , and hope Ards laps their last two to avoid a promotion/relegation playoff .  Hermes showed just how tough that ask will be as former Clare dual GAA star Naomi Carroll scored a camogie-style goal of the season contender in the Dubliners ' remarkable away day 7-0 drubbing of fourth-placed Ulster Elks .  Cork Church of Ireland 's men slipped into the relegation playoff place with four rounds remaining after a 4-0 defeat at Cookstown , which moves the Tyrone men out of the bottom two saved a penalty stroke from C of I talisman John Jermyn as ' Town took a 2-0 lead into half-time ; the Cork men 's discipline deserted them in the final quarter as they finished with nine men and the hosts added two more goals .  At the other end , Lisnagarvey 's 3-2 success over Pembroke means they are just one win away from clinching the title .  A brace from Ireland panellist Simon Wolfe brightened up the weekend for Cork C of I as their seconds reached the Irish Junior Cup final for the first time since their 2009 success with a 3-1 win at Glenanne .  They 'll play Monkstown in the decider as Guy Sarratt 's brace in the final six minutes saw them past Instonians 2-1 .  In Munster , Alison Bourke 's double dented Ashton 's hopes of qualifying for the EYHL playoffs as her Limerick side won 2-1 in Cork to leapfrog their opponents into third place .  Clonakilty won the Division 1 Challenge with Trish Moloney 's goal 12 minutes from time seeing off a determined effort from over Blackrock on the same scoreline .  Cork C of I and Waterford confirmed they will be promoted alongside the West Cork girls ; Amy Roberts notched four in C of I 's 9-1 win over Clonmel while Waterford ended Blackrock 's promotion hopes after winning by the odd goal in three in Cork .  On the men 's side , Bandon 's Division 1 title march continued with a 5-0 rout of Limerick .  Ashton had their fourth successive win , a 4-0 success in Galway , to ignite their hopes of leapfrogging Harlequins to take the Division 1B title .