Poll finds most people oppose military use of Shannon
http://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/poll-finds-most-people-oppose-military-use-of-shannon-387449.html

Poll finds most people oppose military use of Shannon  A poll finding that most Irish people oppose the US using Shannon Airport for military purposes has fuelled calls for Taoiseach Enda Kenny to raise the issue with President Barack Obama .  With six in 10 people opposing the military use of the airport , the results of the poll will send a stark message to Washington in a week where relations are usually cordial between Ireland and the US . Independent TDs Mick Wallace and Clare Daly will release further details of the Red C poll today . They have renewed calls for an inquiry into how Shannon has been used for US military purposes .  Initial details of the poll show 57% of people questioned believe that the Constitution should be changed to ensure Ireland 's neutrality is enshrined in it . However , it also found that the same amount of people oppose the use of Shannon by the United States for military transit purposes , the TDs said .  Mr Kenny , now leading a caretaker government , is expected Shannon Airport with Mr Obama during the customary St Patrick 's Day visit to the White House .  A statement from Wexford TD Wallace said that it was imperative now to raise the matter , given the results of the poll . Mr Wallace claimed Ireland had facilitated US missions to Afghanistan and Iraq , through Shannon .  " It 's long past time that Ireland stopped facilitating this horror by refusing to allow Shannon Airport to be used for any military purposes . We need a change of direction . It should start with the new government . It 's time for Ireland to work for peace , not war . "  Commenting on the results , fellow Independent TD , Dublin-Fingal 's Clare Daly , also said action was needed given the definitive results of the survey .  " A country with a policy of positive neutrality would not facilitate the massive , devastating displacement of tens of millions of people through wars whose only purpose is to keep the gears of the military-industrial complex oiled . "  Ed Horgan of Shannonwatch , a of the airport , said : " Shannon Airport has been used , or misused by the US military , with the approval of successive Irish governments since October 2001 . In the meantime , over 3m armed US troops have transited through Shannon on their way to and from wars and military operations in Afghanistan , Iraq , Yemen , Syria , and elsewhere . "  Mr Horgan claims US military aircraft have transported " unknown quantities of munitions and other war materials " through Shannon but that the Government has repeatedly denied the aircraft are carrying weapons and munitions .  The same poll also found that 57% of respondents want changes made to the Constitution , to ensure Ireland 's neutrality . However , the Department of Foreign Affairs said permission must be sought in advance for landings by all foreign military aircraft .  " These include stipulations that the aircraft must be unarmed , carry no arms , ammunition or explosives and must not engage in intelligence gathering , and that the flights in question must not form part of military exercises or operations . the US is fully aware of the need to comply with these strict conditions . "