Maura Healy-Rae formally co-opted onto Kerry County Council
http://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/maura-healy-rae-formally-co-opted-onto-kerry-county-council-387415.html

maura healy-rae formally co-opted onto kerry county council  tuesday , march 15 , 2016  anne lucey  the eldest daughter of danny healy-rae has been co-opted onto kerry county council in a seat vacated by her father on his election to d ? il ? ireann .  " it used to be three healy-raes for the price of one , now it is four , " danny told the meeting . maura healy-rae , 25 , a teacher of english and history at st brogan 's in bandon co cork , is the fourth of the six healy-rae children of danny and his wife eileen .  the seat in the killarney municipal district was occupied by ms healy-rae 's late grandfather and former td jackie who was elected to kerry county council in 1973 . ms healy-rae was proposed by her brother johnny who represents south and west kerry -- an area , his father pointed out , which is larger geographically than many d ? il constituencies .  ms healy-rae 's co-option brings to six the number of female councillors on representation on the local authority in its history in kerry and it brings to an end a period in recent times in which there was no female councillor in killarney .  in her maiden speech , to a chamber packed with family and friends , ms healy-rae said her grandfather 's legacy was " written all over this constituency " .  her father danny had been " the hardest working councillor to grace the chamber " and he would be a hard act to follow , the new representative said . " i am not getting carried away by the sentimental side of it when there 's work to be done , " ms healy-rae said adding that roads , health , social housing , and education would be her priorities for the next three years .  danny healy-rae -- an independent councillor since 2003 -- was invited to speak by acting chairman jim finucane . he said in dublin they were criticised for being " gombeens " . however , he said , in 10 short days the people understood how to vote , referring to his healy-rae election strategy .  also co-opted and also with full agreement was john lucid from ballyheigue to replace the newly elected fianna f ? il td john brassil in the listowel municipal area . the retired accountant with the esb , 56 , is well known in hurling circles and has trained the hurling team in ballyheigue .  moira murrell , ceo of the council , said it was the council was losing " two very strong members " in mr healy-rae and mr brassil . however , she said the county and its many challenges would be very well represented in the d ? il .