A family affair as TDs pick siblings to 'guard patch' in Cork County ...
http://www.irishexaminer.com/ireland/a-family-affair-as-tds-pick-siblings-to-guard-patch-in-cork-county-council-387419.html

a family affair as tds pick siblings to ' guard patch ' in cork county council  six councillors triumphed in the general election and had to vacate their council seats . however , three of them will have close relatives watching their home patches while they are in dublin .  two political dynasties have their bloodline continued in county hall , in particular the moynihan clan from ballyvourney . aindrias moynihan ( ff ) won a seat in cork north west and he is replaced on the council by his sister , gobnait .  the social care worker was heavily involved in her brother 's election campaign and previously campaigned for her father , donal , who won several terms in the d ? il . if gobnait , or any other member of the moynihan clan , manages a few more years on the council they will set a remarkable 100 years of unbroken service by the family on the local authority .  another fianna f ? il political dynasty has ensured it will keep a presence on the local authority for higher house -- representing cork east -- has paved the way for his sister , deirdre o'brien , to take over in county hall , just as kevin did when his father , ned , was elected to the d ? il in the early 1980s . she works for laya healthcare in little island .  a third co-option might signal the start of a new political dynasty . it 's been a meteoric rise for michael collins ( ind ) , who was only elected to the council in 2014 and now finds himself in the d ? il as a td for the cork south-west constituency . his brother , danny , 40 , who replaces him , runs the boston bar in bantry .  margaret murphy-o'mahony ( ff ) , who was also elected in the same constituency , is being replaced by gillian coughlan , who lost the nomination race against her to contest the general election . a former bandon town councillor , gillian teaches at col ? iste an phairsaigh , glanmire .  sinn f ? in got two councillors into the buckley . the former is replaced by eoghan jeffers , 27 , who lost his job as a mechanic during the recession . danielle twomey , a part-time student in cit , takes up the latter 's seat .