League Preview: Sligo Rovers -v- Finn Harps
http://extratime.ie/newsdesk/articles/16059/

Audio , Video &amp; Photos  Sligo Rovers , who are looking for their first win of the 2016 season welcome Finn Harps to the Showgrounds on Saturday night .  Dave Robertson 's charges have endured a tough start to the season , going down 2-0 at home to Shamrock Rovers on the opening night of the season while playing 45 minutes with ten men , before losing 1-0 to Bohemians and eventually attaining their first point of the season in a 1-1 draw with Connacht rivals Galway United last Monday .  Finn Harps provide the opposition for Sligo 's fourth fixture in a fortnight . However , Bit O'Red boss Dave Robertson believes his player 's hard work in pre-season can see them through this busy period .  " It is good to be getting straight back out there again after Monday . It will be our fourth game in two weeks but the work we did in pre-season has us prepared for that , " the ex-Peterborough boss explained .  As usual teams have to put up with heavy , uneven , Robertson is confident that the Showgrounds ' turf is in good condition and believes that it could give his side the advantage on Saturday night .  " The pitches we have played on so far have also been a bit heavy but I walked the pitch at the Showgrounds today and it is in really good condition now for tomorrow , " Robertson revealed .  " Having that is really conducive to the passing playing style that we have . It has come good quickly and I am pleased as it suits our game . "  The Sligo boss concluded by analyzing the difficult task that face his side in the form of Ollie Horgan 's well drilled Finn Harps .  " They will be tough to play against . They work hard and are very well organised . That is how they got promotion last year .  " They have continued that rich vein of form into this year with the win on the first day . We know what to expect from them and we will pay respect to them as a team full outfit available to them this Saturday with the exception of Phil Roberts who is suspended following his red card in Monday 's 1-1 draw with Galway .  FINN HARPS  Ollie Horgan travels to the Showgrounds looking to attain his sides first points away from Finn Park this season .  Harps started the season with a 2-1 win at home to rivals Derry City , before succumbing to back-to-back defeats to Dundalk and Shamrock Rovers .  The Donegal outfit are currently two points and three positions better off than Sligo in a very early league table .  However , Harps boss Ollie Horgan believes his side will face a very difficult task on Saturday night .  " They ( Sligo Rovers ) are very quick and explosive and play very attractive attacking football . We will be starved of possession against them , " Horgan opened .  The physical demands of the Premier Division have showed in the Finn Harps squad with no fewer than five players already sidelined through injury .  " The biggest difference at moment that we have learned is in a number of injuries , " Horgan concluded .  Michael Rafter , Ciaran Coll , Sean Houston , Barry Molloy and Josh Mailey will once again miss out as they continue to recover from a range of respective injuries .  Referee : Padraigh Sutton  MATCH STATS  The sides have n't met at the Showgrounds since 2009 when the Bit O'Red won 4-1in a last 16 League Cup clash .  The man in the middle for that game was Padraigh Sutton . The Clare man will once again mediate between the two sides on Saturday night .  You have to go back to 2004 for Finn Harps ' last league victory over Sligo Rovers which came in a 1-0 win at Finn Park .