Brussels in state of chaos as police search for perpetrators of the ...
http://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/brussels-in-state-of-chaos-as-police-search-for-perpetrators-of-the-attacks-34562367.html

brussels in state of chaos as police search for perpetrators of the attacks  sarah collins in brussels  in this photo provided by ralph usbeck travellers stand in a smoke filled terminal at brussels airport , in brussels after explosions tuesday , march 22 , 2016 .  brussels remains in a state of chaos this afternoon as army and police lock down the city following a succession of bomb blasts at the airport and a metro station that belgian prime minister charles michel called " blind , violent and cowardly " .  police cars and ambulances wail across the city while helicopters criss-cross the sky as police search for the perpetrators of the attacks .  all public transport has been suspended , children are being kept inside school gates and government and eu buildings have been put on high alert .  the belgian federal public prosecutor has opened up a criminal inquiry into the attacks and belgian media are reporting police raids are taking place across the city .  eyewitnesses at the airport said the blast occurred near the entrance to and where travellers access city centre train and bus links .  all passengers have now been evacuated from the scene , and all flights cancelled until at least tomorrow , the brussels airport authority confirmed .  in brussels city , eu institutions are in lockdown , with their internal terror alerts raised a notch following the blast at the maelbeek metro station , which is located at the heart of the eu district .  one irish official working in the institutions said he was advised not to leave the building , and to move away from offices with street-facing windows .  the irish embassies in brussels - both the bilateral embassy to belgium and the permanent representation to the eu - say they have established the safety of all staff and have set up a dublin-based number for people to call if they are worried about relatives and friends in the belgian capital .  a spokesman for the european commission said there was " no indication this was a terror attack on the eu institutions " and that the belgian security services were in charge of nervousness and agitation inside the commission 's berlaymont headquarters , where the 28 commissioners and their staff are housed .  flags are flying at half-mast outside , and people are being advised not to leave if they are already inside the building and to stay home if they have not yet arrived .  two of the european commission 's offices - those closest to the maelbeek metro station , where an explosion hit just after 9am local time - have been evacuated .  the staff canteen in one of the buildings , at 86 rue de la loi , is being used to treat the injured from the blast .  a hotel close to the metro station , the thon hotel on rue de la loi , is also acting as a makeshift hospital for the maelbeek metro victims .  all qualified doctors from the eu institutions have been sent down to help deal with the carnage as the death toll mounts .  many people on the street feel bewildered by the attacks , which seem to have been orchestrated to coincide with the busy for the easter holidays .  they follow four days after the arrest of the most wanted man in europe , salah abdeslam , a development which had brought the country - and the beleaguered security services - a mild sense of relief .  all that has evaporated now as belgians prepare for another period of high alert , with army patrols on the streets , cancelled public events and public transport chaos .  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .