Pro12 set for thrilling run-in as Irish provinces look to secure play-offs
http://www.the42.ie/pro12-provinces-run-in-connacht-leinster-2674037-Mar2016/

pro12 set for thrilling run-in as irish provinces look to secure play-offs  munster are in the greatest danger of missing out at present .  while the six nations has commanded most attention over the past two months , the guinness pro12 has teed itself up superbly for a thrilling run-in to the play-offs .  even the briefest of glances through the upcoming fixture list underlines how many crucial games lie ahead before , and including , the final day of the regular season on 7 may .  tournament organisers could n't have planned it any better .  connacht will have to look over their shoulders in coming weeks . source : francesca soli/inpho  this weekend , the crucial showdowns begin with first-placed connacht hosting second-placed leinster , while play-off hopefuls and defending champions glasgow welcome ulster , currently occupying the fourth and final play-off spot , to scotstoun .  starting with leaders connacht when assessing the weeks ahead makes most sense . pat lam 's men have been the brightest light in irish rugby all season and missing out on  by no means is connacht 's run-in straightforward , but with lam 's side currently on a five-game winning streak and brimming with confidence and attacking quality , they have every right to be bullish about their chances of securing a home semi-final .  three inter-provincial derbies in a row is a testing run , though two of them are at home for connacht . lam 's men have lost just once in eight league games at the sportsground this season , a 10-3 defeat to ulster .  their try-scoring record -- a remarkable 49 in 17 games , already equal to last season 's entire tally -- is hugely encouraging , even if connacht tend to ship tries too . already this season is a major success for connacht , but there is no reason they can not continue to lead the way and challenge for a trophy .  luke fitzgerald is close to making his comeback . source : dan sheridan/inpho  leo cullen 's leinster arrive in galway on saturday after last weekend 's defeat to glasgow ended a four-game winning run . the and has coped well without their many internationals .  the prospect of the likes of the in-form johnny sexton , jamie heaslip and devin toner coming back into the mix in the next fortnight , along with returning injured players like luke fitzgerald and marty moore is reassuring for leinster .  not that those men have been sorely missed all the time . cathal marsh endured a tough evening in glasgow last time out , but others like garry ringrose , james tracy , dan leavy and mick kearney have performed with opportunity .  with their full contingent of returning ireland players , leinster will be keen to make a statement against munster in the aviva stadium on 2 april , but will be eyeing saturday 's meeting with connacht as their opportunity to step out at the top of the table .  ulster have been a beacon of inconsistency , a little like munster , with their recent record reading wlwwwllw . as is the theme over the remaining rounds , les kiss ' side meet three of their direct play-off rivals in their final five to garner favour with joe schmidt , while captain rory best and experienced wing andrew trimble will be welcome returnees .  sixth-placed glasgow are a real threat to ulster and munster , as gregor townsend 's side find themselves on a good run and with a game in hand still . winning away to the warriors this weekend would be a huge feat for the northern province , both on the table and in terms of stifling some of the scots ' momentum .  anthony foley 's munster are perhaps more in need of their international contingent that any of the other provinces . the return of cj stander will be the biggest boost of all for weary supporters , though conor murray has also been dearly , dearly missed .  darren sweetnam has been given chances in recent times . source : ryan byrne/inpho  of their last six games , munster have won three and lost three , with their performance levels having been far from convincing . backing against them making the play-offs is certainly justifiable , and foley must hope the likes of stander lurking four points behind munster in seventh place , and with alan solomons ' side still to play the dragons , zebre and cardiff , nothing can be taken for granted .  welcoming zebre to thomond park this weekend could not be any more timely , and a bonus-point win is an absolute must .  third-placed scarlets are key players in all of this too , of course , and wayne pivac 's men meet both glasgow and munster in their own run-in , the latter fixture likely to prove decisive on that final day of the regular season .  while the focus for the irish provinces is on being part of that top four in order to secure a semi-final spot , it 's worth underlining how the qualification for next season 's champions cup works too .  given the fact that it 's a world cup season , there will be no inter-league play-offs this time around connacht lost to gloucester in last season 's .  the seven highest-ranked pro12 clubs , based on their regular-season finishing positions , will go into the 2016/17 least one club from each of ireland , italy , scotland and wales .  if the table was to stay exactly as it is now , then all four irish provinces would qualify and seventh-placed edinburgh would have to give up their spot in order to accommodate zebre , the one italian club .  however , if munster or ulster were to end the season in seventh place , they would need connacht to win the challenge cup in order to rescue their champions cup place for 2016/17 .  without the inter-league play-offs this season , the 20th place in the champions cup goes to the winners of the challenge cup , which did n't happen last season .  if the challenge cup winner has already qualified for next season 's champions cup on account of their finishing position in their league , however , then the next highest-ranked club from the same league who has n't yet qualified of course gets in .  munster will be hoping and expecting that such a scenario will be avoided of course . if foley 's men can find maintain their positions , we may even have all-irish semi-finals .  the scarlets , glasgow and edinburgh will have something to say about that , while even the ospreys might think they have an outside chance .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.