Nobel Prize winner, Malala Yousafzai, condemns 'senseless ...
http://www.irishexaminer.com/world/nobel-prize-winner-malala-yousafzai-condemns-senseless-bombing-in-pakistan-389903.html

she called for pakistan and the world to stand together , adding : " every life is precious and must be respected and protected . "  more than 300 were injured in the attack , many seriously , after a device was detonated near children 's rides while families celebrated easter .  a breakaway pakistani faction of the taliban claimed responsibility for the carnage and said it had deliberately targeted the christian community .  however , most of those killed were muslims -- with 14 having been identified as christians , according to lahore police superintendent mohammed iqbal .  british prime minister david cameron , who used his easter message to urge britons of all faiths to stand up for christian values , said the attack shocked him .  " my thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims . we will do what we can to help , " mr cameron posted on his twitter feed .  labour leader jeremy corbyn said : " my thoughts are with the victims and the family of the victims of the facebook founder mark zuckerberg has spoken out against the " fear and distrust " spread by the recent wave of terror attacks -- and called for love and empathy to combat them .  the tech entrepreneur said atrocities in belgium , pakistan , and turkey were all designed to sow seeds of hatred between different communities .  writing on his facebook page , he wrote : " each of these attacks was different , but all had a common thread : they were carried out with a goal to spread fear and distrust , and turn members of a community against each other .  " i believe the only sustainable way to fight back against those who seek to divide us is to create a world where understanding and empathy can spread faster than hate , and where every single person in every country feels connected and cared for and loved . "  at least 70 people were killed when a taliban splinter group detonated a bomb in lahore , pakistan , on easter sunday .