Plaque to Ada English to be unveiled after 1916 conference tomorrow
http://www.westmeathexaminer.ie/news/roundup/articles/2016/04/08/4117703-plaque-to-ada-english-to-be-unveiled-after-1916-conference-tomorrow/

plaque to ada english to be unveiled after 1916 conference tomorrow  a major conference on the 1916 rising will take place in the greville arms hotel , mullingar on saturday next , april 9 , hosted by westmeath archaeological and historical society in association with westmeath county council and ireland 2016 .  this first ever wahs conference will feature local and national speakers and will culminate , later on saturday , in the unveiling of a plaque to cumann na mban 1916 veteran dr ada english ( pictured ) , who grew up in mullingar .  it will be opened by cllr paul daly , chairman of westmeath county council , at 9.45am on saturday ( registration at 9.15am ) , with lectures continuing until 3.30pm . immediately afterwards , the plaque to dr english will be unveiled at 27 pearse street ( now danny byrne 's ) , where the english family lived , and where her father ran a pharmacy .  professor brendan kelly , associate clinical professor at university college , dublin -- whose family also has mullingar connections ( ) -- will explore dr english 's connections to the rising and the subsequent war of independence .  the programme is varied and very interesting . a mixture of local and national speakers will explore this defining moment in our history .  westmeath examiner journalist paul hughes , a phd student at queen 's university , belfast , will examine the impact of the gaelic league and the irish language on westmeath mp laurence ginnell 's road to radicalisation , culminating in his support for the rebels of 1916 . a plaque to the memory of ginnell is to be unveiled in mullingar the following friday night ( april 15 ) .  local historian and author ruth illingworth will describe social , economic and political developments in mullingar in 1916 . a major theme of the centenary celebrations has been a re-examination of the role played by women in the rising . dublin historian liz gillis will explore this theme at the conference .  not everyone agreed with the rebels or their objectives . widely published author and historian padraig yeates will explore the many reactions to course destroyed as a result of the rising . several important battles took place and paul o'brien will elaborate on these .  moyvore resident dr ciaran mccabe ( irchss postdoctoral fellow , nui galway ) will bring proceedings to a close before the unveiling of the plaque to dr english . relatives of dr ada will be in attendance , having travelled from the uk specially for this important occasion .  spaces will fill up quickly , so interested parties are encouraged to register early . the conference will be open for registration at 9.15 pm on saturday , or you can contact members of the society before hand .  admission is ? 20 , including dinner , refreshments and a specially commissioned brochure .  explore our range of services  cookies on westmeath examiner website  we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website . we also use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you . if you continue without changing your settings , we 'll assume that you are happy to receive all you would like to , you can change your cookie settings at any time by amending your browser settings .  how does westmeath examiner use cookies ?  cookies enable us to identify your device , or you when you have logged in . we use cookies that are strictly necessary to enable you to move around the site or to provide certain basic features . we use cookies to enhance the functionality of the website by storing your preferences , for example . we also use cookies to help us to improve the performance of our website to provide you with a better user experience . we don ? t sell the information collected by cookies , nor do we disclose the information to third parties , except where required by law ( for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies ) .