Married At First Sight: 22 things you didn't know about the UK show
http://lifestyle.one/closer/entertainment/soaps/married-first-sight-legal-wedding-apply-application-form-channel-4/

are the weddings legal ? who pays for the divorce ? and how do you apply ? here 's everything you need to know about channel 4 's married at first sight  1 ) a lot of people applied to take part  over 1,500 people applied to take part in the first series , but experts whittled them down to just three couples .  2 ) but the show was pushed back because a lot of people got cold feet  according to reports , channel 4 was forced to push back married at first sight twice because candidates kept getting cold feet .  3 ) they take their matchmaking very seriously  married at first sight sees a panel of experts -- including evolutionary anthropologist anna machin , psycho-sexual therapist and psychologist jo coker , psychology professor dr mark coulson and priest reverend nick devenish -- working together to pair up singletons . they genuinely want this experiment to work .  4 ) which means that the application process is intense  the experts put candidates through workshops , interviews , of which can take over 12 hours to complete ) until they had 15 candidates with particularly strong matches .  they narrowed this down even further when they took deal breakers into account , such as smoking .  in the end , three strong couples were identified and matched - although only two of them ever made it down the aisle !  5 ) the wedding will be a civil ceremony  to avoid criticism form religious groups , all of the marriages on married at first sight began with a civil ceremony . you can find out more about the legalities and requirements of a civil ceremony here .  6 ) the marriages are legit  a legal wedding requires a marriage license , containing vital information of the spouse - and couples do sign one immediately after the ceremony .  7 ) but they are given legal protection if it all goes wrong  speaking to the wrap , chris coelen - who works on the us version of the show - explained : " there is a prenup that is built in . basically says what they walk in to the marriage with , is what they walk out of the marriage with . "  " we want to give them some protection walking in . if for some reason it does not work out , at least you are protected with this basic form .  " you are not going to get yourself in to any legal trouble . once they are in to the marriage , everything is completely up to them .  8 ) couples do n't get paid to take part  as jessie j would say , it 's not about the money , money , money .  9 ) but they do get an all-expenses paid honeymoon  so that 's something , eh ?  10 ) they do have to live together for six weeks  yup , couples will spend six weeks living together as man and wife -- at the end of which they decide whether to stay together or call it a day .  11 ) some of the couples did n't know it would be televised  married james ord-hume for the show , told this morning : " initially i did n't know it would be televised . i 'm finding the television part very difficult . "  12 ) jason and kate split when she found him on tinder  yup , they looked like they had a lot of potential , even sharing a steamy snog in their honeymoon jacuzzi .  but , just two weeks after their february wedding , it was all over .  kate had found out that jason had been using dating app tinder - even swiping right on one of her friends . awkward .  it took eight months for the matter to reach court , where court paperwork revealed that the bride wanted the marriage nullified because jason had " wilfully " refused to consummate the marriage .  13 ) sam and jack split before the wedding  sam pulled out of the wedding before she married jack , but , in a strange twist , they met up off-screen and embarked on a relationship .  after a few months , however , one ; they just were n't meant to be .  14 ) james and emma stayed together - but have now filed for divorce  james and emma were the show 's surprise success , choosing to stay married and give their relationship a go .  the final episode showed them kissing for the first time and heading on holiday together - but , tragically , it wo n't meant to be .  they have since confirmed that they are no longer together , and are no longer friends on facebook , suggesting that they wo n't even be sharing a platonic relationship .  15 ) the show will help pay for a divorce - but there 's a catch  according to the executive producer of the us show , if the couples decide to go for divorce , married at first dight does not bear the divorce costs .  he added that they provide assistance only " within a certain period " to cover the legal costs , although the amount provided is very nominal .