Cue Card and Don Cossack head impressive field for Punchestown ...
http://www.the42.ie/punchestown-gold-cup-entries-2016-2710227-Apr2016/

Cue Card and Don Cossack head impressive field for Punchestown Gold Cup  As many as nine of the 11 Grade 1 winners from Aintree could make an appearance in Kildare .  Bryan Cooper on Don Cossack after their Cheltenham Gold Cup win last month .  Image : Mike Egerton  CUE CARD AND Don Cossack look set to add another chapter to their enthralling rivalry in the Punchestown Gold Cup in just over two weeks ' time .  Gordon Elliott 's Cheltenham Gold Cup winner and Colin Tizzard 's impressive Betfred Bowl victor in Aintree last week top a stellar 20-strong field of horses for the Punchestown showpiece .  Ryanair Chase winner Vautour , who suffered a shock fall at Aintree last Friday , is also a likely runner in the race for Willie Mullins .  Cue Card fell at the third last fence in the Cheltenham Gold Cup last month when he looked set to mount a serious challenge for glory in the blue riband event .  Nine of the 11 Grade 1 winners from Aintree 's Grand National while nine of the 13 Grade 1 winners from last month 's Cheltenham Festival are engaged .  TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.