Family denied emergency lodging as they 'don't have credit card'
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/courts/high-court/family-denied-emergency-lodging-as-they-don-t-have-credit-card-1.2614926

By using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .  Family denied emergency lodging as they ' do n't have credit card '  Limerick couple seeks High Court order compelling council to accommodate them  about 14 hours ago  Aodhan O'Faolain  A homeless couple and their two children have been unable to secure emergency accommodation because they do not have a credit card , the High Court has heard . Photograph : Bryan O'Brien .  A homeless couple and their two children have been unable to secure emergency accommodation because they do not have a credit card , the High Court has heard .  John and Kathleen O'Reilly and their two children had been living in accommodation at a temporary bay at Childers Road Halting Site in Limerick since 2008 .  The family , members of the Travelling community , left the site last March due to a number of factors including that the temporary bay had allegedly deteriorated to a state rendering it no longer fit the site was attracting rats and mice , there were holes in the roof and the floor of the accommodation , and the temporary bay was covered in damp and mould , the court heard .  A fire , caused by an electrical fault , had also damaged the washing facility at the site they had been using .  The family left the site and have been living in a rented caravan at different locations but this was neither suitable nor affordable , the court heard .  They are now homeless and sought emergency accommodation from Limerick City and County Council .  B&amp;B  On March 22nd last the council agreed it would cover the cost of providing emergency accommodation to the family but they have been unable to secure a suitable B&amp;B , it was stated .  Siobh ? n Phelan SC , for the family , said B&amp;B owners will not take a booking from them because the family do not have a credit card . The family want the council to intervene directly and provide them emergency accommodation , she said .  authorities ' housing list since 2008 and hope to be provided with social housing .  In their High Court judicial review action against the council , the O'Reilly 's are seeking an order compelling the local authority to comply with its decision of March 22nd to provide them with emergency accommodation .  They also seek declarations , including that the failure to provide them with emergency breaches their rights under the European Convention on Human Rights . They are also seeking damages .  Permission to bring the action was granted , on an ex-parte basis , by Mr Justice Richard Humphreys , who returned the matter to later this month .