Man jailed for five years for concealing murder victim's body 'in ...
http://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/man-jailed-for-five-years-for-concealing-murder-victims-body-in-wardrobe-and-cleaning-up-bloody-scene-34637918.html

Man jailed for five years for concealing murder victim 's body ' in wardrobe ' and cleaning up bloody scene  Alison O'Riordan  A Dublin man previously convicted of killing a man and his pregnant girlfriend by setting a fire in their flat has been jailed for five years for concealing a murder victim 's body and cleaning up the murder scene .  Anthony Locke ( 38 ) of Ramilies Road in Ballyfermot , had pleaded not guilty to the murder of Mr Christopher Jackson ( 53 ) at his apartment on Prussia Street , between September 6 and 7 , 2012 .  In November last year at the Central Criminal Court , a jury of six women and six men took six hours and 47 minutes to come to a majority verdict of 10 to two that Locke was not guilty of murder but guilty of impeding the apprehension of a person who he knew or believed to be guilty of murder .  His brother Bernard Locke had pleaded guilty to the murder of Mr Jackson and was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1998 Anthony Locke was jailed for ten years for starting a fire in a flat which caused the deaths of a man and his pregnant girlfriend .  He pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of Gerard Kavanagh ( 30 ) and his girlfriend Mary Core ( 29 ) at Decies Road , Ballyfermot on February 18 , 1995 .  On January 21 2016 , Mr Justice Patrick McCarthy told defence counsel Mr Padraig Dwyer SC that this case appeared " in principle to be an appropriate case for a partial suspension of a custodial sentence . "  The judge told Mr Dwyer that his " concern " would be that the condition of Anthony Locke " be monitored " and " how that would be done . "  Mr Dwyer suggested at the time that the court put back the sentencing date to await a " probation report " which can take between four and six weeks .  " As a matter of principle it is a case where a judge ought to consider this course of action , " said Mr Justice McCarthy .  read the report from the probation service .  Mr Dwyer , counsel for the accused , said this was a " positive report " as it disclosed that Mr Locke had " general remorse for his actions . "  He asked the court to follow the recommendations of the probation report .  Mr Dwyer said his client went into custody on September 9 2012 and was remanded in Cloverhill Prison on September 11 2012 .  " That is three years and seven months and that is the equivalent of a five year sentence , " said Mr Dwyer .  Mr Justice McCarthy said that the probation report says Mr Locke is at " high risk of re-offending in the next 12 months . "  The court heard Mr Locke is alcohol free , compliant with his medication regime and " wants to turn his life around . "  The judge said the reason he adjourned the sentencing date was the reference to the fear of Mr Locke re-offending within the next 12 months " which is a readily short period of time . " of this matter with the conditions attached he would be obliged .  Mr Justice McCarthy said this matter came before him for sentencing where the accused concealed the body of the deceased and subsequently cleaned up the apartment where the murder had occurred .  " This must be regarded as being considerably serious and towards the top of the scale of offences of this kind . The body was concealed in a highly elaborate manner using a duvet , plastic refuse sacks but there was also extensive cleaning done , therefore one can not but regard it in that light , " he said .  He said Mr Locke had also been involved in arson offences where he set a house alight and two people were burnt .  " He is a man who undoubtedly had difficulties in his life with alcohol and drug abuse . He is of modest education and formed a relationship which lasted for many years until his partner died . He is regarded as a person with cognitive abilities significantly below the average in society and has suffered from suicidal ideations , was a case where there is a willingness by Mr Locke " to reform himself " but nonetheless these convictions " must be considered as serious offences . "  He said it was a " clear case " where Mr Locke was " under some form of duress or pressure . "  The judge said that while the deceased had difficulties with alcohol and drugs , his life was " as precious as anyone else 's . "  Mr Justice McCarthy then said the appropriate sentence was a term of imprisonment of eight years but he would suspend " a substantial part of that sentence for pleading guilty . "  " I might have considered a lower sentence were it not for the probation services . In light of that fact the rehabilitation in prison will be to benefit , " he said .  Mr Justice McCarthy then sentenced Locke to eight years in prison with the final three years suspended .  He then backdated the sentence to September 9 2012 and ordered Locke to comply with probation services upon his release .  On called Detective Garda Michael Donlon of the Bridewell Garda station to take the stand .  The court heard that " no person wished to record anything in relation " to the deceased Mr Christopher Jackson .  Det Gda Donlon agreed with Mr Devally that Anthony Locke had twenty previous convictions dating back to 1995 and these included criminal damage and larceny .  The court heard a " very serious event " happened in 1995 when a fire was started by Mr Locke in a flat which caused the deaths of two people .  " This resulted in a trial and sentence was imposed on Mr Locke in March 1998 . There was two convictions for arson and two for manslaughter arising from the accused setting fire to a premises where two people died , " said Mr Devally .  The court heard Mr Locke has already served the ten year prison sentence with the last three suspended .  Det Gda Donlon agreed with counsel that on Anthony Locke 's release the next recorded conviction was in 2006 " under the Drugs Act . "  primary physical activity " Anthony Locke engaged in was to place the body of Mr Jackson in the " wardrobe , clean up the flat and get rid of any materials that were covered in blood . "  The court heard Mr Locke did not " exercise his right to be silent " in his interviews with the gardai and " provided an account " of what happened .  " He suggested to you that a mobile phone could be found at a certain location ? " asked Mr Dwyer .  " Yes but that was never located , " replied Det Gda Donlon .  Mr Dwyer asked the court to bear in mind the circumstances under which the offence was committed .  " Bernard Locke murdered an individual and requested Anthony Locke to clean up the premises and put the body away in a wardrobe at a time when Anthony Locke was morally weakened by the effects of alcohol over him , " said counsel ,  Mr Dwyer said the court would have heard evidence that Bernard Locke was " bullying , domineering and air of intimidation in and around the premises at the time of the offence . "  The court heard that Anthony Locke has since " disassociated " himself from his brother .  " He comes before the court obviously as a troubled man , his upbringing was quite dysfunctional and both parents had difficulty with alcohol which created a fraught atmosphere in the home , " said Mr Dwyer .  Counsel also told the court that a psychological report showed that Anthony Locke had self harmed and he was " negatively affected by an incident " as a child when he was assaulted by an older person .  The court heard Anthony Locke suffered a " serious bereavement " when his long term partner died in 2009 .  " They had arranged to marry two week after the actual date of death which led to an escalation of drink and drug abuse , " said Mr Dwyer .  Counsel said his client " did suffer remorse " in relation to starting the fire in 1995 .  Counsel asked the court to bear in mind having a " willingness to engage with group therapy . "