21 things you'll hear during every episode of Dragons Den
http://www.her.ie/movies-tv/21-things-youll-hear-during-every-episode-of-dragons-den/288376

21 things you 'll hear during every episode of Dragons Den  It 's a brilliant programme that combines two of my favourite things : desperation and money . I wish more television shows were like Dragons Den . Imagine if the X Factor judges had wads of cash on the desk in front of them during auditions . Beggars belief !  The dragons are stern but fair , meaning the people looking for investments are generally quivering with nerves . All it takes is a free sample to have those Dragons warming to them like a rabbit to a balloon .  1 . It 's a family run business , I 've always had a passion for shoelaces , from a very young age it was all I could think about .  2 . I 'm looking for ? 1.6m for 5% of the business . I think it 's a fair margin and I 'm not willing to negotiate .  3 . What I 've got here is a product that can and will change life as we know it : ) .  4 . I want a dragon with the expertise and market knowledge to help me bring my waterproof sponges all the way to the top .  5 . There is a patent pending for the last 37 years so we 're hopeful that it will come through in the next few months , please God .  6 . I 'm going to make you an offer of ? 12 but in return , I want 90% of your company . Do we have a deal ?  7 . These multicoloured dishwasher tablets have a very special place in my heart . When I was younger , I ate a dishwasher tablet and was excreting bubbles for days . I told my Mam we should have multicoloured tablets so if it happened again , I would have rainbow farts .  8 . Sorry to cut across you Michael , but who 's Annette Profit ?  9 . Now I know nothing about technology , so explain this to me as if you were talking to a child . A multimillionaire child .  Advertisement plasters out there and if you guys ca n't see it , maybe I 've brought my million Euro idea to the wrong place .  11 . This is a massive opportunity and I 'm happy to welcome any questions that the dragons might have .  12 . At what point will we get to see some actual dragons ?  13 . I like to think of myself as a young Bill Cullen .  14 . My projected profit for year three is ? 10b and I am confident we will get there .  15 . I 'd like to take a minute to have a think about this if it 's ok ? *walks over to wall and bangs head against it repeatedly until the producer forces him to stop*  16 . I 've a lot of interest from all the big supermarkets so to be honest , I 'm just here to be on the telly .  17 . Hi Paul , my name is Gavin . " Hi Gavin , I know " .  18 . It 's a special It 's like nothing you 've ever seen before .  19 . I tweeted a picture of this product to Paul Walker before he died and he said it looked cool . If you refuse to make me an offer , you are doing his memory a disservice .  20 . Please , I need this . My family are starving . I 've put all of our money into these glow-in-the-dark yo-yos and if I return home without so much as a tenner I am dead meat .  21 . I 've never seen the need for one Justin Bieber , so the idea of a second one just is n't for me . It is for this reason , I 'm out .