Those who did this to my husband's grave make me sick to my ...
http://www.derryjournal.com/news/those-who-did-this-to-my-husband-s-grave-make-me-sick-to-my-stomach-1-7335452

those who did this to my husband 's grave make me sick to my stomach  shaun kelly was a huge fan of biking .  erin hutcheon  a derry woman has spoken of her devastation after a sentimental ornament from her husband 's grave was destroyed on sunday night .  sharon kelly was speaking after a number of graves in derry 's city cemetery , including her husband shaun 's , were damaged in an act that has been condemned locally as " shameless vandalism . "  teddies on children 's graves were ripped apart , ornaments were smashed and a cross was knocked over at a number of graves in the new part of derry city cemetery . police are investigating and have appealed for witnesses to come forward .  " my husband shaun was a biker , " said sharon kelly . " my cousin had put an ornament of a bike on the grave .  " when i heard about the damage i had to get up to the cemetery to check the grave . the ornament was broken off and the light was gone .  " i am so angry , i just do n't understand how anyone could do this . it just makes you sick to your stomach .  " why would anyone do this . this is where i go to remember shaun and get some peace . we are still coming to terms with losing him , and for this to happen just makes me sick . "  sinn fein candidate for the upcoming election maeve mclaughlin said she was shocked when she visited the cemetery to find ornaments smashed and teddies that were placed on a child 's grave ripped apart .  " it is shocking that there could be so little respect , " she said . " this is a place were people are grieving , and dealing with their loss .  " i spoke to council workers on the site who said that they had never seen anything like this .  " the people who caused this damage need to realise that it is not only physical damage they are causing but also deep they also need to realise that they will someday have close family members interned in the cemetery and think of how they would feel if they arrived to find the grave of a loved one desecrated .  " i would appeal to parents to ensure that their children are not involved in this activity and for anyone who see any suspicious activity around the cemetery to report it immediately . "  sdlp derry councillor brian tierney has condemned the incident as " senseless " and " disgusting . "  chair of the environment and regeneration committee on derry and strabane district council , mr tierney said :  " i was absolutely appalled to see the scenes of reckless vandalism .  " this is a place where people come to pay solemn and personal respect to loved ones in peace . to see it in this state must have been deeply upsetting for those coming to visit family memorials .  " how would those behind this wanton destruction feel if it was their mother or their grandmother coming to a graveside this morning to find their 'll be working with council officers to ensure that these sites are protected from this callous vandalism . "  psni inspector alison ferguson is appealing for anyone who witnessed the incident or anyone with any information that can assist with the investigation to contact police in strand road on 101 .  information can also be passed anonymously via the independent charity crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 .  this website and its associated newspaper adheres to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the editor by clicking here .  if you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the ipso by clicking here .  derry journal provides news , events and sport features from the derry area . for the best up to date information relating to derry and the surrounding areas visit us at derry journal regularly or bookmark this page .  for you to enjoy all the features of this website derry journal requires permission to use cookies . ?  what is a flash cookie ?  can i opt out of receiving cookies ?  about our cookies  cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( internet explorer , firefox , chrome etc ) from a website you visit . they are stored on your electronic device .  this is a type of cookie which is collected by adobe flash media player ( it is also called a local shared object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  however , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  technology partners use are listed below :  revenue science ?  a tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  google ads ?  our sites contain advertising from google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . you can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  digital analytics ?  this is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . this data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  dart for publishers ?  this comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  comscore ?  comscore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  local targeting ?  our classified websites ( photos , motors , jobs and property today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . these cookies store no personally identifiable information .  grapeshot ?  we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  subscriptions online ?  our partner for newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  add this ?  add this provides the this widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .