The Street Food Sessions in Billy Byrne's with Little Black Wren
http://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/what-s-on/206203/The-Street-Food-Sessions-in-Billy.html

the street food sessions in billy byrne 's with little black wren  20 apr 2016  0  little black wren will be performing in a unique setting on friday at 8pm . the bula bus at billy byrnes bar , john street will host the street food sessions with a three-course street food dinner served on the upper deck as the songwriter and singer shares her captivating alternative folk sounds .  little black wren is nestled in the quiet county kilkenny countryside where she writes on a little hill , sometimes venturing out to record at crossroads recording . you 'll also hear her voice on collaborative projects , with vocals and co-writing on the midnight union band 's single ' rising sun ' , the folk song ' all things have their time ' that she wrote for the short documentary ' scent of barley ' and recorded with justin cullen of frankenstein bolts , and as the singer of ' go to sleep my baby ' in the animated film ' moonman ' . she was a finalist in the 2015 christie competition .  with seating limited to 25 it is essential to book for this intimate musical dinner . tickets are 25 euro . call the bula bus on 086 220 6697 . x  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : kilkenny people , high street , kilkennyemail : **33;192;toolong : 056 7791000  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie kilkenny people provides news , events and sport features from the kilkenny area . for the best up to date information relating to kilkenny and the surrounding areas visit us at kilkenny people regularly or bookmark this page .