Bringing Friel's Translations back to a Kilkenny audience
http://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/what-s-on/206200/Bringing-Friel-s-Translations-back-to.html

bringing friel 's translations back to a kilkenny audience  24pt sub head  20 apr 2016  0  s  the barnstorm-watergate joint production of brian friel 's translations is gearing up for its opening on 27 april .  director philip hardy had just founded barnstorm theatre company when he directed the play on the watergate stage in 1994 , the year the theatre opened . the 1994 programme features an introduction from ger cody , manager of the watergate , welcoming the production which featured cast from kilkenny : ber o ' hara , helen walsh , ann widger , niall fitzpatrick and liz fitzgerald . at that time , philip hardy wrote that " the watergate theatre is a symbol of the ongoing commitment to developing theatre in kilkenny . " how prescient !  this 2016 production of translations features actors from the south-east , many of whom are familiar faces from plays presented over the years by kats theatre group , devious theatre , watergate productions , barn owl players , new theatre group and kilkenny musical society , to in kilkenny over the last 25 years . the set is designed by harry harris , who also designed 1994 's production .  meet the cast  in the first of our meet the cast features , three of the 10 actors from translations give us insights into their acting experiences , their earliest visit to the watergate theatre and recall of leaving cert plays they studied , some more recent than others ! translations is a comparative text on the leaving certificate english curriculum .  alan butler  alan plays lieutenant george yolland . alan describes him as a " doomed romantic , very passionate and idealistic and very much a soldier by accident . yolland always has the best intentions at heart but perhaps sees the world though rose-tinted glasses -- which in the tumultuous setting of 1833 's donegal in 1883 is not conducive to self-preservation . "  alan grew up in owning , near piltown and made his stage debut , as a very unsure 22-year old , as christy mahon in shruggawada players production of the playboy of the western world .  both on stage and back stage -- most recently directing shadow of a gunman for kats theatre group . " my first time on the watergate was in watergate productions ' wild harvest written by kilkenny resident ken bourke . in another theatrical connection barnstorm produced wild harvest on the watergate stage back in 1994 , when it was directed by vincent dempsey , barnstorm 's current manager .  alan ca n't recall the first play he attended at the watergate but he is a now a regular theatre-goer . " i came late to acting but feel we 're lucky in kilkenny to have so many fantastic local productions -- not to mention the touring companies -- and we 've had some really brilliant plays on our doorstep for years now . "  he recalls studying macbeth for the leaving cert and says " i loved it ! the complexity of the characters , the dynamics of their own individual struggles and how much a broad and and complicated situation can be driven by , essentially , base emotions . i was lucky to have a hugely passionate english and to act . "  maria murray  maria murray has been embedded in the kilkenny theatre scene from a young age , having worked with kilkenny musical society , kilkenny youth musical productions , dreamstuff , devious theatre , little theatre company , equinox theatre , trasna productions . she has appeared in films produced by mycrofilms and young irish filmmakers .  in translations maria plays bridget . maria says bridget is " a bit wild . she is always ready to laugh and joke and is comfortable with doalty , her partner-in-crime , to play tricks on the english soldiers . she loves to hear and tell all the gossip but sometimes she speaks with thinking . while she might be a bit na ? ve she has no problem going toe-to-toe with the exuberant doalty . "  the first play that maria saw at the watergate was silly bits of sky , a barnstorm play for children written by maeve ingoldsby but it was n't the best introduction to theatre as maria was sick that day and " had to sit at the back not put her off , and maria remembers later being very taken with kilkenny musical society 's the mikado in 1996 .  it was not long before she was on the stage with kms in her debut , carousel . maria is no stranger to the watergate stage since , as she followed that performance with kymp 's oklahoma , calamity jane and little shop of horrors ; shruggawada players ' colleen bawn , romeo and juliet , 3 musketeers , zorro and latterly with devious theatre ' s cannibal the musical , trainspotting , stags and hens and night of the living dead .  maria works with equinox , an inclusive theatre company in callan and toured recently with their play , memory box . as she had the joy of sitting the leaving cert twice , maria had a good run at the shakespeare ; macbeth the first time , followed by hamlet . " i found both interesting because both plays had characters that i wanted to play . i loved the idea of reading dialogue that actors had been reading for centuries , but i teacher did well as he kept it interesting . he is a theatre buff too . hello mr o ' leary ! "  paul derby  although living in thomastown now paul derby , who plays owen m ? r , has connections with a few places ; he was born in cork and grew up in cashel co tipperary .  paul 's acting experience in kilkenny kicked off with the two-year adult theatre club programme at barnstorm and he then he went on to join barn owl players . the first plays he performed in were the barn owls ' productions of someone to watch over me and anybody for tea . he has performed with kats theatre group several times : playing forrest gump in the production spoiler alert and then , in his watergate debut , he played aide warren in kats ' one flew over the cuckoo 's nest .  " the first play i saw in the watergate was in 2013 , and it would have been because of the barnstorm theatre club . the watergate often offered a group rate to drama at the venue . the first one i saw was a touring company called theatre t ? moin with their play , the fantasist . it was a very physical performance , combing puppetry with acting , using puppetry in a different way to what you would expect . it was interesting . "  in a unique take on preparation of the leaving cert english text , paul 's teacher got the class to record a radio play of philadelphia here i come , another friel play . paul played gar o ' donnell 's father , sb o donnell , who is referred to as " screwballs " in the play . paul says , " i loved the play . the teacher was very inspiring . he was interested in getting a good performance out of everyone . it really gave me an appreciation for the material . "  it has served him well , this exploration of brian friel 's material . paul describes his character in translations . " owen hugh is the son of the hedge-school master , hugh m ? r , and been living in dublin and appears , on the face of it , to have made something of himself . he returns under the auspices of working as a civil interpreter for the royal engineers who are mapping the island , starting with ballybeg , owen 's home place . owen speaks irish and english fluently , and so he acts as a go-between when communication is required between the locals and the british soldiers . "  s ? amus greene lives in freshford . s ? amus is from dublin oringially and started acting at school there . for his leaving cert he he studied othello and sean o'casey 's juno and the paycock . " my english and drama teacher , martin kelly , was brilliant . his classes and rehearsals were always challenging and great fun . i remember thinking that mr keating in the film ' dead poets society ' must have been based on him . "  s ? amus has taken on the role of joxer in the o'casey play but he says of othello , " i was fascinated by iago , play him some day . "  s ? amus joined dramsoc in ucd and that was where he really fell in love with acting .  he was an active member of st patrick 's dramatic society , dalkey after college and eventually found his way to barnstorm 's adult theatre club after he moved to kilkenny .  the first play seamus saw on stage at the watergate was john b keane 's the field . in translations he plays manus , the school-master 's eldest son , who is " effectively an unpaid assistant who runs the hedge-school . he 's a good teacher who cares about his students , particularly sarah . he loves maire and they appear to have an understanding , but his sense of obligation to hugh ruins any hopes of a life with her . " this will be seamus ' first performance on the watergate stage .  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : kilkenny people , high street , kilkennyemail : **33;265;toolong : 056 7791000  this website and its associated newspaper and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie kilkenny people provides news , events and sport features from the kilkenny area . for the best up to date information relating to kilkenny and the surrounding areas visit us at kilkenny people regularly or bookmark this page .