Oh when the Delta Saints come.... ....
http://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/what-s-on/206199/Oh-when-the-Delta-Saints-come.html

oh when the delta saints come .... ....  the smithwick 's kilkenny roots festival has built its reputation on bringing performers to ireland before anyone else has noticed them .  in the past acts such as ryan adams , calexico , ray lamontagne and alabama shakes have all made their irish festival debuts in kilkenny before going on to huge acclaim around the world .  this year a new clutch of acts arrive in kilkenny that will be unknown to all but the most discerning music fans , but are very likely to make a big impression in the coming years .  the delta saints are a case in point . the nashville based band has been around for a few years , but arrive in kilkenny with a new record deal and a new album to promote .  " we 've tried for years to get into ireland and the uk , but have only played mainland europe up until his year , " said the band 's bass player , david supica , on the phone from nashville . " able to make ireland due to financial reasons in the past . but  luckily , our time has come and we get to enjoy our irish debut in a few short weeks . "  nashville to kilkenny for two nights and then straight back home seems like a tough schedule , but it does n't seem to bother the delta saints .  " honestly , it 's pretty ideal ! " says david . " our typical us tour schedule can involve some insane drives ( sometimes 10 and 12 hours ) in our van which we 're driving ourselves . i 'd much rather just sit on an airplane for 8 hours and arrive at our beautiful destination after a few beers and a couple of  hours sleep . obviously the jet lag is never fun , but it 's worth it to finally get to ireland . we 've been looking forward to this day for quite some time . "  the typical kilkenny roots festival programme ranges from the quiet , introspective solo artists through to louder , rocking bands , particularly for latter . we 've grown a lot as a band over the years . our first ep would be considered extremely rootsy , but since then our sound has gotten a bit more experimental and a much more electric . we 're proud of our roots in blues music , but have been trying to push the bounds of the genre in recent years . "  trying to describe their style is not so easy . they have drawn comparisons to bands as diverse as led zeppelin and african band , tinariwen . " we 're all very dedicated to constant evolution and change . if two albums sound the same , then what 's the point of releasing a new album ? it 's really quite a balancing act . to put out new material that will both please fans of our older music , but push them to new musical territory . sometimes we 're more successful than others , but we 're always trying to bring our old fans with us into our newer sound . if you listen to pray on ( our oldest release ) we want you to hear the same band but in a completely new light . "  despite the strains of constant touring and the financial pressures of the current music business , the band have managed to keep going and have now signed a deal with the prestigious loud and proud label ( which has been home to lynyrd skynyrd , kiss , robert plant and lenny kravitz ) in the usa .  " we were lucky to find a home at l&amp;p . releasing music independently is rewarding but ridiculously hard work . with how demanding our tour schedule is , it 's nice to be able to hand over the reins to a competent company and just focusing on writing music and touring . we 've been hard at work demoing some new songs ( that we may debut in kilkenny ! ) and looking toward recording a new album . " the delta saints will arrive in kilkenny next weekend for two shows and will be back home in nashville at the same time as the festival concludes . their first show is at kytelers at the set theatre on sunday may 1 at 11pm .  tickets for all shows through the festival website , www.kilkennyroots.com , or from rollercoaster records , tel 0567763669 .  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : kilkenny people , high street , kilkennyemail : **33;425;toolong : 056 7791000  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie kilkenny people provides news , events and sport features from the kilkenny area . for the best up to date information relating to kilkenny and the surrounding areas visit us at kilkenny people regularly or bookmark this page .