Watch: England Coach Eddie Jones Reveals Which Footballer He ...
http://www.punditarena.com/football/sokeefe/watch-england-coach-eddie-jones-reveals-which-footballer-he-believes-could-play-rugby/

the australian was full of praise for hiddink 's achievements -- notably his success with south korea at the 2002 world cup -- and revealed that the two had plenty in common :  " i was in a similar position of putting a demoralised side back together so we were comparing notes . i picked up three or four really great ideas and that is the great thing . "  where hiddink has merely steadied the ship at chelsea , however , jones has already reversed the fortunes of english rugby by winning the six nations in only his first few months in charge .  jones is a follower of football and referenced liverpool 's extraordinary three-goal comeback against dortmund last week as an example of why he likes the game . he also mentioned england 's recent 3-2 win against world champions germany , where he singled out one player in particular that he feels could switch sports and play rugby at a high standard ...  " looking at england 's game against germany , i thought , the speed and precision you know , he could play rugby , he 'd be a terrific player . "  20 year old alli has earned rave reviews for his performances for tottenham this season -- not only is he the red-hot favourite for this season 's young player of the year award , but he is also likely to be an important part of roy hodgson 's england plans at this summer 's european championships .  jones is not the first coach to suggest that alli would have made a fine rugby player -- his old pe teacher at school , tim hudson , also believed that alli 's attributes meant he could have been proficient at a number of sports :  " dele was a very able sportsman . it was n't just football he was talented at . he could turn his hand to most sports .  " but most of all he was a very good winger in rugby union . he was very quick and nimble , which made him able to dance past defenders very quickly .  " dele has an intelligent brain and field , he was able to go for that straight away . "