Counting down to the Count
http://www.kilkennypeople.ie/news/what-s-on/206198/Counting-down-to-the-Count.html

counting down to the count  20 apr 2016  0  kilkenny 's watergate theatre will be the venue for the premiere of myles dungan 's new 1916 show -- the count , the countess &amp; the tommy .  the show , starring international soloists simon morgan and lisa lambe and baritone , brendan macquaile , centres on the life and music of the celebrated irish tenor count john mccormack , and features some of the best-known songs of a hundred years ago .  may 5 is the date set for the first-ever performance of the show , which goes on to tour dublin , roscommon , cavan , leitrim and beyond . the show is a centrepiece of broadcaster myles dungan 's paths to freedom roadshow project , a unique package of lectures , presentations and shows remembering the rising , one hundred years on .  the count , the countess &amp; the tommy is hosted by kilkenny co council , as part of an extensive programme of events to commemorate easter 1916 . the show , written specially for the 1916 a blend of song and drama , featuring the music , not just of mccormack , but also lena ford and ivor novello .  stanley kirkby and george m. cohan . produced by pegasus consulting , the promoters behind the great war roadshow and the fighting irish , the watergate performance will feature headline acts  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : kilkenny people , high street , kilkennyemail : **33;64;toolong : 056 7791000  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie kilkenny people provides news , events and sport features from the kilkenny area . for the best up to date information relating to kilkenny and the surrounding areas visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @