Montana woman killed baby girl and hid her body in a bin
http://www.thejournal.ie/montana-baby-2731487-Apr2016/

montana woman killed baby girl and hid her body in a bin  the woman admitted punching the baby on three occasions .  a woman beat a 13-month-old girl under her care to death on a rural montana indian reservation , threw the baby 's body into a bin and reported her missing before confessing to the crime a day later , a federal investigator has testified .  janelle red dog , 42 , admitted striking the baby on three occasions , but it 's uncertain if that 's what killed her , her lawyer said .  red dog got scared after kenzley olson died , so she disposed of the body in a trash container several blocks from her house in the town of poplar , attorney mary zemyan said . she later reported the girl missing .  drug epidemic  red dog appeared in tribal court yesterday on the fort peck reservation , about 20 miles from the us-canada border , and was ordered back into custody without bond , court officials said . tribal prosecutors are expected to charge her .  it was the second major event in recent weeks to rattle the sparsely populated reservation , home to the assiniboine and sioux tribes . in late february , a man allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted a four-year-old girl from a park in the reservation town of wolf point . the girl was found alive several days later .  fort peck tribal chairman floyd azure said kenzley 's death and the recent kidnapping stemmed from a rising drug epidemic that the reservation must address .  " what it 's coming down to is our society is basically allowing this to be the norm , " he said . " we are allowing this to happen by not speaking out . "  investigators have n't publicly linked either case to drugs , but azure told the associated press the use of methamphetamine was at the root of both crimes .  dumpster  bureau of indian affairs investigator ken trottier testified in tribal court that red dog confessed to punching kenzley several times on tuesday , killing her , ktmf-tv reported . she then put the girl 's dumpster , he said .  a sheriff 's department vehicle is parked outside the house where one-year-old kenzley olson was staying when she was beaten to death . source : richard peterson/ap/pa  when red dog reported kenzley missing hours later , authorities issued an alert that said the girl was kidnapped , possibly by a man and woman from north dakota . the pair turned out to not be involved , and the alert was cancelled after red dog reportedly confessed and drew a map to kenzley 's body .  prosecutors filed an affidavit outlining the allegations thursday , but the chief judge overseeing the case has not released it .  zemyan said kenzley had been under red dog 's care since the girl 's mother dropped her off about two weeks ago and then failed to return . many details on the events leading up to kenzley 's death remain uncertain , she said .  " the only clear facts are that the baby was found in the dumpster , and janelle told them where to find her , and that janelle at some point to murder , " zemyan said .  azure said kenzley 's mother was in jail when her daughter was killed . that was confirmed by the tribal jail , although the charges against her were not available .  attempts by the associated press to reach the mother and other members of the girl 's family were unsuccessful . funeral services are scheduled for tomorrow .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.