Gaoth Dobhair set the pace in All County League Div 1
http://www.donegaldemocrat.ie/news/sport/206428/Gaoth-Dobhair-set-the-pace-in.html

gaoth dobhair set the pace in all county league div 1  another busy programme of fixtures this weekend  gaoth dobhair are the early pace-setters in the allsportstore.com division one of the donegal all county football league after four rounds of games .  they are followed closely by kilcar and st eunan 's who are level on points , and one ahead of naomh conaill , who have a game less played .  of the top four , kilcar who are managed by martin mchugh this season , are the only team to lose a game . .  even at this early stage it is difficult to look past the leading four for the league title . last year 's champions st michael 's lost their opening game , but have won their last two and received a big boost with the return to action last weekend of colm mcfadden .  however , the word around the bridge is that the championship is the main focus this season .  the other big story so far is the form of glenswilly who gaoth dobhair will expect to bag two more points this weekend when they host great rivals , dungloe , in magheragallon .  time was this fixture took on a life of its own and it was easier to pick the six numbers in the lotto than choose the winner of a gaoth dobhair , dungloe game .  but with county seniors neil and eamon mcgee , odhran macniallais , ciaran gillespie and michael carroll in their line-up , gaoth dobhair simply have too much power for an injury-struck dungloe .  without noel mcbride , cory gallagher , both injured and martin redmond currently soccer tied with home farm , dungloe are going to have to play out of their skins to take anything from this tie .  st eunan 's are showing good early season form under new manager david mcginley and with rory kavanagh , looking lean and fit and with veteran john haran playing as well as ever they should have a little too much power and pace for st michael 's , especially on the wide open spaces of o'donnell park .  naomh intermediate champions , realt na mara , bundoran expect to be back to full strength after fielding a shadow team last weekend against st michael 's .  if there is to be a surprise result this weekend , realt na mara might just pull it off , but leo mcloone , dermot ' brick ' molloy and anthony thompson should power naomh conaill to victory .  former playing mates martin mchugh and seamus gallagher go head to head for the first time when kilcar host ardara , in towney , with mchugh expected to be holding the bragging rights at the final whistle .  termon host glenswilly , in what promises to be tasty encounter at the burn road . termon have one win from their three outings . they also ran gaoth dobhair to a point at the burn road and with this kind of form they should have the edge against glenswilly , who are still chasing their first points after four defeats . the outcome may very well hinge on the availability of michael murphy and neil gallagher .  other divisions  in division , and cloughaneely should have the measure on home soil of four masters , milford , st nauls , naomh columba , and cloughaneely respectively .  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie donegal democrat provides news , events and sport features from the donegal area . for the best up to date information relating to donegal and the surrounding areas visit us at donegal democrat regularly or bookmark this page .