Ireland's Euro 2016 group opponents Sweden have named their ...
http://www.the42.ie/sweden-euro-2016-squad-2765063-May2016/

zlatan ibrahimovic captains sweden but they could be without albin ekdal following an end-of-season celebration mishap .  albin ekdal has been included in sweden 's 23-man squad for euro 2016 , despite the injured midfielder being a serious doubt for the tournament .  the hamburg player suffered a deep cut to his back when falling onto a table while celebrating his club retaining their bundesliga status at the weekend and it remains to be seen if he will recover in time to feature in france next month .  zlatan ibrahimovic will captain a swedish party that includes ifk norrkoping forward emir kujovic , last year 's top scorer in the allsvenskan .  coach erik hamren has also selected six members of the side that won the euro u21 championship last year .  " i think we have a good mix , with a world-class player taking a big responsibility for the team , as zlatan is doing , but also the team taking a big responsibility for zlatan , " hamren said .  sweden -- who were drawn in group e slovenia and wales before travelling to france .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal content of external websites.