Melview NS win at Green School Awards
http://www.longfordleader.ie/news/home/208234/Melview-NS-win-at-Green-School.html

melview ns win at green school awards  ' be water smart ' poster competition  a senior infants pupil from melview ns was one of the major winners at the recent irish water green schools ' water schools of the year ' awards in dublin on friday , may 6 .  rachel walsh , the daughter of alistair and jennifer , took top prize in the eastern midlands region in the green ? schools irish water poster competition in the junior primary school category .  this year 's poster competition theme was ' be water smart ' and the awards recognise the dedication and innovation shown by schools that have been working on the water theme and are receiving the green flag award for water this year .  rachel received an ipad as well as a framed copy of her drawing , while nineteen of her school mates also had their work highly commended .  paying tribute to teacher audrey hunt for her hard work with the green schools committee , as well as to environmental awareness officer gary brady who continues melview ns mary o'boyle said the school was delighted with its performance in the competition .  " we have two green flags and we 're working on our third , for water , " she smiled .  " we have a green schools committee which is very active , there 's great work being done .  " we 're good at conserving energy and green schools does really work in how it draws attention to conservation . "  adding that pupils from all class groups were eager to help out in their bid for more green flags , ms o'boyle said ; " they 're very enthusiastic ! "  if you wish , you can contact us using any of the methods below : longford leader , leader house , dunblin road , co longfordemail : **33;243;toolong : 043 3345241  this website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman go to www.pressombudsman.ie or **27;278;toolong leader provides news , events and sport features from the longford area . for the best up to date information relating to longford and the surrounding areas visit us at longford leader regularly or bookmark this page .