Billy Lawless named as first ever emigrant senator by Irish leader
http://www.irishcentral.com/news/politics/Billy-Lawless-named-as-first-ever-emigrant-senator-by-Irish-leader.html

Billy Lawless named as first ever emigrant senator by Irish leader  Billy Lawless , the Galway-born restaurateur now based in Chicago , has been named by Irish leader Enda Kenny as one of his nominations to the Irish senate , the upper house of the Irish legislature roughly equivalent to the British House of Lords .  It is the first time an emigrant senator has been named . Lawless , a member of Fine Gael , who ran for the party and canvassed for them in the recent election was made a Freeman of Galway last year for his efforts to help Irish immigrants become legal in America .  President Obama was introduced by Lawless at an immigration rally in Chicago in 2014 . In his remarks Lawless stated how he and his wife and four kids moved to Chicago 18 years ago . " We really wanted to see if we could succeed in the United States and live the American Dream , " he told the audience of 18,000 people .  So delighted to see VotingRights.ie cofounder Billy Lawless appointed to !  Lawless has been a stalwart worker on behalf of the city of Galway and on behalf of Irish immigrants , and the Irish in the United States over a number years . A prominent business figure in Galway 's sister city of Chicago it is his work as an immigration advocate that has brought him to attention in political and media circles in Chicago and in Washington DC . He is Chair of Chicago Celts for Immigration Reform and is also a board member and co-founder of the Illinois Business Immigration Coalition and fights tirelessly for immigration reform .  He has been Co-Chair of the Chicago Galway Sister Cities Committee for a number of years and has supported and facilitated a number of projects including the Grainne Sculpture in Chicago donated to the City of Chicago by the City of Galway a number of years ago and recently oversaw the reciprocal gifting of the Umbrellas for Peace sculpture in the grounds of City Hall  Billy Lawless is a native of Rahoon , Galway where his family were involved in dairy farming , supplying milk to households in to nominate 11 people to the senate a mixture of party members and outstanding individuals . Among those named is Joan Freeman , head of Pieta House which counsels suicidal youths and adults .  IRL : Great decision to nominate Billy Lawless to Seanad . Hugely influential player in immigration reform in Chicago across all communities