Get your strands beach ready!
http://www.southernstar.ie/life/roundup/articles/2016/06/06/4120979-get-your-strands-beach-ready/

Get your strands beach ready !  Monday , 6th June , 2016 5:00pm  I could be wrong , but it seems to me that as a rule ladies tend to take care of their appearance a lot more at this time of year . Just as the sunshine throws light on dust and dirt in our houses , it highlights all of the areas on our bodies that remained hidden for the duration of winter .  So from pedicures to waxing and tanning , every inch of us is prepped and preened to perfection as we dare to bare in the sun -- and our hair is far from exempt !  Those pesky greys that show up no matter how regular your hair appointments are , seem to become particularly visible during the summer months . Never fear though . I 've just learned about a new product that makes covering up rogue silver strands a lot easier .  Surya Brasil Henna Cream works with colour-treated or highlighted hair and is available in 15 sleek , fashionable and on-trend colours . While hair , Surya Brasil 's Henna Creams in fact offers a safe , natural alternative to getting the hair you love ; a tempting promise in a world where more and more people are developing a sensitivity to PPD -- a lethal chemical used in 99 percent of hair dyes .  According to renowned hairdresser Bill Galligan , ' A lot of people 's thinking around henna is stuck in a 70s stereotype -- that it 's fiddly to use , it takes forever , it can only dye hair various shades of orange . But Surya Brasil have reinvented henna with their Henna Cream range , bringing it bang up to date for a fresh , modern look . There 's none of the hassle associated with old-school henna , just sleek , ultra-fashionable hair . '  Surya Brasil Henna creams are available from selected health stores and pharmacies or online at www.yourtonic.com , priced at ? 13.80 .  As always , hair looks its best when it 's in great condition from the inside out . One product I will be trying ahead of the summer , which is a pre-shampoo treatment that works directly on the hair to nourish and scrub away impurities to create natural shine .  The process gently removes impurities to create a smooth reflective surface on dull hair and is suitable for use on dry , damaged hair . To use , gently apply to damp hair in small sections in a stroking manner from root to tip and rinse well . The Sugar Shine Polishing Hair Scrub is priced at ? 18.84 .  Cookies on Southern Star website  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website . We also use cookies to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you . If you continue without changing your settings , we 'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the Southern Star website . However , if you would like to , you can change your cookie settings at any time by amending your browser settings .  How does Southern Star use cookies ?  Cookies enable us to identify your device , or you when strictly necessary to enable you to move around the site or to provide certain basic features . We use cookies to enhance the functionality of the website by storing your preferences , for example . We also use cookies to help us to improve the performance of our website to provide you with a better user experience . We don ? t sell the information collected by cookies , nor do we disclose the information to third parties , except where required by law ( for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies ) .