Paul Pogba Opens Up On His Manchester United Exit
http://www.punditarena.com/football/english-football/manchester-united/sokeefe/paul-pogba-opens-time-manchester-united/

Paul Pogba Opens Up On His Manchester United Exit  Sir Alex Ferguson will not have many regrets in his career , but allowing Paul Pogba to leave Manchester United so easily will surely be one of them .  The French midfielder was criminally underused during his time at Old Trafford , with Ferguson preferring the likes of Tom Cleverley and even right back Rafael da Silva as central midfield backup .  Pogba grew tired of a lack of opportunities at the club ( a fact he has never been shy in discussing ) , so he departed for Juventus where he became one of the biggest stars in the game .  Speaking to ESPN recently , Pogba revealed that Ferguson had wanted to keep him at the club , and while the France international respected him as a person and coach , he had made up his mind to depart :  " Ferguson 's a coach I respect a lot . But he 's a human . I 'm someone who says what he thinks .  " Ferguson came to my . He wanted to keep me , but I 'd made my decision to leave . "  Pogba 's latest insight into his Manchester United departure comes after the player 's mother revealed on Tuesday that Ferguson had made her son cry .  Speaking to French news agency AFP , Yeo Moriba stated that Ferguson arrived at their house in an effort to persuade him to sign a Manchester United contract , but after discussing it as a family , turned him down :  " I said : ' What ? Ferguson coming to my house ! He came alone ' ,  " We had got together with his brothers and we decided : he wo n't re-sign .  " Ferguson punished him , he did n't play him , Paul was alone . He even cried in Ferguson 's office over the way he was treated . "  In the ESPN interview , Pogba also paid tribute to legendary midfielder Scholes . whom he played alongside in the early stages of his career . Scholes ' own career was winding down at that point -- but the young superstar still felt he learned a lot from watching him train :  " With them Scholes and Ryan Giggs you train to the end , up to perfection , because Paul Scholes -- despite his age -- was still there at the end of practice , hitting long passes , shots . He did n't miss one . When you 're there , you have to adapt fast . I like that -- always challenges . "  Since moving to Juventus in 2012 , Pogba has won four Serie A titles , two Coppa Italias. and was in the starting lineup as the Bianconeri lost the 2015 Champions League final .  His future has been the subject of much speculation already this summer , with Manchester City , Real Madrid and former club Manchester United all being linked with a move . Reports even suggest that Pogba could move for as much as ? 100m.