Belfast priest to 'redouble' peace efforts after threats
http://www.irishcatholic.ie/article/belfast-priest-%E2%80%98redouble%E2%80%99-peace-efforts-after-threats

advertisement front header  irish news  fr gary donegan undeterred in community work by threats from dissident republicans  fr gary donegan .  a prominent belfast priest working at the heart of peacekeeping in the north said he will not be cowered by threats from dissident republicans , but will " redouble my efforts " .  fr gary donegan , rector of holy cross church in ardoyne , told the irish catholic that he was undeterred in his community work after the psni had informed him of threats against him and 12 community workers . " i have lived under threats for years and the only difference is where it is coming from this time , " he said . " it 's criminal gangs that morph under the term dissident republicans . it 's no different to what happens in limerick and dublin except they throw the mantle of republicanism over it , but people see through that easily . "  fr donegan said he has been accused of " collaborating with the state " but the reality is that " you you are not in discussion with them " .  concern  when asked if the threats will affect his work he said , " i will redouble my efforts , if that is possible " . " i am more concerned for the community workers who are trying to further society , especially with young people . i have never cowered from anything in my life . they are picking on the wrong guy . "  bishop noel treanor of down and connor described the threats as " intolerable " with " no place in a civilised society " . " to intimidate clergy , social and community workers and all those who are working tirelessly and peacefully in the service of their local community , especially those addressing pastoral and social concerns , is a weak and cowardly act on the part of those who themselves are threatened by the prospect and reality of peace , reconciliation and the rule of law , " he said .  " the sign of true leadership is to be found in resolving conflict , not in issuing threats . "