'Empty headed' Donald Trump good for politics, says Bryan Cranston
http://www.irishexaminer.com/examviral/celeb-life/empty-headed-donald-trump-good-for-politics-says-bryan-cranston-406091.html

' Empty headed ' Donald Trump good for politics , says Bryan Cranston  Tuesday , June 21 , 2016  Donald Trump is " empty headed " but his bid to become the next US president has been good for politics , actor Bryan Cranston has said .  The Breaking Bad star branded Mr Trump a " supreme narcissist " and an " emperor without any clothes " following his controversial campaign to secure the Republican Party 's nomination in the presidential election .  Bryan said he believed the billionaire tycoon 's rise in politics had " slapped " Americans in the face and he would eventually be " swept to the side " .  " He is a supreme narcissist . I do n't think that 's up for any dispute . Even people who like him say he really loves himself .  " I think his presence is good for our political system . What it has done to people like me , who are just astonished at this man , it 's slapped us in the face . It happening . '  Donald Trump ( Ross D. Franklin/AP )  " I believe that smart people will prevail and common sense will rule and he will soon be swept to the side . That 's my hope because he is a truly a man who is the emperor without any clothes . He has no ideas . He floats with the wind . "  Bryan , who plays former US president Lyndon B Johnson in the new television film All The Way , said he believed Mr Johnson would be " shocked " at the state of modern politics .  " He would be look at Donald Trump now and think ' Oh my god , what the hell has happened since I 've been gone ? ' " Bryan said .  Bryan Cranston ( Andrew Harnik/AP )  " If it were n't serious , it would be laughable . Here we have a reality show , game show guy who 's now at the top of one of the two parties .  " It 's a remarkable creation that has happened here . they gone mad ? ' But so are we . We 're going ' Oh my god , what has happened ? '  " That there are millions of people who are going to vote for him says something about , perhaps , disenfranchisement . People who are left out . People who do n't feel they are being listened to .  " I give him the benefit of the doubt that he loves this country . I believe he believes he loves this country . And I believe he does . It 's just I completely disagree with how he wants to improve this country . "  Mr Trump is the Republican Party 's presumptive nominee for the US presidential election , but has caused controversy with some of his proposed policies , including building a wall on the country 's border with Mexico and temporarily banning Muslims from entering America .