Taking the Homer Simpson approach to bin collection
http://www.businesspost.ie/taking-the-homer-simpson-approach-to-bin-collection/

That was the catchcry of Homer Simpson , who promised a simple solution to Springfield 's waste crisis .  In one of the most famous episodes of the Simpsons , Homer promised to deliver an all-singing , all-dancing bin collection service and was quickly elected as the town 's sanitation commissioner . But it all went horribly wrong . He cut corners by stuffing the waste into disused mines under Springfield -- eventually causing an explosion of trash which destroyed the town .  It is a clear attempt to push back the problem -- but this minority-government does n't exactly have a strong hand . But so far it is still at least trying preserve the principle of pay-by-weight bin charges .  In contrast , some of the opposition parties seem to be adapting Homer 's slogan of " Ca n't somebody else do it ? " into " Ca n't somebody else pay for it ? " . And the results could be just as damaging in the long term .  Sinn F ? in have signalled their opposition to the concept leader Mary Lou McDonald saying it could be funded instead through general taxation .  The Anti-Austerity Alliance and People before Profit Alliance , who are bringing forward a D ? il motion today on bin charges , want bin collection services to be run again by councils rather than private firms . But many of their members were to the forefront of the campaign in the late 1990s to refuse to pay bin charges to councils . The councils were starved of income and pulled out , leaving the market to the private waste collectors . Of course , the argument here is that councils should have got more funding from government to provide the service . So it is back to the " general taxation " argument here too . As Social Protection MInister Leo Varadkar has pointed out , that is a code for saying the middle class should pay for everything and that others should pay nothing .  So far Fianna F ? il have supported the introduction of pay-by-weight charging , through its environment spokesman Barry Cowen . But it will be interesting to see ? in and the AAA-PBP .  The bin charges controversy is another sign of course that the government appears to have learnt very little from the water charges debacle .  Just like with water charges , there appears to have been a deliberate attempt to introduce them with minimal publicity . There was a publicity campaign launched last month at council level , but it is fair to say that most people would have never heard about it .  Just like water charges , there has been no clarity provided on the actual cost . Bin companies have sent out letters with their new prices per kilo , and their increased standing charges . But it is far from clear to many households what their final annual bill will be .  And just like water charges , there has also been a failure to provide the clear environmental justification for the charge . The need to upgrade the country 's creaking water infrastructure was only really demonstrated after there were huge anti-water charge protests .  Similarly , there have already been outraged callers to RTE 's to explain the reasons for the pay-by-weight system .  There is clear evidence that pay-by-weight is the best way of keeping as much waste as possible out of black bins -- which usually ends up in dumps . One study published in 2011 said it could keep 446,000 tonnes out of dumps , which are due to be completely full within ten years anyway . That is because households have a financial incentive to put as much food waste into the brown bin and as much recyclables into the green bin .  Some are already doing this . But there are other households who do not put out their brown bin at all . And in other parts of the country , waste collectors are still not offering a brown bin collection service despite much pressure to do so from the Department of the Environment . Pay-by-weight is an attempt to put in a national system to improve the country 's very patchy waste collection system .  But just like water charges , a botched roll out has put the entire project under threat . As Homer would political editor with the Sunday Business Post . A native of Milltown , Co Galway , he attended St Jarlath 's College in Tuam and has a degree in journalism from DCU . After working with Mid West Radio and the Irish Emigrant newspaper in Boston , he joined the Examiner in Cork , where he won the Young Journalist of the Year award in 2004 . He later spent two years as a reporter with the Press Association in Dublin , and worked for the Irish Independent for seven years as political correspondent and then deputy political editor .