Brock Lesnar dedicates UFC 200 comeback victory to Dallas police ...
http://www.independent.ie/sport/mma/brock-lesnar-dedicates-ufc-200-comeback-victory-to-dallas-police-shooting-victims-34870955.html

jack de menezes  brock lesnar made a triumphant return to the ultimate fighting championship in the early hours of sunday morning as he defeated australian heavyweight mark hunt by unanimous decision , but it proved to be a different lesnar to the one who dominated mma during his title reign .  brock lesnar before his fight against mark hunt during the ufc 200 event at t-mobile arena in las vegas , nevada . ( photo by rey del rio/getty images )  brock lesnar made a triumphant return to the ultimate fighting championship in the early hours of sunday morning as he defeated australian heavyweight mark hunt by unanimous decision , but it proved to be a different lesnar to the one who dominated mma during his title reign .  brock lesnar made a triumphant return to the ultimate fighting championship in the early hours of sunday morning as he defeated australian heavyweight mark hunt by unanimous decision , but it proved to be a different lesnar to the one who dominated mma during his title reign .  lesnar looked tentative on his by serious health issues when he was diagnosed with the intestinal condition diverticulitis , resulting in 12 inches of his colon being removed .  having been a keen trash talker and one to speak his mind during his first stint in the ufc , lesnar cut a much calmer figure , displayed by his respect for hunt in touching gloves at the start of each round and embracing him despite doing his best to split his head wide open with a barrage of thudding right hands late in the third round .  yet it was his comments after the fight that proved to be the biggest sign of his change in attitude , as he took the opportunity of his in-ring interview with the ufc 's joe rogan to pay tribute to the five policeman shot in dallas earlier in the week .  " it took me a little while to get out here , " lesnar said after the victory . " words ca n't describe this , thank you everybody , so much .  " i 'm taking it one day at a time . do want to do , america , a shout out for all the men that protect the country , from sea to sea , from one white boy to all nationalities , we 've got to stick together . "  the harrowing scenes in dallas on thursday night saw four gunmen armed with sniper rifles and other firearms kill 11 police officers and injure six more in a choreographed attack during a black lives matter " parade . the ufc held a moment 's silence before the start of ufc 200 in memory of those who died in the attack .  related content  your comments  comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . comments must be concise and to the point . the moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . the comment facility is removed after 48 hours .