Is Joe Sheridan Part Of The Solution For Meath?
http://www.punditarena.com/gaa/dculhane/joe-sheridan-part-solution-meath/

is joe sheridan part of the solution for meath ?  meath crashed out of the all-ireland football championship in the second round of the qualifiers after derry came from seven points down to send the royal county packing .  after the match manager mick o'dowd resigned after three years in the job . he spoke of how proud he was to lead meath through a transition phase , but in reality this stage has only just begun .  for the past two years under o'dowd , meath have lacked some serious leadership on the pitch . with the exception of mickey burke and donncha tobin they have lacked any real vocal presence on the pitch . it was seen on saturday and the same could be said of the last two years , with the team regularly underperforming and collapsing in the second half of games .  our writer feels mick o'dowd was wrong to axe joe sheridan from the royal squad .  meath still have a couple of players to return to the fold that could add a bit of stability middle of the park , but there has never been a truly great leader of the county under o'dowd after joe sheridan was axed from the squad in 2013 .  sheridan may be past his glory days by a long stretch but that is not to say that he should n't have a role in the squad . the seneschalstown man , along with stephen bray , led the meath team in the past . with the pair in the side the royals never knew when they were beaten .  meath never suffered from second half capitulations when they were on the field and although bray was part of the xv that saw westmeath make headlines against them , there was redemption on his part against tyrone a couple of weeks later , as he helped the team regroup , which led to meath putting in a valiant performance away to the eventual semi-finalists .  but , bray 's return is unlikely . having young children and a full-time job with long hours were the primary reasons that the corner forward retired from county football last year . 2017 ?  as mentioned , the panel is lacking serious leadership . the squad will also be subjected to a new coaching staff come the end of the year . they need an injection of experience ; someone who has been there through thick and thin for the county and has been accustomed to managerial change , with sheridan definitely fitting the mould .  but that is not all that sheridan can bring to the meath set-up . the last two campaigns have proven that since o'dowd stopped selecting the controversial figure the squad have struggled in full forward .  andrew tormey was given the task this year but did n't quite fit the bill with his talents better used further out the field and the constant belief that o'dowd had continued to place in dalton mcdonagh has left supporters in bemusement , with the player not scoring in his three championship appearances this year and offering very little attacking threat .  andrew tormey has not been an adequate replacement for sheridan at full-forward .  sheridan may not be the high calibre full-forward that he was still win pivotal ball for the royals in front of goal . he may not have the injection of pace that is needed in county level but still possesses the physical presence that meath have lacked since his departure .  there is little harm in bringing in the seneschalstown man into panel for the league come february . the county is in dire need of a figure that can positively influence the dressing room during their prolonged transition and in the worst case scenario can be cut leading up to championship .  about darragh culhane  darragh is a 19-year-old journalism student who has an avid interest in soccer , gaa and golf . he also is a part of sports podcast called action replay-extra time alongside fellow pundit arena writers jack o'toole , brein mcginn and enda coll . follow darragh on twitter @darraghculhane.