Foreign ministers harden stance as concern grows over arrests in ...
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/world/europe/foreign-ministers-harden-stance-as-concern-grows-over-arrests-in-turkey-1.2726466

us secretary of state john kerry says erdogan must provide ' evidence , not allegations '  john kerry and federica mogherini ahead of a eu foreign affairs council meeting in brussels yesterday . photograph : laurent dubrule/epa  the us and the european union toughened their stance against turkey yesterday as they urged turkish president recep tayyip erdogan to " not go beyond the rule of law " as he deals with the aftermath of the failed military coup .  speaking in brussels where eu foreign ministers gathered for a scheduled meeting , us secretary of state john kerry urged the turkish government to " uphold the highest standard of respect . . . for the rule of law . we support bringing the perpetrators of the coup to justice , but we caution a reach that goes beyond that . "  amid deepening tensions between washington and ankara over the status of islamic cleric fetullah g ? len , whom mr erdogan has accused of plotting the coup , mr kerry said turkey must provide " evidence , not allegations " about mr consider his extradition .  extradite the turkish president has called for the us to extradite his former ally who is living in exile in pennsylvania . " the us has a formal process for dealing with extradition requests , " mr kerry said , noting that ankara had not yet requested the extradition .  in an indication of the diplomatic sensitivities surrounding the turkish-us relationship the us secretary of state expressed support for turkey as a fellow nato member , noting that the country is a " key partner to the eu " . " we stand squarely on the side of elected leadership , " he said .  as eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels also responded to friday 's events , minister for foreign affairs charlie flanagan warned against any moves to reintroduce the death penalty would be in breach of turkey 's eu obligations as an accession country . freedom " i along with my eu partners call upon the turkish authorities , police and security to show restraint , and to respect democracy , human rights and fundamental freedoms , including the right to obligations which preclude the application of the death penalty , " he said .  eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini said turkey 's " democratic and legitimate institutions need to be protected " . but she added : " this does not mean obviously that the rule of law and the system of checks and balances in the country does not count . on the contrary , it needs to be protected for the sake of the country itself . . . we will send a strong message on that . "  while eu and world leaders broadly backed mr erdogan 's government in the wake of the failed weekend coup , there is growing unease that a backlash from erdogan 's government could breach democratic standards , a development which would almost certainly undermine the eu 's promise of visa-free travel for turkey , a key part of the eu-turkey migration deal .  in one of the strongest interventions by a senior eu figure , eu commissioner johannes hahn , who is responsible for relations with turkey , suggested that mr erdogan had already planned a list . " it looks at least as if something has been prepared , " he said . " the lists are available , which indicates it was prepared and to be used at a certain stage . i 'm very concerned . it is exactly what we feared . "  boris johnson , who attended his first meeting of eu foreign ministers since his appointment as british foreign secretary last week , called for " restraint and moderation on all sides " .  abandoning mr johnson , whose arrival in brussels on sunday night was delayed for several hours after his plane was forced to make an emergency landing at luton airport , said britain would be in no sense leaving europe , despite last month 's decision to leave the european union . the government must " give effect to the will of the people and leave the european union , " he said . " but that in no sense means that we are leaving europe . we are not going to be in any way abandoning our leading role in european co-operation and participation of all the failed coup in turkey , saying that a military coup was not acceptable . but he added " at the same time , we have to be vigilant that the turkish authorities do not put in place a political system that could derail democracy .