Creedon's Epic East tour brings him to Meath
http://www.meathchronicle.ie/entertainment/roundup/articles/2016/07/18/4123480-creedons-epic-east-tour-brings-him-to-meath/

Creedon 's Epic East tour brings him to Meath  John Creedon 's new new four-part series , ' Creedon 's Epic East ' , in which he visits Meath , begins on Sunday 24th July on RTE1 . Following his successful trip on the Wild Atlantic Way last year , John is back on the road with his faithful VW campervan , his ' Sean Van Bhocht ' . But now , he 's heading to the other side of the country or as John himself says : " I 'm done with the West . Now I 'm going to do the rest ! " The new tourist route , Ireland 's Ancient East , takes in 17 counties and John 's route will stretch from Louth to Cork and from Cavan to Wexford.He will be travelling through thousands of years from mythical heroes to the birth of our nation and right up to the present day.The Epic East is the cradle of Ireland 's civilisation , from the Hill of Tara , to the Viking invasion right up to the Normans ' landing . wants to discover what being Irish really means . His mission sparks a voyage of self discovery . He calls in the experts to research his family tree and test his DNA and asks is there such a thing as an Irish gene ? " It 's possible to travel through 5,000 years of history in just one hour throughout the East , " explains John . " So you can find something from the fifth century and 10 minutes down the road , you could arrive at a stately home dating back to the 18th century . It 's going to be fascinating to uncover the landscape 's stories . " Counties which will feature on this RTE Cork production include Louth , Meath , Monaghan , Cavan , Longford , Westmeath , Offaly , Laois , Kildare , Wicklow , Carlow , Wexford , Kilkenny , Tipperary , Waterford and Cork.The music for this four part series has been specially commissioned and composer John Spillane has produced a unique soundtrack that complements the drama that unfolds within every story.Along the way , John travels to Oldcastle to visit a sets foot on stony grey soil in Monaghan where he meets Inniskeen man and impressionist Oliver Callan to find out what Irish poet Patrick Kavanagh was really like.He travels by chariot along an ancient trackway that was once buried beneath the bog in Longford . Westmeath man Bressie gives John a taste of what it was like to be a high king at a fire festival on the hill of Uisneach.He fires muskets on Vinegar Hill finds hidden treasure in the Dunmore caves and samples some medieval dishes in Waterford city . John learns how to ring the bells in St Canice 's Cathedral in Kilkenny and how to gold pan in a Wicklow river and goes behind the scenes of TV drama ' The Vikings ' . In Ireland 's smallest county , Louth , John joins the T ? in march where Queen Maeve and C ? chulainn and their respective armies go head to head in a fight over the Brown Bull of Cooley .  Explore Our Range Of Services  Cookies on Meath Chronicle website  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the to ensure we show you advertising that is relevant to you . If you continue without changing your settings , we 'll assume that you are happy to receive all cookies on the Meath Chronicle website . However , if you would like to , you can change your cookie settings at any time by amending your browser settings .  How does Meath Chronicle use cookies ?  Cookies enable us to identify your device , or you when you have logged in . We use cookies that are strictly necessary to enable you to move around the site or to provide certain basic features . We use cookies to enhance the functionality of the website by storing your preferences , for example . We also use cookies to help us to improve the performance of our website to provide you with a better user experience . We do n't sell the information collected by cookies , nor do we disclose the information to third parties , except where required by law ( for example to government bodies and law enforcement agencies ) .