Obama lands in Japan to begin historic Hiroshima visit
http://www.thestandard.com.hk/breaking-news.php?id=75187

free premium  obama lands in japan to begin historic hiroshima visit  email to friend  obama lands in japan to begin historic hiroshima visit  after wrapping up an historic visit to vietnam , us president barack obama arrived in japan today starting the final stop on his swing through asia . among officials greeting him at the airport late today was u.s. ambassador caroline kennedy . obama plans to meet with japanese prime minister shinzo abe before joining his counterparts for a summit of the group of seven industrialized nations opening ...  your name :  your email :  your friend 's email :  enable javascript for audio controls  type the text :  message :  after wrapping up an historic visit to vietnam , us president barack obama arrived in japan today starting the final stop on his swing through asia . among officials greeting him at the airport late today was u.s. ambassador caroline kennedy . obama plans to meet with japanese prime minister shinzo abe before joining his counterparts for a summit of the group of japanese chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga said abe would raise the recent arrest of a former u.s. marine in connection with the murder of a japanese woman on the southern island of okinawa . obama also plans an historic visit friday to hiroshima , seven decades after the u.s. ushered in the nuclear age by dropping an atomic bomb to end world war ii . obama will be the first sitting u.s. president to visit hiroshima . in vietnam , obama praised the next generation of leaders for being more conscious of the environment than previous ones and urged them to ? do something about ' ' climate change . during his final public event in ho chi minh city , obama basked in the admiration of hundreds of young leaders who participated in a town hall-style event and prefaced some of their questions to him with praise about his leadership and his ? inspiring speeches . ' ' in ho chi minh city , obama used a question about preserving a vietnamese cave from development to pivot to climate change . he said vietnam would be one of the countries seas . ? that could have a huge impact on vietnam 's ability to feed its people , on fishermen , on farmers , and it could be a really big problem if we do n't do something about it , so it 's going to be up to you to start , ' ' he said . ? one of the great things about your generation is that you are already much more conscious about the environment than my generation was or previous generations were. ? ? he had told a previous questioner that he ? fooled around a lot ' ' when he was young and was n't serious about school . ? i was more into basketball and girls . i was n't always that serious . you 're already way ahead of me . that 's good . ' ' obama also promoted a 12-nation , trans-pacific trade pact that includes vietnam but is stalled in the u.s. congress and opposed by the three leading u.s. presidential candidates . but he avoided wading too deeply into politics when asked where he sees himself in five years , obama has said on previous occasions that world leaders ask him all the time about the unpredictable election . ? sometimes , our politics does n't express all the goodness of the people , but usually , eventually , the voters make good decisions and democracy works , ' ' obama said . ? so i 'm optimistic that we 'll get through this period . ' ' as for his future , obama said he expects to stay involved with public policy issues and return to his roots as an organizer . ? i 'll be like a community organizer , except a little more famous than i used to be . ' ' obama spent three days in the capital of hanoi , in the north , and in ho chi minh city , in the south. ? ap