


We speak to Liverpool fan Sam Planche to get his views on the Reds ' tour of the US , transfers and everything else at Anfield  Get Liverpool FC news by email  Mamadou Sakho and Divock Origi of Liverpool during a training session at Melwood Training Ground on February 5 , 2016 in Liverpool , England . ( Photo by Andrew Powell/Liverpool FC via Getty Images )  The American tour ended with the defeat to Roma . What were your overall impressions of the trip Stateside for LFC this year ?  Sam Planche ( SP : ) America is an excellent venue for a pre-season tour in terms of the fan-base and the weather has been excellent to train in . The amount of fans across the globe that want to catch a glimpse of the Reds is phenomenal . The club should do everything they can to give all supporters the opportunity to see the stars they adore .  The tour also has a financial aspect so big clubs such as Liverpool tend to go far and wide at pre-season . team 's preparation for the new season . Another factor is the travelling the players have to do which can have an impact in terms of tiredness .  Overall , the level of teams Liverpool faced was of good quality as the main targets for the pre-season campaign are building fitness and testing the level you are at against quality opposition .  Read More  The biggest news this week was probably the injury to Loris Karius . How big a blow to Liverpool is it - are you a Mignolet fan ?  SP : I feel this is a massive blow to the team . Karius has been starting all pre-season games and it is early days but looked to be a real challenger to Mignolet . Karius has a confident presence and time will tell if he can step up to the mark . Unfortunately we now have to wait a little longer to find out .  I thought a new goalkeeper purchase this pre-season was crucial as I do n't think Mignolet is good enough to be Liverpool 's number one . The amount presence cost Liverpool last season and arguably during the season we almost won the league title while still conceding around 50 goals .  Read More  Alberto Moreno 's knock appears minor but what is your view on the left back situation now ?  SP : Hopefully the knock to Moreno will force Liverpool into the transfer market . This is an example of another essential piece of transfer business that I feel Klopp needed to make during this window . Moreno is rash and often loses concentration , finding himself out of position . We are short in this area and I would like to see an established full back bought with another younger up and coming player added as backup to replace Brad Smith .  The Live Event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started Please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video  We 've seen Gini Wijnaldum play his first Liverpool games , as a deeper midfielder . Where do you see him fitting in going forward ?  SP : I 'm pleased can play a number of midfield positions . I can see him playing deeper in the midfield two alongside Can or Henderson in tight games at home , for example , with four attack minded players in front of him . Possibly in tougher games against the top sides Wijnaldum may play In the hole behind the striker instead with a midfield two behind him .  This also gives us the option to change players and tactics during the game without making a substitution as I thought at times last year we could be predictable with no plan B.  Klopp has certainly targeted more goals from midfield with the signing of Mane and Wijnaldum . The crop of midfield players Liverpool had at the disposal last season were all very good players but I think rather similar with limited goal threat . This is the reason Joe Allen and Jordon Ibe may have departed .  Read More  Joel Matip has missed the last couple of games . Would you be happy with a Lovren/Klavan partnership to start the season at the Emirates ?  SP : Klavan will be rather different on the opening day of the season . The pressure and tempo will be higher and only then can we judge the centre back pairing . The limited appearances Klavan has made so far have impressed me , he looks well organised , good in the air and reads the game well but is n't a speed merchant . Lovren and Klaven look similar players and I feel will be helped with a Matip alongside them who possesses more pace .  I 'm not a Sakho fan , he is a wholehearted player who looks uneasy on the ball and is liable to make a mistake at any time . Left back and centre half are still areas we are short and if we can enter the market again these are the areas I think we need to invest in .  Read More  Origi impressed many with his performance against a weak AC Milan . What 's your pecking orders for the Reds ' strikers with Sturridge also in ' perfect shape ' ?  SP : Origi has really impressed me recently , the early stages of his Liverpool career because he looked lightweight and below par . He has proved me wrong and developed physically and mentally with his work-rate being excellent . Klopp has certainly played his part in improving Origi . He is certainly not the finished article but has the potential to be a massive star for us and save us millions in the transfer market .  The other side of the coin is Daniel Sturridge . On his day what a talent and his goal record for Liverpool is right up there with the very best . We all know about this injury record but putting that aside , if Daniel is in ' perfect shape ' and on form , there are not many better strikers around .  Daniel does not work as hard as Origi off the ball and Klopp likes his strikers to defend from the front and press the ball at all times , so this may influence his decision . Personally I would start with Sturridge with Coutinho behind and Origi and Mane out wide and two midfielders behind them .  at Wembley . Excited ?  SP : What a great fixture , Liverpool and Barcelona . What a magic player Suarez is , he never gives up , he is a warrior . I love watching him play but hate the fact he no longer wears the red of Liverpool .  This game at Wembley was sold out in minutes , Liverpool fans will be arriving from all over the world to catch this fixture . It just shows the magnet of attraction that Liverpool Football Club is . A club of this size and support should be at the very top and the passionate and charismatic figure of Klopp could take us there . Then maybe we will see the likes of Suarez in a red shirt again .  Advertising Department  Trinity Mirror Merseyside , the Echo 's parent company , is one of the North West 's largest multimedia providers reaching more than 900,000 adults every month .  The Liverpool Echo , Trinity Mirror Merseyside 's flagship brand , is the area 's best-read newspaper including national newspapers .  The Liverpool Echo reaches readership of more than 256,000* people.The Liverpool Echo website reaches 1.5 million unique users each month who look at around 8.5 million pages** .  The Editor  Alastair Machray  Alastair Machray was appointed editor of The Liverpool Echo in 2005 and is also editor-in-chief of Trinity Mirror Merseyside , Cheshire and North Wales . He is a former editor of The Daily Post ( Wales and England ) and editor-in-chief of the company 's Welsh operations . Married dad-of-two and keen golfer Alastair is one of the longest-serving newspaper editors in the country . His titles have won numerous awards and spearheaded numerous successful campaigns .