


malayalam guppy movie review &amp; rating hit or flop 1st day collection earning : - this week in malayalam cinema three movies released and they all are looking good . people have buzz for the all movie and they are coming out to watch the movie in very good numbers . guppy is malayalam drama directing by johnpaul george . tovino thomas will play the lead role in the movie along with sreenivasan . the movie will be produced under the banner of e4 entertainment .  guppy movie review &amp; rating  guppy movie review &amp; rating  the buzz is good for the movie and people are coming out to watch the movie in very good numbers . also , the best part is movie has good and attractive story plot and that can attract a lot of people towards it . music and editing is looking good in the movie and overall i can say that guppy is good child movie this week to watch .  critics are looking good for the movie because they are giving good reviews . acting and direction , i love the way makers presented the movie and that is good point . but scripting can be better because people have much big expectations from the movie . overall movie is good for the family audience .  story based on-  like i told you above that the movie is all about a boy his name is guppy . also , tovino thomas is playing the main title role . the story revolves around the life of guppy and how he deals with his own problems . the plot is not that good and that 's why i think movie going to struggle in cinemas .  children going to love this movie because of the quite good acting of tovino thomas .  negative point of the movie-  i think the scripting can be the negative point for the movie .  cinematography is average and could be better .  suspense is not that strong and aggressive for the competition .  final verdict-  well , if you are planning to watch the movie than go for it because you all going to love not that good in the movie . but overall this movie is one of the good options to watch this week .  directed by : johnpaul george  produced by : mukesh r mehta  starring : tovino thomas , sreenivasan , master chethan  release date : 5 august 2016  rating : 3/5  review overview  guppy movie review &amp; rating  summary  like i told you above that the movie is all about a boy his name is guppy . also , tovino thomas is playing the main title role . the story revolves around the life of guppy and how he deals with his own problems . the plot is not that good and that 's why i think movie going to struggle in cinemas.