


inmates will never go back in jail if they are provided with skills training while in detention and job opportunities after they have completed their sentences .  with this in mind , neophyte senator joel villanueva filed senate bill 212 known as " training inside prisons act of 2016 , " which seeks to institutionalize skills development and provide job opportunities to inmates in detention facilities .  " there is a need to strengthen the rehabilitation function of criminal justice system in the philippines . this can be done through the provision of skills development inside jails . inmates have as much right to develop their skills and the walls of prison should not deter their learning , " villanueva , former head of the technical education and skills development authority ( tesda ) , said in his explanatory note in the bill .  advertisement  he said transition services , especially technical , vocational education and training ( tvet ) , can improve the self-esteem of inmates .  " with employable skills , they can find new life when they leave detention said the senator .  " tech-voc training will bring new hope to the detainees because they know they have the skills that can be their passport to employment opportunities once they leave jail . through this , we also help solve congestion of jails and break the cycle of recidivism , " he further said .  villanueva noted that there are 70,000 inmates in 989 jails nationwide who are mostly 18-39 years old , based on the records of the bureau of jail management and penology ( bjmp ) .  through tvet , he said , these inmates could be transformed by equipping them with necessary competencies to re-enter the society .  " training inside prison will be matched with job search assistance outside of prison , " said the senator .  under the bill , a skills development training program will be established for inmates in the philippines by tesda , department of education and the department of justice .  the funds needed to carry out the measure would be charged against the 2016 annual appropriations of tesda , and thereafter , should be said those who could avail of the program are inmates who have served their sentences and are keen on acquiring new work skills , and those considered for minimum security , whose maximum sentences are not longer than six years . idl/rga