


corbyn : no mp would leave labour ' family '  jeremy corbyn said no labour mp would dream of leaving the " family " that put them in parliament , in an attack on rebels .  dismissing the idea of a party split in a scathing response after setting out his 10-policy leadership vision , mr corbyn suggested labour mps who quit would be betraying the people who voted for them .  when questioned after a speech in dagenham about the suggestions labour rebels could quit and form a new party if he was re-elected as leader , mr corbyn said : " i 'm sure no labour mp would even dream of walking away from the family of the labour party .  " the family of the labour party that helped to put them into parliament in order to represent labour views and labour values . "  video : mcdonnell : owen 's a great guy but ...  it came after mr corbyn 's leadership rival owen smith warned the labour party could " bust apart and disappear " . key element of his campaign for the top job .  mr corbyn 's close ally , the shadow chancellor john mcdonnell , said mr smith must stop " blackmailing " party members with the threat of a split .  mr mcdonnell told sky news it was " not right " for labour members voting in the contest to be given an ultimatum and called for a return to an " amicable " and " comradely " contest -- before branding mr smith the " disunity candidate " .  he told sky news : " we should n't be going into a leadership election saying : ' vote for me or some of my supporters will split the party . ' people do n't want to be blackmailed in that way . that 's not right .  video : ' very real danger ' of labour split  " what owen smith needs to do is call this off all together by saying : look , whatever the result of the election , if jeremy corbyn does get reselected he will serve under jeremy corbyn -- and to split , just stop it immediately and let 's work together . "  damning mr smith with faint praise he added : " owen 's a great guy . i like him a lot . he is one of the most ambitious career politicians i 've met . i think we 've moved on from that style of politics . "  on wednesday , mr smith set out his vision for the leadership , unveiling a " triple lock " of pensions overhaul , benefit changes and a higher minimum wage . last week he made 25 policy pledges .  mr mcdonnell accused mr smith of " advocating the policies that jeremy corbyn was elected on " and there is overlap with the infrastructure fund , a ban on zero hours contracts and benefit changes .  mr smith has acknowledged the similarities but says mr corbyn has failed to sell them to the public effectively enough to win an election , something he claims he could do .  as mr corbyn and mr smith prepared to go head-to-head in a debate in cardiff , the latest be heard later at the high court .  a crowd-funded group of party members are challenging the decision of labour 's ruling national executive committee to ban ? 3 supporters from voting if they did not join by 12 january unless they pay a further ? 25 .  meanwhile , a yougov poll shows the conservatives enjoying their biggest lead over labour since november 2009 .  about the author  cookies  this author has not added a biography . meanwhile cookies has contributed 382 posts . click here to view them .