


terror threat suspect killed in police operation in canada  the man , identified as aaron driver , was killed when the rcmp raided a home in ontario .  police raid a home after they received ' credible information of a potential terrorist threat ' at a small community some 225 km ( 140 miles ) southwest of toronto in strathroy , ontariostringer/reuters  a man suspected of plotting a terror attack has been killed in canada in a joint operation carried out by the royal canadian mounted police ( rcmp ) , the canadian security intelligence service and other police and security agencies . the action was taken on wednesday night ( 10 august ) following " credible information " of a potential terrorist attack in canada .  the suspect was identified as aaron driver and he is believed to have been planning to conduct a suicide bombing mission in a public area on wednesday . earlier this year , driver -- who was in his mid-20s -- had been ordered by a court not to associate with any terror groups , including the was identified and the proper course of action has been taken to ensure that there is no danger to the public 's safety . the safety and securityof canadians is of the utmost importance to the rcmp and we take all such threats seriously , " the rcmp said .  it was also reported that public safety minister ralph goodale has talked to prime minister justin trudeau about the incident " to confirm that public safety has been and continues to be properly protected . "  " there is no greater responsibility of the government than to keep its citizens safe . the government of canada monitors all potential threats and has robust measures in place to address them . any comments on operational details will be made at the appropriate time by the rcmp .  " canadians can be confident that whenever credible information is obtained about a potential terrorist threat , the rcmp , csis and other police and security agencies take the appropriate steps to ensure the safety of this country and its citizens . these agencies conducted themselves effectively in the circumstances that developed canadians to stay vigilant and inform the national security tip line ( 1-800-420-5805 ) or local police if they find any suspicious activity near them .