


The system recently installed at the Sunrise Eggs production unit in Seagrave Road , Sileby is capable of moving 70,000 eggs an hour onto pallets .  It features a robot head capable of picking up 720 eggs at a time .  Sunrise Eggs are laid at farms in Leicestershire , Shropshire and Norfolk and the business packs around four million -- up from 2.25 million a few years ago -- each week for big supermarket chains , local shops and foodservice companies .  Sunrise Eggs commercial manager Chris Stocks said : " The sorting and palletising of the eggs is now completed 45 per cent faster than previously . " Removing the need for hand palletising from our daily schedule has allowed our staff more husbandry time for the birds . "  He said the ABB IRB 6400 Robot -- installed by Wales-based RM Group -- uses precision programming to pick up trays of eggs with great accuracy .  The bespoke robot heads are designed to fit the egg trays contours and the eggs are gently moved from accumulator to pallet . any risk of distortion that occurs to the tray when palletised by hand -- which could lead to breakages .  " Strategically placed sensors ensure the tray is clear of the forks before the robot fully retracts , eliminating the possibility of damage .  " This new machine is at the end of three laying houses in a collection area . Eggs are conveyed loose from the hens over the Moba Farmpacker we installed last year .  " The Moba Farmpacker turns them all the correct way -- points down -- and staff are able to remove ' seconds ' manually at this stage .  " They are then automatically packed onto plastic trays of 30 eggs each and automatically stacked .  " The new robot lifts four stacks of six trays at a time -- that 's 720 eggs per lift -- and turns and stacks them onto specially made plastic pallets .  " Every 12 stacks -- that 's four lifts -- it makes a layer and a plastic divider is placed on top by the robot .  " This leaves only .  " After four layers made up of 8,640 eggs , the pallet is full and the process starts again . And all the eggs are presented straight every time . "  He said the equipment had not resulted in job losses . The company employs around 80 people and has added jobs .  He said : " Automating repetitive processes and making production more time and energy efficient means we continuously improve our processes .  " But care of our flocks , the maintenance of quality standards and dealing with customers and suppliers , are all jobs that only great staff can do -- no matter how gentle and efficient the robot might be .  " And robots need to be very carefully maintained , which also requires more specially trained staff . "  2 comments  But you 're no better than a trot if you just point out the obvious problems with a system without providing any solutions or improvements . If you do n't have a decent minimum wage , then even people in full-time work have to claim benefits , is coming to a lot of jobs , and as long as we cling on to the notion that everyone needs to work full time to make money , unemployment is only going to keep rising .  And all the lefty morons who think they can force through unrealistic minimum wage rules take a look at your future . Just as the lemmings in the US are now finding out . They thought they were in line for 15 dollars an hour . What they are actually getting is layoff notices . Just as I predicted to the TUSC muppets on here a year or two ago when they were all over this site demanding massive hikes in minimum wages .