


Olympic Sailing : Giles Scott in command of Finn class after second day of competition  GILES Scott threw down the gauntlet to his Finn rivals as a dominant day two display propelled him to the top of the leaderboard in Rio yesterday .  Four-time World Champion Scott , based on Portland , took advantage of almost Britain-esque conditions of 20-plus knots and grey skies to take second place in the day 's opening race -- race three of their event overall -- before leading from start to finish in their second race to claim pole position at the top of the Finn class rankings .  The 29-year-old Olympic debutant was left ruing a poor opening race to his regatta on Wednesday , finishing 17th after getting caught on the wrong side of a wind shift on the notoriously shifty Sugarloaf course .  But with the Finns racing outside of Guanabara Bay on the ocean today , it was conditions Scott revels in and he was not about to waste the chance to begin his regatta in earnest .  He said : " I was really pleased to come away with a first and a second , especially after a frustrating start .  " In the first race I actually went to the wrong windward mark , because we were quite close to the leeward end of the Laser fleet , so that was a bit of an error but I managed to pull back through to second .  " It was quite nice to get some windy conditions just to dig your heels in and grunt up .  " Rio was quite kind to us on the outside courses .  " When we were towed in past the races on the inside bay it looked like a different world , it was quite surreal . "  With three races now completed the sailors can discard their worst score from their series , meaning Scott 's 17th is now currently discounted .  Slovenia 's Vasilij Zbogar , a two-time Olympic medallist in the Laser , led overnight but scores of seven and 10 today saw him leapfrogged by the Brit , while Alican Kaynar ( TUR ) sits currently occupying a top 10 position is already discarding a score of 10th or higher with six races still to go , meaning there is virtually no margin for error for the remainder of the regatta for any sailor .  The Finns are set to resume racing back inside the bay on the Escola Naval course from 5pm BST tomorrow before a rest day on Friday , and Scott will be keen to make sure he goes into the lay day on a high .  He added : " There is still an awfully long way to go and the racing in Rio is particularly tough , it is going to throw all sorts at us so we really just have to be mindful of that and prepare as much as possible .  " The Finns are a very technical class it 's very tactical and also very physical so I think if you get races that hit all those areas it 's only good for the sailors . "  The Finn class is scheduled to contest an 11 race series , with the one off medal This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here