


services  ? 1.6m glen project boost for dunfermline  pittencrieff park 's four-year , ? 1.6million transformation has brought a wealth of benefits to dunfermline , councillors have been told .  a total of 29 improvements were carried out between 2012 and 2016 as part of the restoration of the 76-acre park , which was funded by the heritage lottery fund with matching support from the carnegie dunfermline trust and fife council .  works included new features such as a kitchen garden , refurbishment of the famous glasshouses and well-loved locomotive , repairing the andrew carnegie statue , a new home for the park 's resident peacocks , upgrading entrance gates and seats , new lighting , improved steps and signage , as well as replanting schemes and improved drainage .  in total , three buildings and 15 historical features were restored ; two buildings were brought back into use ; four lost features were reconstructed ; and more than three percent of the path network was improved .  and not only did the project come in slightly under budget , the a green flag for the first time , which was subsequently awarded to pittencrieff park in 2015 .  in a report to the city of dunfermline area committee , head of area services grant ward said : " the project has brought the features and landscape of the park back to a high-quality standard . future management and maintenance of the park will be vital in continuing this legacy .  " an updated management and maintenance plan has been produced which must be acted upon and renewed as necessary in the coming years . "  a summary accompanying the review said the project had seen an increase in visitor numbers -- a record 780,169 visited in 2013/14 -- and listed the benefits of the project to the town , community , pittencrieff primary and council .  it stated : " for local people it has increased visitor numbers ; improved satisfaction with the park ; offered more events and a wider range of events ; provided opportunities to volunteer ; and increased understanding and enjoyment of the park .  " for the local school it has to learning outcomes over the curriculum ; helped achieve john muir and natural connections awards ; helped physical development which promotes brain development and learning ; and particularly benefited children who find it hard to concentrate indoors .  " for the park it has restored heritage features ; improved access ; created a new educational resource ; raised standards of maintenance ; and focused attention on the next 10 years through the management plan .  " for fife council it has taken the park to the next level ; delivered valuable lessons on project management ; allowed investment at a time of budget cuts ; proved the value of volunteering ; and shown how partnership working with local groups can enhance the project . "  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standardards organisations 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a compaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here