


bloomington police officers kyle thomas , left , and josh mccoy ask a man who identified himself only as " ed " to leave a public conversation organized by the united methodist women wednesday night at the bloomington first united methodist church . he made remarks against islam and muslims during the talk about immigration and refugees.jeremy hoganherald-times  bloomington police officers kyle thomas , left , and josh mccoy ask a man who identified himself only as " ed " to leave a public conversation organized by the united methodist women wednesday night at the bloomington first united methodist church . he made remarks against islam and muslims during the talk about immigration and refugees.jeremy hoganherald-times  a discussion on immigration and refugees disrupted by a scuffle this week showed the importance of having such a conversation , organizers say .  the united methodist women hosted a forum and panel discussion about immigration and refugees wednesday evening at bloomington 's first united methodist church . it was advertised on a flier as a chance to " ask critical questions and engage in an educated conversation the challenges associated with the u.s. immigration system . "  instead , shouting and shoving ensued . police were called .  sara batman , vice president of the united methodist women , said she never expected the event to garner the reaction it did from the public . in some ways , she said , it shows the importance of an issue that has strong voices on both sides .  " though the event did not go as planned , we are looking forward to continuing the conversation of how best to welcome and care for those in need and those immigrating to the u.s. from all regions of the world , " batman said .  but not everyone believes immigrants or refugees should be allowed to enter the u.s. -- like one man who expressed his beliefs at the event on wednesday . he identified himself only as " ed . "  he told those in attendance that followers of islam wish to curse the u.s. and that the religion is one of hate . despite pleas from those around him to stop , he from him . a scuffle ensued , police were called and officers escorted ed from the church .  the united methodist women organization conducts educational meetings throughout the year and invites guest speakers to the church for discussions . usually , only members attend such meetings .  what made this occasion different was the importance of the topic and the diverse panel of experts , batman said . the group decided to extend an invitation to the public . though not widely advertised , batman suspects news of the meeting spread through word of mouth .  she said if the organization does something like that again , it will try to establish clearer rules regarding public comment .  that is a practice city and county officials say they use to guide public discussion at their meetings . bloomington city council member susan sandberg , who has served on the nine-member panel since 2007 , said the council seeks to keep a civil forum through formal rules .  the council allots a certain amount of time for comments on topics not included on the week 's agenda . people usually adhere to the time limit and thank the council for having a chance to comment , sandberg said .  if people get belligerent or physically violent , though , council members can signal to a police officer present during the weekly meeting .  " we 've had to sometimes bring the gavel down and have someone removed , but it 's rare , " sandberg said . " people understand in our forum , we want to keep it respectful . "  diekhoff , who served as a council member from 1999 to 2007 , sat on the city council at a time when uniformed officers were not assigned to the meeting detail .  then , the council had a plan in place , he said . should a member of the public become disruptive , cause problems or incessantly interrupt council members , the meeting would be adjourned until the person calmed down .  diekhoff could not recall putting that plan into action , but the contingency was there .  " the best course of action would be to just adjourn to do , but it de-escalates the situation , " he said .  it 's also best to avoid confronting a member of the public who becomes disruptive , he said . it has the potential to make matters worse .  monroe county council member geoff mckim said ground rules for public comment have to be strictly and consistently enforced . and those moderating must , likewise , show respect while audience members speak .  " if you are chairing a meeting , you need to make sure that you give the speakers your attention , even if you disagree with what they are saying , " mckim said .  liz grenat , executive director of the community justice and mediation center in bloomington , said agreed-upon rules for public comment can cultivate a supportive environment for personal expression . that does not mean there wo n't sometimes be conflict . it can be helpful to have someone trained in conflict resolution on hand to get things back on track .  * an update on the grassroots conservatives ' campaign to block the resettlement of syrian meeting on wednesday . the meeting will begin at 7 p.m. at the monroe county public library , 303 e. kirkwood ave. , in room 1b . doors will open at 6:30 p.m . bill pascoe , legislative coordinator for the tea party patriots , will speak at the meeting .  * the bloomington refugee support network will host an informational meeting on sept. 22 . the 7 p.m. will be at the monroe county public library in rooms 2a and 2b .  representative from el centro comunal latino community center , immigration law expert , professor in the department of near eastern languages and culture , and bloomington against islamophobia . that sounds like a real diverse panel .  welcome to the discussion .  keep it clean . please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.please turn off your caps lock.do n't threaten . threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.be truthful . do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.be nice . no racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.be proactive . let us know of abusive posts.share with us . we 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .