


Clinton 's Gage Harris ( 33 ) heads toward the end zone for a touchdown in the first half at Brady Street Stadium on Friday against Davenport West .  It 's not as though Davenport West football fans had n't already seen enough of Johnny Sullivan and Gage Harris in past years .  They got one more final , distasteful dose of Clinton 's dynamic duo Friday night .  Sullivan passed for 192 yards and engineered an offense that rolled up and down the field all night and Harris found his way into the end zone five times as the River Kings romped to a 51-18 victory over West in the season opener for both teams at Brady Street Stadium .  Both players went to the sideline for the last time in the third quarter as Clinton rolled up 441 yards of total offense against a green West defense comprised mostly of underclassmen .  It 's the third straight year in which Sullivan has thrown for 190-plus yards and three scores against the Falcons . Harris had a big game against them a great duo together , ' ' said West running back Dot Combs , who made a handful of big plays to keep the outcome from being even more lopsided . " Johnny is a really good passer and Harris is a big , physical back . They 're hard to handle . ' '  West coach Justin Peters said that while Sullivan and Harris piled up the stats , they had help .  " I do n't even think it was the quarterback as much as their line , ' ' he said . " Their offensive and defensive lines both outplayed us ...  " We 're a very young team , ' ' he added . " We 've got seven or eight juniors starting on defense . We do n't lack for talent , just experience . ' '  The Falcons could n't have gotten off to a much worse start in the game as two errant snaps from center on the first and third plays resulted in a 14-yard loss and a safety , giving Clinton a 2-0 lead after just a minute a year ago ) took it from there , consistently capitalizing on a short field to build a 37-6 halftime cushion . They started out in West territory on all but one of their first-half possessions .  The 210-pound Harris scored on runs of 1 and 2 yards and passes of 29 and 15 yards before halftime and later added one more score on a 3-yard run .  " We beat ourselves a lot , ' ' Combs said . " We misread a lot of our keys . We just have to get better on that . ' '  The Falcons ' one sign of offensive spark in the first half came after it stopped Clinton on downs at the 10-yard line just four seconds into the second quarter .  Jacob Milem slipped a short pass to Combs that the senior turned into a 42-yard gain . After a sack and a penalty , Milem hit Tyrese Ballard for 50 yards and Combs went the final eight yards into the end zone for the Falcons ' first points .  Combs intercepted a deep Sullivan pass scored on a 78-yard sprint up the middle , but the River Kings ' offense just kept countering with more points .