


related stories  it 's a controversial quota system used by michigan state police telling them how many people they should be pulling over .  critics call it unfair , they want m-s-p to ditch the quota system but state police , defend the policy .  some say the system could lead to racial profiling - the first to make that claim was a cop and now it is the american civil liberties union .  the aclu of michigan is calling on michigan state police to pull the plug on its evaluation system that requires -- and at times rewards -- troopers for making a certain number of traffic stops to meet performance standards  " our concern is that they may do two things , " said mark fancher , aclu attorney . " one is that they 'll stop people when they really should n't be stopped and two , they 'll stop people who they believe wo n't complain about having been stopped for no good reason and if they complain , will not be believed . "  fancher said inclined to stop a young person of color or any person who appears to be poor or powerless .  " if the police are stopping people when they should n't be stopping them and the people know that they should not have been stopped- then those are the ingredients for frustration , for anger which can boil over and cause some very unintended and undesirable results , " fancher said .  if the aclu 's concerns sound familiar it 's because you 've heard it before from a former cop .  " now the police i do not believe for a minute are inherently racist , but the policies that are put in place , reward a racist behavior , " said craig tuer , former msp trooper .  back in march we interviewed state trooper craig tuer--a 20-year veteran with michigan state police .  he told us about the 70 percent baseline evaluation troopers have to meet . in that story msp denied having a quota for tickets but acknowledged one of the areas subject to that baseline evaluation , was traffic stops .  profiling , " fancher said . " what we are saying is we 've spotted what we regard as a hazard . it 's very much like when you have broken glass on a pool deck . it may be that no one has cut their feet but you still sweep up that glass so that there are no injuries . "  while the aclu praises msp 's policies that prohibit racial profiling , the group finds the state police practice of not always recording the race or ethnic backgrounds of those stopped troubling . because there would be no way to find out if certain people were in fact being singled out .  in response to the aclu 's letter , michigan state police said this :  " the msp wholeheartedly disagrees with the aclu 's statement that the activity analysis program is ' problematic because it can create an incentive to stop motorists without proper grounds when troopers have deficient stop records and they become desperate to meet supervisors ' expectations . '  " troopers are trained to stop motorists only if there is a to believe criminal activity is afoot . stopping motorists without proper grounds or using race , ethnicity , or gender to select whom a trooper stops is in direct violation of the msp code of conduct . "  the aclu has been in conduct with state police since the letter was sent wednesday . a state lawmaker is working that would beef up racial profiling guidelines within police and sheriff departments across the state . but the last time that came up it did not get very far .