


more than 350 road accidents in devon and cornwall have been caused by motorists driving while tired over the past three years - the second highest in the country . the shocking new statistics also reveal that 13 fatalities in the region were caused by accidents relating to driving while tired .  the research obtained under the freedom of information act by online bed retailer time4sleep revealed that there were 358 accidents caused by falling asleep behind the wheel between 2013 and 2015 in devon and cornwall .  out of the 21 uk constituencies that responded to time4sleep 's freedom of information request , devon and cornwall ranked second in the uk for the most fatigue-related accidents .  region total ( over three years ) :  thames valley 399  devon and cornwall 358  sussex 256  kent 239  hampshire 192  surrey 174  essex 169  west mercia 160  warwickshire 144  hertfordshire 142  humberside 126  as part of the sleep drivers campaign , time4sleep conducted a nationwide survey which revealed 83%t of uk drivers admitted and a third of those felt they had put others at risk by doing so .  the company also commissioned a shocking experiment that showed that the risk of falling asleep behind the wheel increased significantly even after short-term disruption to sleep .  conducted in conjunction with the transport research laboratory , the research shows driving without sleep is " akin to being drunk behind the wheel " and illustrates the full danger of hitting the road while tired .  the experiment was carried out with 27-year-old triplets robert , stephen and patrick davis , who were given a full night 's sleep , disrupted sleep and no sleep respectively . the disrupted sleep pattern was designed to imitate that of a parent with a newborn baby .  the triplets then participated in a simulation replicating a 90-minute motorway drive in a real car . each driver was instructed to stay in the inside lane of the three-lane motorway and drive at a constant speed of 60mph . several test measures , including reaction speed , were implemented during the study .  jonathan warren , director accidents related to driver fatigue is a tremendous number and it is something that can be so easily avoided .  " as a bed and mattresses retailer , we know sleep is very important and affects our health and wellbeing .  " we wanted to conduct a study to find out the impact sleep deprivation can have on driving , to raise awareness of this important issue and encourage drivers to think twice before getting behind the wheel after experiencing lack of sleep . "  comments  i tottaly agree with the comments here , driving whilst tired is a killer ! but hey wait a minute devon and cornwall top of the shop lets think on this a minute . ah got it no motorway services to stop at between exeter and penzance ( even tho expensive , parking up and getting a nap life saver ) . cornwall services i hear not 24 hr i reply . but not only is it tiredness i scream how many times have you driven on the a30 over the moors ? notice any weather phenomenom ? ? ? fog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @