


services  in japan , pop groups have a lot of members - the most popular one has 48 !  pop groups have been popular across the world for many years . i remember the excitement of s club 7 - there were 7 of them !  it was such a new concept to have a larger group filled with choreographed , smiling young things . little did we know , across the sea in japan , this was no longer a new idea .  they are known as ' idol groups ' . these are manufactured pop groups that come with a huge following of all ages across japan . the most popular group right now is called akb48 - that stands for akihabara 48 . akihabara is the big ' geek ' area of tokyo , where the group is in residence , and 48 is the number of members . yes , you read that right - 48 members ! japanese idol groups are often much bigger in size than any western music groups , but fans still know all about own theatre and cafe in tokyo . every day , different line ups of members perform and take pictures with fans . this kind of culture means fans feel much closer to these groups than any others .  but it also has its issues , as one can imagine . a large number of these idol groups fans are usually adult men , rather than young girls . most of the fans are there because the girls are cute , and they enjoy the music and cute dance moves ; but others often have more serious feelings towards these young girls . only a couple of years ago , two of the members ( who were 18 and 19 years old at the time ) were attacked with a saw after one of their concerts by a crazed fan .  although akb48 is easily the most famous and beloved group in japan right now , they have sparked a trend of similar groups across the country , and even into korea . all these groups involve large numbers of young girls or guys , who are able to dance are even part talent show . every year , the fans will vote for their favourite member , and the winner will become the number one girl in the group . she will then be the leader for the rest of the year - every idol girls dream !  what do you think about these idol groups ? can you imagine them working well here in the uk , or they too weird , even for us ?  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here