


Josh Graff , UK managing director of the professional social network , said competition from within the UK and abroad , coupled with high living costs , meant businesses in the capital must do more to attract the best talent .  Capital tech ' exodus '  " I 'm always amazed at the trends you can get from our data , " Graff told TechWeekEurope . " London is a great magnet for talent . In software , the number of professionals has shot up year-on-year and is the highest rate of growth from all the industries we were monitoring . "  " But with grads specifically , London was losing a third of its talent . Some of the talent is flowing to other parts of the UK and others are going internationally -- the US , China and Germany .  " There is an urgency for London-based tech companies to double down and make sure they are continuing to attract the best talent . Our message is to start to be concerned about the potential exodus and start thinking about your need to have tools to refer graduates . "  Wider issues  " As an industry we need to solve the challenges young graduates face , " he said . They want to stay in the city but need help financially . I do n't think that 's unique to the tech industry . "  " As an industry , and government , we need to be collectively working . If you look at what the Mayor and everyone does that with tech specifically , they 've voiced their commitment to the sector . There 's a positive view there . "  Graff recognised that a skills gap was partly to blame for the difficulty in recruitment , but he also said that as more businesses digitise , the greater the competition for talent .  " Digital has changed every company , " he said . " Tech companies would traditionally compete with other tech firms but in today 's environment everyone is competing for engineers , so it 's important to brand yourself to other communities . "  Is it really that bad ?  ?  London has long had a reputation for drawing in Britain 's best young minds , arguably to the detriment of the rest of the UK .  With regional tech hubs and superfast broadband making it easier than ever to work in any part of the country , perhaps a re-balancing of the digital economy is a good thing .  Graff was more guarded on this issue , accepting that a less London-centric economy had its benefits but that the point about a capital exodus still stood .  " A partial departure from London is n't a bad thing because it provides value to the rest of the country , but tech firms need to make sure this is n't an exodus , " he said . " I think there 's wonderful opportunity for grads in all sectors to find placements elsewhere in the country . That is net positive for the UK economy , but I do think in London specifically there is an exodus of talent in tech and software . "  What about Brexit ?  And what about Brexit ? Any employers to recruit the best minds , something the capital 's tech community made it abundantly clear in both the run up to the London mayoral elections and the EU referendum .  " I do n't want to speculate too much as there 's a lot we do n't know , " said Graff . " London and the UK specifically has one of the most international workforces in the world and its ability to compete with other cities in the world is important . Even before Brexit the battle was keeping up and this has exacerbated it . "  " It is incredibly important to keep London as a hotbed of tech talent . With that uncertainty , but the advice we give to individuals and companies does n't change . "  Steve McCaskill is deputy editor of TechWeekEurope and joined as a reporter in 2011 having previously written for Steel Media . He covers telecommunications , networking , public sector IT , along with sports technology .