


Services  The calendar created by foodies that 's celebrating Dorset food and drink  A SPOONFUL of creativity and a dose of determination has empowered entrepreneurial women across Dorset to come together for a common cause and to produce a calendar for the love of Dorset Food &amp; Drink .  Inspired by an idea of Tracey Collins , founder of artisan produce company Ajar Of , who lives near Sturminster Newton , a calendar for 2017 has been made by women working together across the county who all love food .  The calendar highlights up-and-coming foodie females in Dorset making waves in the UK food producer scene .  The self-confessed ' foodies ' all support independent Dorset produce and companies , and they 're determined that more needs to be done to shine a light on women working in the industry .  The idea for the calendar was first founded at the Fish &amp; Ships festival in Portland , where Tracey Collins took note of the Dorset brands on display and felt it was time to share the love for local food thought we should all do something together to celebrate Dorset food and produce and thought about making a calendar .  " When we thought about it more we thought women in business is such a key thing at the moment . There 's not enough recognition out there at the moment .  " A lot of women here are pretty fantastic and we work very hard and so to get the light shining on us is great and especially when giving something back too . "  ' Fantastic ' is an understatement . Tracey is just one of the photographed women in the calendar whose story can inspire young women wanting to set up independent businesses .  She quit her day job in the city as an analyst to move to Dorset and and set up her ' Ajar Of ' business .  Today , Tracey 's office is her kitchen where she makes jams , marmalades , chutneys and sauces .  Tracey said : " I 've been amazed that though the county is full of jam makers , there 's always room for up the city and come and come live the good life .  " And now we have an outbuilding converted into a kitchen and so going to work is a joy . "  Ipsoregulated  This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here