


Favourites  Top stories  Financial Times : New York state 's attorney-general is investigating ExxonMobil over its reporting of its asset valuations , widening the probe launched last year into the company 's disclosures on climate change .  The Daily Telegraph : Royal Bank of Scotland 's shares were hit hard by renewed fears that the lender could face an unexpectedly enormous bill for selling toxic mortgage-backed securities ( MBS ) in the US before the financial crisis .  The Times : The Bank of England plans to revamp its 20-year-old payments system that embarrassingly crashed two years ago .  The Guardian : US businesses have warned European leaders they risk a " grievous self-inflicted wound " unless they overturn Brussels ' demand that Apple pay the Irish government ? 13 billion ( ? 11.4 billion ) .  Financial Times : Vedanta Resources is aiming to become a " complete natural resource company " to rank alongside BHP Billiton and Vale , the London-listed group 's chairman said after it sealed a merger between its Indian mining arm and the oil explorer a thinly veiled warning to Washington that it wants Deutsche Bank to be treated fairly compared with US rivals after Germany 's biggest lender received an unexpectedly large $14 billion claim to settle allegations of mis-selling mortgage securities .  Financial Times : Scotch whisky toasted the first recovery in export volumes for three years , after strong demand from India and France , but the value of foreign sales continued to fall .  Business and economics  The Guardian : China faces at least a four-year wait to find out whether its plans to build a nuclear power station in Essex will be approved .  The Guardian : Britain 's boardroom bosses have been warned they face a clampdown on bonuses and scrutiny over their pay , in the latest sign that Theresa May 's promise to reduce corporate excess is being heeded by City fund managers .  Financial Times : Avanti Communications , the British satellite broadband provider , has bought itself time to complete a sale of the business , after striking a deal to issue as much as $45.2 million in new bonds to Mail : The BHS scandal and bad practices at Sports Direct have triggered a sweeping investigation by MPs into boardroom practices at Britain 's biggest firms .  Daily Mail : Nine US bank bosses should have been investigated and charged by the FBI over the financial crisis in 2007 , documents just published have revealed .  Financial Times : Watchstone Group , the insurance technology company previously known as Quindell , cut its losses in the first half and said it was moving " closer " to becoming a simplified group .  Financial Times : Wolfgang Reitzle 's reputation for boardroom command took a knock this week when the Linde chairman failed to push through his plans to merge with US rival Praxair to create the world 's largest supplier of industrial gases .  The Times : Iran 's oil exports to India have reached a 15-year high as the Opec producer fights an increasingly acrimonious battle with Saudi Arabia to secure markets for its petroleum industry .  The Times : The Brexit factor appears to be counting in the fashion industry 's favour , with dissipated the impact of rising costs overseas , according to one of the biggest names at London Fashion Week .  The Times : The charitable trust that owns The Guardian is close to appointing a new chairman , according to reports , only a day after the newspaper announced widespread staff layoffs .  Share tips , comment and bids  The Guardian : Unilever is attempting to buy Hollywood actor Jessica Alba 's household goods company Honest for more than $1 billion ( ? 760 million ) .  Financial Times : SVG Capital , the London-listed private equity group , has added weight to its rejection of a ? 1.1 billion hostile takeover bid from US rival HarbourVest Partners by saying it had received several more promising approaches and posted a strong set of results .  The Daily Telegraph : Hollywood Bowl , Britain 's biggest ten-pin bowling operator , will be valued at ? 240 million when private equity owner Electra Partners floats the company on the stock market next week .  The Daily Telegraph : John Menzies , the distributor and aviation services provider operating across four continents , from BBA Aviation for $202 million ( ? 152.7 million ) in cash .  The Daily Telegraph : Phoenix Group , Britain 's largest owner of life assurance funds closed to new customers , has confirmed it 's in advanced talks with Deutsche Bank about acquiring the German lender 's UK insurance business , Abbey Life .