


om namo venkatesaya has fetched a whopping amount from the sale of its global distribution rights and it is said to be the highest price for the theatrical rights of a film featuring akkineni nagarjuna .  the buzz on social media claims that the makers of om namo venkatesaya have already sold its distribution rights in andhra pradesh , telangana ( ap/t ) and international markets . distributor dil raju is said to have bagged its nizam rights for a record price . the movie is said to have earned rs 26.50 crore from the sale of its ap/t theatrical rights .  soggade chinni nayana earned rs 16.60 crore from its ap/t distribution rights and it was the highest amount for a nagarjuna film . his next release oopiri shattered this record by fetching rs 24.30 crore . if we are to go by the buzz on social media , om namo venkatesaya has smashed both these records and become the highest earner for nagarjuna .  the buzz claims the makers of om namo venkatesaya have also struck a deal on its international distribution rights for rs 6 crore . the movie has fetched the highest price for nagarjuna until now , beating the records of his last releases soggade chinni nayana and oopiri , which earned rs 0.65 crore and rs 4 crore , respectively .  its theatrical rights for other regions have also fetched record prices . as per the buzz , om namo venkatesaya has earned rs 35 crore from the sale of its worldwide distribution rights . it is not only the highest price for a nagarjuna movie , but also a devotional film and the success rate of the king star is the reason behind such a high price .  om namo venkatesaya is a devotional and biographical film , based on the life of hathiram baba . nagarjuna akkineni is playing the lead role of baba in the film , while anushka shetty and saurabh raj jain appear as krishnamma and lord venkateswara , respectively . the movie is produced by a mahesh reddy on amr sai krupa entertainments . the movie brings back the hit trio of director k raghavendra rao , nagarjuna and music composer @ @