


" considering the sentiments of armed forces/soldiers at the frontier .... "  pakistani artists are in the crossfire of heightened tensions between india and pakistan following the terrorist attack that killed 18 soldiers in kashmir , earlier this month . after a right-wing group in maharashtra told pakistani artists to leave the country by september 25 , concerts of two pakistani singers , atif aslam and shafqat amanat ali , have been called off .  while aslam 's concert was to be held at the leisure valley park in gurugram on october 15 , ali 's performance was scheduled for september 30 at the forum mall in bengaluru .  the name of gurgaon was official changed to gurugram , last week .  " considering the sentiments of armed forces/soldiers at the frontier , the organisers are advised by the district administration , gurgaon , to defer the atif aslam concert , " the district administration of gurugram in a release , the indian express reported .  prior to issuing the release , members of the akhil bhartiya hindu kranti dal met with a letter which said , " if the event takes place , and any incident happens because of it , the district administration will be responsible . "  " gurgaon district administration plays with the sentiments of the country by giving pakistani artists permission to perform here . on the one hand , soldiers are losing their lives at the border because of pakistan-sponsored terrorism , and on the other , the district administration ... is inviting them here as guests , " the letter stated .  satyaprakash told the indian express : " there are chances of public protest or incidents like shoe-hurling . but if they ( organisers ) want to go ahead with the concert , we have to provide security , but half-heartedly . "  in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in uri , kashmir on 18 september , raj thackeray-led maharashtra navanirman sena had issued a 48-hour ultimatum for pakistani artists including fawad khan and ali zafar to leave india by september 25 .  in bengaluru , the vishwa hindu parishad and bajrang dal objected to radio mirchi organising the event mirchi said that the decision to cancel the event was taken without any external pressure . " the concert was cancelled on september 20 , much before the saffron parties raised the issue , demanding cancellation of the event , " radio mirchi group manager ( sales ) srinivas said , press trust of india reported .  officials of the forum mall said : " due to the deterioration of relation between the neighbours country we have instructed not to conduct any activity involving artist from pakistan at the venue . "