


South African business travellers beware : countries on the continent are tightening their requirements for business visas .  African countries are now often requiring not only a letter of invitation and an itinerary , but also proof of company registration , bank-account statements , tax-clearance certificates and a minimum bank balance .  " Contrary to popular belief , countries are getting stricter in terms of their requirements . Two , three years ago you could get away with the minimum . Now they are really strict , " says Raylene Pienaar , general manager of Corporate Traveller , one of South Africa 's top travel management companies .  Pienaar says while South Africans do not require business visas for many countries -- and especially those within the South African Development Community -- those requiring permits are becoming more demanding .  Apart from a written invitation from a local company , South African passport holders also need to provide a letter from their company in South Africa , a certificate of incorporation and three months ' bank statements , reflecting a balance of at particular about the documentation . So , for example , to visit Nigeria , Angola and Ghana , you can not just have any letter of invitation . It needs to be very specific . The addressee is specific and the name on the invitation has to be exactly the same as what 's in the traveller 's passport . For example , if your name is William but everybody calls you Bill , the invitation has to be addressed to William , " says Pienaar .  Some countries also require all documents to be translated into the local language , while still others require a tax-clearance certificate in addition to the other paperwork . Foreigners working for South African companies need to produce a residence or work permit valid for at least six months , she adds .  " If there 's not a six-month validity period , they will not consider the application , " Pienaar says , noting that South African passport holders also have to ensure their passports are valid for at least six months .  She urges business travellers to make sure they as with the documents needed , as it be can be arduous and expensive to get an emergency visa ( if the option exists ) .  " Business travellers need to start thinking about getting their visas as soon as they start planning their trip , " says Pienaar . " They can no longer afford to wait until the last minute . Forewarned is forearmed when it comes to securing a business visa . "  For more information or to arrange an interview , contact Lee-Ann Collingridge at lee-ann@flowsa.com or 072 125 2826 .  Everything South African business travellers need to know about securing a business visa :  They do , however , require visas for Angola , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Ghana , Nigeria , Rwanda and Tanzania .  Q : There seems to be confusion about whether I require a business visa for Namibia and Kenya ? What is the true situation ? Up until three to four months ago , there was confusion over whether South Africans required business visas for Namibia and Kenya . That has changed and tourism to those countries .  You do , however , require a visa if you are going to work in Namibia , but you can only apply once you are there , because the embassy in South Africa does n't process work visas .  Q : Do I have to apply from South Africa ? Several countries , such as Tanzania and Rwanda , allow you to procure your visa on arrival .  For others , such as Angola , Nigeria , Ghana and the Democratic Republic of the Congo , you need to apply before you fly .  Q : What if I have a foreign passport ? Then you generally need a visa . But you can get it on arrival in many countries , including Zambia and Zimbabwe .  Consult a visa expert for the requirements for your destination country .  Q : Is a business visa more expensive than a tourist visa ? There is generally little difference between the cost of business and tourist visas . However , for Tanzania , a business visa is 30% more expensive than a take to process a business visa ? Business visas typically take longer to process than tourism visas because you are required to produce more documentation .  Q : How do I pay ? It differs from country to country , but the most common is a bank transfer / deposit . Nigeria allows you to pay online , but you have to use your personal credit card . Ghana however deems that the only acceptable proof of payment is a bank deposit slip and does not allow electronic fund transfers ( EFT ) .  You should contact the relevant consulate to find out which form of payment is deemed acceptable .  Q : What happens if I do n't have much time to get a visa ? Some countries will allow you apply for an emergency visa , which is typically more expensive . Ghana and Angola , for example , both offer emergency visas . For Angola , it takes three days to process and , once the visa is issued , the traveller has 72 hours to arrive in Angola . Travellers on emergency visas to has two options : express and regular . The express option takes anything from 48 hours to four days , while the regular option takes between seven and 10 days . The difference in cost between the two visas is about R500 .  Corporate Traveller  Corporate Traveller is a division of the Flight Centre Travel Group , dedicated to saving businesses across Southern Africa time and money .  Corporate Traveller has the benefit of being part of the world 's third-largest travel retailer , leveraging its global negotiating strength . It has access to over 50 of the world 's leading airlines and deals with more than 100 000 hotels around the world to guarantee savings for clients .  Corporate Traveller provides clear , consolidated reporting of all its clients ' travel activities , helping them to control travel spend and identify opportunities to save costs .