


trump started pulling punches before the debate even started , holding an impromptu press conference where he was joined by four women : juanita broaddrick , kathleen willey and paula jones , who allege they were sexually assaulted by clinton 's husband , and kathy shelton , who was raped in 1975 when she was 12 . then a lawyer , clinton was appointed to defend shelton 's rapist , and in an interview years later , was recorded laughing while speaking about the case .  after the women finished speaking , a cbs reporter asked about the comments trump had made on the tape - specifically , about his claiming that his star status allowed him to touch women without consent . the reporter was immediately shouted down by trump supporters ( " why do n't you ask bill clinton ? ! " ) before being escorted out .  in a press release shortly after , clinton 's communications director jennifer palmieri called the conference " trump 's latest act of desperation " on his " destructive race to the bottom . "  the first audience question , and as anticipated , co-moderator anderson cooper asked trump about the tape .  " no , i did n't say that at all , " trump responded , apologizing for the remarks and saying he was n't proud of them , but repeated that they were " locker room talk . " he then started speaking about the atrocities committed by daesh , otherwise known as the islamic state or isis .  but cooper steered the answer back to the tape , pushing trump on whether he had actually kissed or groped women without consent .  " no , i have not , " trump eventually responded , but not before saying , " nobody has more respect for women than i do . "  in her response , clinton said it was clear to anyone who heard the tape that " it represents exactly who he is because we 've seen this throughout the campaign , " pointing out that trump has not only insulted , rated , and attempted to embarrass women , but has also attacked immigrants and minorities bring down the cost of the affordable care act , aka obamacare , while improving coverage , the candidates offered up two approaches - fix it up , and tear it down .  clinton agreed that premiums , copays and prescription drugs costs have gotten too high and said she would focus on fixing what was wrong with the act instead of starting from scratch . she pointed out several changes since the act was introduced , like how insurance companies can not deny coverage because of a pre-existing condition , and that 20 million americans previously without health insurance were now covered .  ?  when speaking of president barack obama 's signature health care law , clinton says she wants to ' save what works ' while trump says it needs to be replaced with a less expensive system .  on the other hand , trump called obamacare a " disaster " that was too expensive and would implode by 2017 . trump said he would repeal and replace it something that would allow multiple insurance companies to come in and compete , which would drop 's " single-payer plan ... would be a disaster , somewhat similar to canada , " trump said , describing the canadian health care system as " so slow " and " catastrophic in certain ways . "  on muslims and islamophobia  " there are 3.3 million muslims in the united states , and i 'm one of them , " a question-asker started , and asked how each candidate would address the rise of islamophobia in america .  responding first , trump said the asker was right about islamophobia " and that 's a shame , " but throughout his answer emphasized that " there is a problem " with " radical islamic terrorism . "  " muslims have to report the problems when they see them , " trump said , listing the san bernardino attacks and 9/11 as examples .  later on , when asked about his proposed ( and then retracted ) ban allowing muslims to enter the us , trump said he was for " extreme vetting . "  clinton took a more community-based view , saying that the u.s. and ears on our front lines " and that american is " not at war with islam . "  " i want a country where citizens like you and your family are just as welcome as anyone else , " clinton said to the question-asker .  the moderators managed to squeeze in one more audience question at the end ( and an oddly sweet , non-political one at that ) - could each candidate say one positive thing he or she respected about the other ?  that the trump children are all successful , clinton said , reflected positively back on him as a father , even though she does n't agree with his opinions . she added that she was a mother and grandmother herself , and that the nov. 8 election will be one of the most " consequential " in history .  trump said he took that as a compliment , and in turn , said he respected that clinton " is a fighter . " he added that , for the most part , he disagrees with what clinton is fighting for and or give up .  quips  " it 's just awfully good that someone with the temperament of donald trump is not in charge of the law in our country . " -- hillary clinton  " because you 'd be in jail . " -- donald trump  " hillary clinton wants to allow a 550 per cent increase over obama . people are coming into our country like we have no idea who they are , where they are from , what their feelings about our country is , and she wants 550 percent more . this is going to be the great trojan horse of all time . " -- trump  " donald trump is different . i said starting back in june that he was not fit to be president and commander-in-chief . and many republicans and independents have said the same thing . what we all saw and heard on friday was donald talking about women , what he thinks about women , what he does to women . " -- clinton  " no , did you -- no , answer the question raddatz  " why do n't you interrupt her ? you interrupt me all the time . " -- trump  " i do . " -- raddatz  " why do n't you interrupt her ? " -- trump  " would you please explain whether or not the muslim ban still stands ? " -- raddatz  " as i recall , that was something i said about abraham lincoln after having seen the wonderful steven spielberg movie called lincoln . it was a master class watching president lincoln get congress to approve the 13th amendment . it was principled , and it was strategic . and i was making the point that it is hard sometimes to get congress to do what you want to do and you have to keep working at it . " -- clinton  " we have an increase in murder within our cities , the biggest in 45 years . we have a divided nation , because people like ( clinton ) -- and believe me , she has tremendous hate in her heart . and when she said deplorables , she four years of barack obama , and that 's what you 're getting with her . " -- trump