


image copyrightlmeimage caption since leaving bros , logan has worked with the likes of robbie williams , tina turner and pink  bassist craig logan , who quit bros at the height of their fame , has broken his silence on the band 's reunion .  " it 's not something i 've ever wanted , " he told the bbc , confirming he will not be taking part in next year 's uk tour .  " i 'm going to save the public from me running around with the bass , because that just would n't be pretty any more . that part of my world has moved on . "  there was always two blonde ones and another one . i was the other onecraig logan on bros  since leaving bros , logan has managed the likes of tina turner and sade and helped launch robbie williams ' career .  he was head of rca records from 2006 to 2010 and now runs his own company , the london-based logan media entertainment , which looks after artists including anastacia , speaking exclusively to bbc news , logan said the bros reunion had come as a surprise but " totally had his blessing " .  the comeback was announced last week , initially as a one-off concert at london 's o2 arena , exactly 28 years after the band 's final show , at wembley stadium , in 1989 .  after the show sold out in seconds , brothers matt and like goss announced a full uk tour , taking place in august and september 2017 .  in his only interview about the reunion , logan spoke to the bbc about his memories of the band , including his collection of 1980s leather jackets , and how he has forged a career as one of the music industry 's most influential executives .  image copyrightrex featuresimage caption bros were , for a brief period , the biggest pop band on the planet  hello , craig . what has this last week been like for you ? has the phone stopped ringing ?  it 's been absolutely crazy . a lot of emails , a lot of a good way . it 's a bit of fun .  did you know the announcement was coming ?  this time , no . we 've spoken about it many times over the years , and they totally have my blessing .  if you got the call , would you go up there and do a five-minute bass solo ?  ha ha ! you know what ? i think they know that it 's not something that interests me . that part of my world has moved on .  at the press conference last week , matt said : " as far as i 'm concerned , bros is matt and luke . " what did you make of that ?  oh , you know . they 're launching a tour as the two of them , so that 's fine . there was always two blonde ones and another one . i was the other one .  this is something they 've really wanted . it 's not something i 've wanted . they will do great , they 'll put on a  image copyrightrex featuresimage caption craig ( right ) quit the band after a period of illness  i came across a photo of you playing at the hammersmith odeon , wearing a white polo neck sweater with the word ' bass ' stitched into the collar . do you remember it ?  do you know what , i think i 've still got that ! i 've definitely got all the jackets - with words like bass , groove , boogie on them . they 're up in the loft somewhere . they 're not hanging up in the cupboard .  or in a glass display case in the living room ...  no , not on display . but i am very proud of the time i was in bros . i would do it all again .  what 's your favourite memory ?  i was 17 when it all kicked off . and we travelled the world , being friends , playing in front of huge audiences and that was real fun . but i was never comfortable with fame , in all honesty push , sold seven million copies  when did you realise it was n't for you ?  actually , it was pretty simple . i was unwell at the end of 1988 . we were on tour in berlin and i had what they called me at the time now known as chronic fatigue syndrome . and at that point , i was so weak . i had just had enough .  i was going out with kim appleby at the time , from mel and kim , and mel was going through lots of treatment for cancer . i remember looking at her and thinking : " what am i doing ? this is crazy . this is not worth it . "  is it right you started piano lessons at the royal school of music , wearing a disguise to avoid the brosettes and the paparazzi ?  i did ! i did n't want to learn about beethoven and bach , but i wanted to understand the theory of music , about chords and harmony . that 's what propelled me into songwriting and i stuff .  at the same time you were in court , trying to get out of the contracts you 'd signed as part of bros . is that what prompted you to move into the business side of things ?  exactly right . i used to go in the lawyers ' offices in the morning and we 'd go through things piece by piece . that really helped me understand how this business works . how artists get paid , how royalties are split up , how contracts are worded . it was the foundation for pushing me into the business side .  as someone who manages artists now , do you warn them about signing dodgy contracts ?  in all honesty , we had a contract that we were advised not to sign but we decided to sign it . we felt it was the right way to propel us forward - and you know what ? it was the right decision . we did ok out of it .  image caption bros had 11 top 40 hits between 1989 and 1991  you 've , pink and joe cocker . such big artists can be a handful , so what was your secret ?  one of the big things that 's been a real benefit for me is the fact i 've been out there . i 've made records , i 've toured , i 've made videos , i 've sat in a norwegian hotel room and done 10 interviews one after the other - so i could relate to an awful lot of the artists .  with robbie , they said : " you 're ex-boyband , he 's ex-boyband , you guys would be great together . " so i used to travel with him a lot .  some of the shows they were planning , i 'd actually done myself . so i could give them first-hand experience . and that has definitely benefitted me .  you signed pink after her first album and steered her towards becoming a global star . how did that come about ?  when we started making the missundaztood record in 2001 , we all had visions of it being visionary one . she was the one who wanted to work with songwriter linda perry .  one day i went to pick her up in la and she said : " i was in the studio with linda perry last night , and i 've got this song . do you want to hear it ? " and she played me get the party started . it was just a demo but she could see i loved it . she has incredible instincts .  but the best artists usually have a vision of where they want to go , and your job is just to keep them on the train tracks .  what 's the one bit of advice you give all your artists ?  listen - because none of us know it all . you 've got to soak up what 's around you .  and then i 'm always looking for the little glint in their eye , and i always try to scare them a little bit . i do n't mean in a bad way - but you 've got to make sound glamorous , but this is hard work . you do n't just turn up and strum a guitar a couple of times a week . and they have to understand how hard that 's going to be on their personal lives .  you 're about to launch your own record label . given the state of the record industry , is that a wise idea ?  i think it 's a great time to have an independent label . the key before was always distribution . you 'd rely on an awful lot of other people to get your records into shops . now , distribution is pretty straightforward to set up . after that , you have to understand how to build an international strategy for any particular artist .  cher lloyd is a great example . we hit a problem in the uk on her debut release and a lot of people would have gone : " well , that 's that then . " but we took her to america and we sold two or three million records and built a business for her label , a new publishing company and also a tv sync company - for putting music into tv and film - is i want to have lots of routes to the market for my artists . you just have to be nimble . and if you put some knowledge in there , and some skill in there , you can actually do some damage .