


india continued to tear into pakistan in the global arena as it branded the hostile nation as the " epicentre " of terrorism at the 135th assembly of the inter-parliamentary union at geneva  new delhi india , oct. 25 : india continued to tear into pakistan in the global arena as it branded the hostile nation as the " epicentre " of terrorism at the 135th assembly of the inter-parliamentary union at geneva , adding that people of pakistan occupied kashmir ( pok ) have become victims of sectarian conflict and terrorism due to islamabad 's authoritarian and discriminatory policies .  earlier this month , pakistan reportedly handed over a dossier to the president of un general assembly concerning " human rights violations " in kashmir . asserting that the human rights violations in entire pakistan cry for the world 's attention , india called on islamabad to focus its energies on " setting its own house in order " and acting against the perpetrators of terrorist attacks on its neighbours instead of ritually raking up alleged human rights violations elsewhere . ( also read centre in quetta , 12 injured )  " pakistan has raised the issue of un security council resolutions . we would suggest pakistan to first fulfill its primary obligation under the resolutions to vacate illegal occupation of pakistan occupied kashmir , " read india 's statement . india further called upon pakistan to stop inciting and supporting violence and terrorism in any part of india and refrain from meddling in its internal affairs in any matter . this is the second attack by india against pakistan internationally , as prime minister narendra modi had labelled the neighbour as the " mothership " of terrorism at the brics summit in goa earlier this month .  " in our own region , terrorism poses a grave threat to peace , security and development . tragically its mothership is a country in india 's neighbourhood . terror modules around the world are linked to this mothership . this country shelters not just terrorists . it nurtures a mindset . a mindset that loudly proclaims that terrorism is justified for political gains . it is a mindset that we strongly condemn , " @ @ @