


Glad Karan Johar 's film is out of ' mushkil ' , says Pak envoy Abdul Basit  Shares120  Tue , 25 Oct 2016-09:40am , ANI  " Pakistan has never tried to snap cultural relations with India . ' Glad to know Karan Johar 's film is out of ' mushkil ' , said Islamabad envoy Abdul Basit .  With ' Ae Dil Hai Mushkil ' finally being cleared for release after the movie underwent a massive onslaught for having Pakistani actor Fawad Khan in it , Islamabad envoy Abdul Basit on Monday said that he was glad the movie was out of hot waters .  Speaking here at the Institute of Peace and Conflict , the Pakistani envoy made a pun saying , ' Glad to know Karan Johar 's film is out of ' mushkil ' , " and wished the audience a happy Diwali .  Asserting that Pakistan has never tried to snap cultural relations with India , Basit further said that artistes from his country have been facing a range of issues in India .  He also been enjoying Indian entertainment channels like Zee and Star .  Talking about the ban on Indian channels , he added , ' I just think this is short lived . '  On October 1st , two days after India 's movie industry body banned Pakistani artists and technicians from working in India , Islamabad banned the broadcast of all Indian television channels in Pakistan .  Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority ( PEMRA ) said strict action would be taken if TV channels and distribution networks failed to implement the ban after October 15 . It said it has been receiving complaints that several local private channels were showing Indian talk shows , reality programmes and dramas without permission .  Earlier , decks were cleared for the release of ' Ae Dil Hai Mushkil ' on Saturday after a meeting of film producer Karan Johar with Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and MNS chief Raj Thackeray in Mumbai .  " Every producer who has cast a Pakistani actor must contribute Rs 5 crore to the Army welfare fund , " MNS chief Raj Thackeray said after the to give in writing that they will not take Pakistani actors in their films in future .  Speaking to the reporters after the meeting , Mukesh Bhatt said that it was " positive and constructive and ' Ae Dil Hai Mushkil ' will release as per the schedule . "  " We discussed the unfortunate events related to the film 's release . I shared the film industry 's emotions regarding the entire issue . We are Indians first and then comes our business , " he said .  Ranbir Kapoor , Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Anushka Sharma who are starring in the film , will also contribute a portion of its revenue to the Army welfare fund , Bhatt said , adding " We owe this to the Army . "  Bhatt also said that they have assured Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis that neither the Producers ' Guild nor any filmmaker will work with any Pakistani artiste or technician in the future .  Also , the Producers ' Guild will call a meeting to pass a resolution on not working with Pakistani artists and a and Broadcasting Ministry as well as the chief minister , he said .  However , taking on his cousin and Raj Thackeray for asking filmmakers to donate Rs 5 crore to the Army , Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the Indian armed forces do not need ransom money .