


never cry wolf , it 's not the end of indian story  a deeper look at medium to long-term horizon reveal that the macros remain in place , and cynical gross exaggerations about where the industry is headed , remain unfounded.et bureau october 25 , 2016 , 09:39 ist  these days when i read the " obits " of the indian it industry penned by doomsday prophets , i am reminded of what mark twain once said when he read his own obituary in the newspaper . " the rumours of my death were vastly exaggerated . " the level of uncertainty that the world is grappling with is clearly not just in the indian it sector . janet yellen , the fed chief , recently remarked , " extreme economic events have often challenged existing views of how the economy works and exposed shortcomings in the collective knowledge of economists " .  having said that , there is no denying that the industry is buffeted by short-term factors , which have had an impact on the results of some of the bellwether companies , a deeper look at medium to long-term horizon will reveal that the macros remain in place , and cynical gross exaggerations about where the industry is headed , remain unfounded .  by now , it is pretty obvious what the short-term factors are and their seismic impact . these include , but are not limited to , brexit and the impact of a weakening pound taking a toll on financial conditions and market sentiments . slowdown in bfsi , a result of low interest rates , which has led to many advanced-economy banks facing profitability challenges related to low net interest margins and delaying discretionary spending in the sector .  the uncertainties surrounding us presidential elections is leading to slowdown in decision making . while short-term challenges do provide grist to the mills of sceptics , we should not jump to hasty , ill-founded conclusions . we should also draw succour from the fact that this is not the first time the it industry is confronting severe challenges . i am quite confident that the industry is robust enough to negotiate these humps successfully , this time as that the future will be considerably different from a mere linear extrapolation of the present and will not be characterised by the current business models .  analysts indicate that global it spend is steady right now , and if anything , there 's been a rise , albeit not a sharp one . for india too , the overall share has remained constant and not reduced . i do believe that the current adverse conditions are in the process of bottoming out and are unlikely to witness any further free fall . what is noteworthy , however , is that within the sector , results have not been uniform . a top-line growth for instance , has been offset by flat margins and vice versa , which adds to the complexity in interpretation . also , the industry can not have a one-size-fits-all outlook . it is much diversified with a mix of sub sectors -- it services , bpm and engineering and have different growth rates . in addition , gics and mncs contribute about a third of the total exports basket and are seeing a constant growth trend and indian companies increasingly focus on building digital platforms to redefine how their services/solutions can be delivered . this has led to de-coupling of revenue and productivity . simply put , the industry revenue of $100 billion saw three million people being added , but the next hundred would require less , only about half that number , as the nasscom-mckinsey study indicates . while the commonly held threat perception about job losses remain , the opportunity to get re-skilled in new areas is unmistakable .  technology disruption eventually creates better jobs than what it takes away . interestingly , the average deal sizes are getting smaller ( $0.18 billion in 2015 to $0.14 in 2016 ytd , idc ) , rendering higher chances for new entrants to claim a share of the pie , especially in the digital business . enterprises are opening up to the idea of new sourcing models and creating opportunities for entrants . the demand will be for a combination of domain knowledge , consulting experience and technological expertise . in 2016 , there has been an increase in contracts that combine both consulting and opportunities , the interlinkages between smaller niche players and large companies have been growing stronger and spurring collaborative models or acquisitions .  the indian it industry is not about services exports alone . an under-served domestic market provides new opportunities for the industry . the gargantuan challenges that the nation is grappling with in the areas of healthcare , education , financial inclusion , are all perceived as billion-dollar opportunities . certainly , solutions which will work for india will find resonance in other markets as well . ecommerce and technologies driving the shared economy are also worthy mentions here , with phenomenal growth rates .  the nasscom-mckinsey study indicates that the level of digital adoption and its consequent impact will not be uniform . digital attackers , followers and laggards will co-exist and the industry in india is building solutions to address all the three constituents . it is wild speculation to predict that a $150-billion industry that has been painstakingly built over several decades , which today disseminates best practices in more than 80 countries , will evaporate overnight . new opportunities will enable industry to deliver . india will continue to be the largest producer of world-class engineers and data analysts/scientists and to innovate at scale , india is and will be the destination . rest on our laurels ? we definitely should not and wo n't ; the digital future we are learning , and the current bump will act as a catalyst for the industry to make that inevitable leap into the future and cross the chasm.