


mahama criticism of npp promises hypocritical - nana addo  the presidential candidate for the new patriotic party ( npp ) nana akufo-addo has taken a swipe at president john mahama for describing npp 's pledge to extend the service period for army recruits from 25 years to 30 years as a political gimmick .  according to nana akufo-addo , president mahama , national democratic congress ( ndc ) flagbearer , has no moral right to question his pledges since he has reneged on most of his promises .  president mahama also described this particular promise was a mere afterthought on the npp 's part as this proposal did not feature in its 2016 manifesto .  but speaking at a rally at gomoa akoti in the central region , the npp flagbearer suggested president mahama was being hypocritical with his criticism of the retirement age promise .  " the president says our pledge to increase the retirement age of recruits to 30 years as stated by the sub-committee chairman on defense and interior , dominic nitiwul , is a ploy for vote buying , " nana akufo-addo said .  " he also added that he never reneges on his promises . we were all in this country when we were promised the one time national health insurance premium payments . have they done that ? " " you promised to build 200 community day senior high schools . your own finance minister in october and november stated publicly that only nine had been built .  is that a feature of an honest person , " the npp flagbearer quizzed . ' my promises are not election gimmicks ' earlier on the campaing trail , nana akufo-addo has said he and his npp were above making promises as a mere political gimmick .  nana akufo-addo assured ghanaians his promises to make ghana a better place for all was not just a campaign message to win votes . he said to the people of hohoe in the volta region during a rally that the npp had a competent team to execute all the promises made on the campaign trail ghanaians .  notable nana addo promises as part of plans to industrialize and government plans to help establish a factory in each of the 216 districts across the country , if he wins the 2016 elections .  nana akufo-addo also promised to establish one dam in every village in the northern part of the country to boost agriculture through a well planed irrigation policy . the npp flagbearer also promised to create another region from the western region , should he emerge winner in the december polls .  nana akufo-addo 's promises have however been met by questions of feasibility and criticism from the governing national democratic congress ( ndc ) with the party largely accusing him pandering for votes .