Condemnation, sorrow greet Governor Bentley's definition of ...
http://blog.al.com/breaking/2011/01/condemnation_sorrow_greet_gove.html

joe songer / birmingham newsgov . robert bentley , second from right , visits dexter avenue king memorial baptist church shortly after his inauguration monday . he gave his first speech after his inaugural address from the pulpit used by dr. martin luther king during his tenure at the church .  speaking from the pulpit of dexter avenue baptist church , the congregation dr. martin luther king jr . pastored during the stormy days of civil rights struggles in montgomery , bentley said , " anybody here today who has not accepted jesus christ as their savior , i 'm telling you , you 're not my brother and you 're not my sister , and i want to be your brother . "  bentley 's communications director , rebekah caldwell mason , later said that the governor had intended no offense by his remarks .  " he is the governor of all the people , christians , non-christians alike , " she said , using language that echoed phrases of bentley 's inaugural address .  however , his remarks have offended . jewish people and empowering equal treatment for all , today issued a stern condemnation of bentley 's statement .  " it is shocking that governor bentley would suggest that non-christians are not worthy of the same love and respect he professes to have for the christian community , " said adl southeast regional director bill nigut . " his comments are not only offensive , but also raise serious questions as to whether non-christians can expect to receive equal treatment during his tenure as governor . "  the rev. dr. david freeman , senior pastor of huntsville 's weatherly heights baptist church and chairman of the leadership council for the city 's interfaith mission service , reacted not with shock but something more like sorrow .  " gov . bentley was using ' insider ' language , " freeman said . " people in his church knew exactly what he meant . i grew up with that language , so i understand it , too . however , i now believe that that language points to one of the great failures of fundamentalist christian theology .  " beings as our sisters and brothers . that is a gift the world 's faiths. "