Neighbor charged in murder of Dolton grad student
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2011-01-18/news/ct-met-dolton-shooting-0119-20110118_1_dolton-residents-dolton-home-robbery-attempt

Neighbor charged in murder of Dolton grad student  Father asks : ' Where can I live that I feel safe ? '  January 18 , 2011By Andy Grimm , Tribune Reporter  After his son 's body was found in the driveway of his Dolton home in November , Wale Awomolo pleaded with his neighbors to help catch the killers .  The man charged this week in the slaying , it turns out , lived two blocks away . Prosecutors say Nelon Drake , 22 , himself gave investigators the tip that led to his being charged Monday in the murder of 21-year-old graduate student Olubusayo Awomolo .  " It is like a nightmare , like I 'm dreaming . Can this be true ? " Wale Awomolo said . " My own neighbor will kill my son ? I 'm just sick of life , honestly . Where can I live that I feel safe ? "  Drake was charged with first-degree murder and armed robbery in the Nov. 29 killing , which allegedly began with a robbery attempt , Cook to a Dolton Police Department statement , six others , including two Dolton residents , were charged with taking part in the robbery or concealing the killing . Dolton police did not return calls for comment .  Drake offered information on the killing -- without implicating himself as the shooter -- to investigators after he was charged in connection with a Jan. 12 armed robbery , Daly said .  Wale Awomolo said he and his family had all but given up hope of finding the killer when no witnesses stepped forward , even after a $2,000 reward for tips was announced . Awomolo said neighbors told him they had seen a group of young men approach Olubusayo and a scuffle break out . One witness said she heard gunshots and ran into her house .  " But she did n't even call the police , " Wale Awomolo said .  Police arrived only after Olubusayo 's older brother returned home that evening . In the darkness , he assumed a drunk had passed out in the driveway .  Olubusayo 's mother was visiting from Kenya when just days before the family learned a suspect had been arrested , Wale Awomolo said .  It was not the community response Wale Awomolo expected after he worked to bring his six children to the U.S. from his native Nigeria and its depressed economy and political instability .  Since he arrived in Chicago in the 1970s , Awomolo has circled the city and suburbs in a cab to support his children , working 12-hour shifts and still finding time to earn an MBA . Two of Olubusayo 's older siblings are in medical school , two are engineers , and another is an accountant , Wale said .  When Wale Awomolo 's cab was broken into a few years ago , he decided his family would be safer in the suburbs , so he moved to a bungalow in Dolton . Olubusayo made few friends in the neighborhood , his father said .  " He was all the time with his studies . He was at school and on his computer , " his father said . Olubusayo was only a few months away from a master .  Despite Olubusayo 's long hours at school and Wale Awomolo 's longer hours in his cab , the father said he saw his son every morning and could not sleep at night until he saw his son was home .