Local experts tout benefits of plant-based nutrition
http://www.columbian.com/news/2011/jan/18/local-experts-tout-benefits-of-plant-based-nutriti/

local experts tout benefits of plant-based nutrition  derrick delay , a personal trainer at northwest personal training in vancouver , instructs amanda otto during her half-hour workout session . delay encourages people to shift to a plant-based diet for improved health .  they are writing a book together titled " beyond good " and they will share their philosophy in a presentation at northwest personal training on jan. 26 .  they are inspired by dr. t. colin campbell 's " the china study , " a book that argues a plant-based diet can prevent heart disease , diabetes and cancer . the gist of the book is captured in a new documentary , " forks over knives , " playing at regal fox tower stadium 10 in portland through thursday .  in working on their book , delay and ozgur are looking for people willing to be case studies . delay , who adheres to a vegan diet , will work with people willing to try completely giving up animal products . ozgur will work with those willing to try her approach -- fish .  " our clients ask , ' what about the protein ? ' " she said . " but you do n't need a lot of protein , especially in the form of animal protein . with that comes a lot of bad stuff . "  they have both seen clients suffer on the atkins diet , which emphasizes meat and restricts carbohydrates . those who lost weight simply dropped water , not fat , and had little energy for their workouts , delay said .  ozgur and delay encourage people to change their approach .  " you did n't put it on overnight , and it 's not going to come off overnight , " ozgur said . " we 're talking about not losing weight but gaining health . "  here are some of ozgur and delay 's tips to achieve that goal :  * try the 90-percent rule .  ozgur recommends shooting for 90 percent of the food you consume to be plant foods . cut animal products to one serving a day -- 1 cup of milk , 1 ounces of fish . as for treats , reserve them for special occasions . when you do indulge , it 's best to make your treats yourself so you know what 's in them . ozgur does , however , give the green light to 1 ounce of dark chocolate , which is packed with antioxidants , a day .  * think in terms of calorie density .  a pound of romaine has 100 calories , a pound of whole grains has about 500 calories , a pound of meat has between 700 and 1,000 calories , and a pound of nuts has 3,000 calories . choosing foods with 500 to 600 calories a pound or less will lead to weight loss , delay said . that also means avoiding processed foods , which are very calorie dense , he said .  * accentuate the positive .  do n't fixate on what you ca n't have , delay said . " instead of feeling like you 're going on a diet and depriving yourself , focus on the fact that you 're eating healthy , wonderful foods .  * think long term .  " do n't pick a diet you do n't intend to stay on forever , " ozgur said . " we 're americans and we like a quick fix . but you have to retrain your thinking : this is a lifestyle change . "  black bean burgers  makes 4-6 patties .  alison ozgur , a registered dietitian , and derrick delay , a certified personal trainer , both of northwest personal training , emphasize that eating a plant-based diet can be enjoyable . here is a recipe for healthful , vegan black bean burgers from derrick delay 's web site , http : //www.vibrantvegan.com .  if you are in the mood for something hearty and delicious , these black bean burgers will satisfy . they are great served with salsa and a fresh green salad .  1/2 cup flour  1 small onion  2 cloves garlic , minced  1/2 teaspoon dried oregano  1 small hot or jalapeno pepper , minced  1 tablespoon olive oil  1/2 medium red pepper , diced  2 cup corn niblets  1/2 cup bread crumbs  1/4 teaspoon cumin  1/2 teaspoon salt  2 teaspoons chili powder  2 tablespoons fresh parsley , minced ( optional )  on a small plate , set aside flour for coating . in a medium saucepan , saute the onion , garlic , oregano and hot pepper in oil on medium-high heat until the onions are translucent . add the peppers and saute another 2 minutes , until pepper is tender . set aside . in a large bowl , mash the black beans with a potato masher or fork . stir in the vegetables ( including the corn ) , bread crumbs , cumin , salt , chili powder , and parsley . mix well . divide and shape into 5 or 6 patties . lay down each patty in flour , coating on each side . cook in a lightly oiled frying pan on medium-high heat for 5-10 minutes or until browned on both sides .