Who would steal a baby, and why?
http://www.cnn.com/2011/HEALTH/01/25/baby.abduction.profile/

share this on :  who would steal a baby , and why ?  such cases of baby abductions are extremely rare -- 271 cases in the u.s. have been reported since 1983 .  story highlights  women who steal newborns do so to hold on to a faltering relationship , experts say  typical perpetrator is not motivated by maternal instincts or a burning desire for motherhood  such cases are rare -- but tragic for families involved  ( cnn ) -- in a case that captured much attention this week , a woman told investigators she abducted an infant from a new york hospital in 1987 , hoping to raise the child as her own after she 'd suffered multiple miscarriages .  why would someone steal another person 's child ?  in these types of cases when a woman snatches a baby , the typical perpetrator is not motivated by maternal envy or a burning desire for motherhood . it 's usually her desire to hang on to a boyfriend or husband in a deteriorating relationship , experts said . baby .  " it sounds bizarre , " said cathy nahirny , a senior analyst on infant abduction cases at the national center for missing &amp; exploited children . " it 's to hold on to the male partner . "  the reasoning may sound like a plot line from a soap opera , but the aftermath is tragic .  such cases of baby abductions are extremely rare -- 271 cases in the u.s. have been reported since 1983 . about 4 million babies are born in this country every year .  half of the abduction cases occurred in health care facilities , where a woman masquerading as a hospital employee walked off with a newborn -- much as ann " annugetta " pettway confessed to doing at harlem hospital .  pettway has admitted to taking 19-day-old carlina renae white in 1987 . white recently was reunited with her biological family .  on sunday , pettway turned herself in and told investigators that she had been unable to give birth , according to court papers filed monday .  pettway 's cousin told the new an attempt to hold on to her boyfriend . the new york post was first to report the story .  nahirny does not have firsthand knowledge of pettway 's case and spoke about such cases in general .  in similar kidnappings , nahirny said , the abductor often is a woman feeling trapped .  " because she has already announced to her male partner that she 's pregnant , the relationship may be warming up , " said nahirny , who has examined hundreds of similar cases . " she 's afraid to tell him she has had a miscarriage . she has it in her head that he 's going to leave . "  the phenomenon transcends race and socio-economic status . the woman is likely to be of childbearing age and often overweight , according to the infant abductor profile used by the national center for missing &amp; exploited children . the profiles were formed after examining traits and police reports .  " the person is of low-self esteem , who either had a baby or lost a baby , had some kind of " said jeff aldridge , the president of security assessments international , which advises hospitals about security procedures for nurseries .  the abducted child is usually well cared for , aldridge said .  infertility generally does not drive the crime , experts say .  " it 's not a matter of they 're not able to produce , " said john rabun , executive vice president and chief operating officer of the national center for missing &amp; exploited children . many of the women have given birth before and use that experience to feign another pregnancy . the issue for them is to produce a baby on cue , he said .  once a woman lies to her boyfriend or husband about her pregnancy , she has to produce a child within that time frame .  " she 's not able to tell him that she miscarried . he 's going to leave her . she 's under a time pressure , " he said .  this means she can not take fertility treatments or adopt a child -- all of which take time . pregnant women and cut babies out of wombs , according to the national center for missing and exploited children .  in 2009 , a maryland woman attempted to cut a fetus out of a pregnant woman using a box cutter . in 2005 , a pennsylvania woman beat her pregnant neighbor with a baseball bat and tried to cut her stomach to steal the baby .  " this is not psychiatric issue . they 're sane ; they decide to commit a criminal act . " rabun said .  the fact that many women carefully prepare , watch for babies that have similar physical traits means " they know what they 're doing , " he said .  nahirny agreed .  " i would say none of these abductors have psychotic breaks , " she said . " it 's too planned . "  they frequently visit the nursery and maternity units , asking the staff detailed questions about procedures and the maternity floor layout . they become familiar with the staff , their work routines and the victims ' parents .  " my out there , " nahirny said .  they deceive their boyfriends or husbands about their pregnancies and manipulate themselves into position to abduct children , she said .  in jail interviews , the women expressed disappointment that they were caught .  " they focus on how awful this is and ' can you believe it 's happening to me ? ' " rabun said , calling the inmates narcissistic . " these women 's needs are above the community 's needs , above the natural parents . ' it 's one thing to steal a wallet -- but a newborn -- wow ! "