Why Women Walk Out More Than Men
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/vicki-larson/why-women-want-out-more-t_b_792133.html

Why Women Walk Out More Than Men  I had been following the on-again , off-again , on-again divorce of Sean Penn and Robin Wright for a while , not because I 'm celeb crazed but because before Penn took off for Haiti and Wright to L.A. , they lived just a few miles from me . I sometimes would see Wright around town , looking like any other San Francisco Bay Area yummy mommy shopping at Whole Foods or checking out the guitars at the local music shop , just much more famous and a heck of a lot richer .  So when I read Penn 's complaint to the Hollywood Reporter a few weeks ago that he 'd been " taken for one half of everything I had in the divorce , " I had to laugh -- " Well , what did you expect , if you carry on like that ? " -- and I had a flashback to my own divorce a few years prior .  Like Wright , there were affairs and other shenanigans . Like Wright , we was the one who finally said , " I want a divorce " -- the hardest words I ever had to say . And , like Penn , my then-husband was dumbfounded -- " You 're leaving me ? "  Yes , I was , and that 's because he was doing everything that looked like leaving me except the actual leaving part .  Men , evidently , do n't leave .  As it turns out , it 's -- sadly -- the only thing Wright and I do share , but it 's something we have in common with a lot of other marital splits . Women ask for divorce two-thirds more often than men . But it is n't so much because the wives woke up one day and " fell out of love " or realized they had " different values or lifestyles , " as many 50-something men who initiated divorce told AARP in a survey a few years back .  No , something else is clearly happening . It may be true that men do n't leave but you have to look wisely said , " The truth is more important than the facts . "  So what is going on ?  According to the National Marriage Project , formerly at Rutgers University , now at the University of Virginia , a lot :  " Two-thirds of all divorces are initiated by women . One recent study found that many of the reasons for this have to do with the nature of our divorce laws . For example , in most states women have a good chance of receiving custody of their children . Because women more strongly want to keep their children with them , in states where there is a presumption of shared custody with the husband the percentage of women who initiate divorces is much lower . Also , the higher rate of women initiators is probably due to the fact that men are more likely to be " badly behaved . " Husbands , for example , are more likely than wives to have problems with drinking , drug abuse , and infidelity . "  Last year proved to be a bumper crop of " Elin Nordegren , and Eva Longoria . But if the gals did n't file for divorce , would Jesse , Tiger , or Tony have dumped them and perhaps shacked up with the other woman -- or , in some cases , women ? Probably not .  A few authors who 've paid attention to those sorts of things cite some rather pathetic statistics that " the other woman " should pay attention to : about 3 percent of cheating men marry their lovers , according to Jan Halper ( Quiet Desperation : The Truth About Successful Men ) and about 75 percent of those marriages end up in divorce , according to Frank Pitman ( Private Lies : Infidelity and the Betrayal of Intimacy ) .  So , is it a case of guys having their cake and eating it , too ? I do n't know , but there does seem to be some sort of disconnect between actions and reactions .  Of course , affairs are n't the only reason women file for divorce more than men . And Penn certainly is n't the only n't have to work " ; men lose a lot in divorce , not just money and houses , but often access to their kids . That 's not OK , either .  Still , you 'd think that sober reality alone would be enough to shape up all that " bad " behavior . Instead , what it 's probably doing is keeping a lot of young men from wanting to get married in the first place ; with about half of marriages ending in divorce , saying " I do " is a big financial gamble for them .  And , sure , there are many , many " badly behaved " women out there . But at least if they cheat , most of them -- 55 percent , according to Susan Shapiro Barash ( A Passion for More : Wives Reveal the Affairs That Make or Break Their Marriages ) -- have the decency to leave .