Indigestion: Natural Remedies for Relief
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/andrew-weil-md/indigestion-natural-remedies-for-relief_b_812458.html

indigestion : natural remedies for relief  indigestion is n't an especially glamorous medical topic , but relieving this condition -- and keeping the whole gastrointestinal ( gi ) tract operating comfortably and efficiently -- is vital to overall well being . as french philosopher jean jacques rousseau put it , " happiness : a good bank account , a good cook and a good digestion . "  unfortunately , too many americans are taking a dubious shortcut to digestive health : gi medication use has jumped dramatically in recent years . one in ten americans was prescribed at least one gi medication on an outpatient basis in 2007 ( the most recent year for which figures are available ) compared to 1 in 15 in 1997 . such medications often do more harm than good -- masking imbalances that can lead to more serious conditions , and causing numerous side effects , including lower b12 levels , increased risk of fractures and even increased risk of infections .  nearly everyone has an occasional bout of indigestion . discomfort or burning in the upper abdomen usually goes away without treatment . if you avoid foods that trigger your symptoms and unlearn unhealthy habits , such as eating too much or too quickly . the following self-help tips will both relieve and prevent indigestion :  do n't eat too quickly .  eat smaller meals .  avoid late-night eating .  try to relax after meals .  avoid spicy foods if they contribute to your indigestion .  do n't smoke .  avoid or minimize intake of coffee and alcoholic beverages .  keep a food diary to help identify items that trigger indigestion .  if these prove insufficient , spend more time considering the cause of your problem . your digestive system mirrors your state of mind , which is why so many digestive disorders are stress-related . pay attention to your emotions as well as your eating habits . once you figure out exactly what 's triggering your pain , you 'll need to make lifestyle changes that may include relaxation exercises , yoga or meditation . here are some other remedies you can try :  drink peppermint tea much . ( however , it may worsen esophageal reflux by relaxing the sphincter where the esophagus joins the stomach . chamomile tea is an alternative . )  probiotics are products containing the helpful bacteria ( usually lactobacilli or bifidobacteria ) that normally inhabit the human digestive tract . most of these " friendly " bacteria occur naturally in cultured milk products , such as yogurt with active cultures or acidophilus milk . look for brands containing bacillus coagulans ( bc-30 ) or lactobacillus gg in liquid or capsule form . the usual dose is based on number of colony forming units , or cfu , and is typically in the range of 10-20 billion cfu . probiotics are also an effective treatment for viral and antibiotic-associated diarrhea in children , inflammatory bowel disease , lactose intolerance , irritable bowel syndrome , vaginal yeast infections , food allergies , eczema and recurrent c. difficile infection .  experiment with plant-derived digestive enzymes that can help you process foods .  artichoke-leaf extract may help with indigestion by increasing bile flow needed to digest fats . choose products that are standardized deglycyrrhizinated licorice ( dgl ) is licorice devoid of glycyrrhizin , a compound that can raise blood pressure . it protects the lining of the stomach and esophagus from irritation by acid and is much safer than acid-suppressive drugs . take two tablets chewed slowly 15 minutes before meals and at bedtime , or take one-half teaspoon of dgl powder at those times . allow the extract to dissolve in the mouth and slowly trickle down the throat . you can take dgl as long as you have symptoms .  finally , be aware that the common lower gi disorder known as " irritable bowel syndrome " or ibs is now being portrayed in pharmaceutical company advertisements as a disease requiring drug treatment . " what for many people is a mild functional disorder -- requiring little more than reassurance about its benign natural course -- is currently being reframed as a serious disease attracting a label and a drug , with all the associated harms and costs , " concluded an article by australian researchers titled , " selling sickness : the pharmaceutical industry and disease mongering , " british medical journal .  ibs often resolves with lifestyle changes and mind/body interventions , but it is a real condition . if the diarrhea , stomach pain or other symptoms become chronic - meaning that they have persisted for more than four weeks , or if they have become steadily worse in character - consult with your primary health care provider .