UN study reveals state of world's fisheries: Greenpeace has the ...
http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/news/Blogs/makingwaves/un-study-reveals-state-of-worlds-fisheries-gr/blog/32762/

un study reveals state of world 's fisheries : greenpeace has the solution  yesterday , at an obscure united nations meeting , some distressing news came from a gathering of policy-makers , scientists and diplomats in rome . the food and agricultural organisation is convening in italy and yesterday put forward their most recent state of the world 's fisheries and aquaculture report . unfortunately , the state of the world 's fisheries is pretty dismal .  in just ten years , the global trade in fish and fish products has nearly doubled in value . more than half ( 55% ) of fish product exports come from developing nations and are bound for plates in rich countries .  the proportion of fish stocks estimated to be healthy has declined from 40 percent in the mid-1970s to 15 percent in 2008 .  at the same time , the proportion of fish stocks that are in trouble increased from 10 percent in 1974 to 32 percent in 2008 .  the global demand for seafood is only going to increase , which is why and can continue to sustain life on earth and feed the world 's people .  this fao report confirms what we 've known to be true for years : that we 're simply running out of fish and that our oceans are already becoming exhausted . but- there is a way out ! there is an answer ! oceans-saving marine reserves !  greenpeace 's proposed network of marine reserves covering 40% of the world 's oceans- the vision that can rescue our world 's seas .  urgent action is needed to save the world 's oceans from collapse : to manage our oceans for the billions of people dependent on them for food , and the creation of a global network of marine reserves covering 40% of the world 's oceans . governments must act now , by ending overfishing and illegal fishing , and by creating living oceans for the world 's people , for generations to come , and not just for the industrial fishing interests .  some try and put forward aquaculture as the solution to the oceans crisis . however , the real reforming the fishing and aquaculture industries and implementing a global network of marine reserves : both of which can restore fish populations and our oceans back to health . fishing operations and communities alike in the developing world -- not just the rich countries ' fishing industries - must be ensured access to fish for survival .  steve smith works in the communications department at greenpeace international , based in amsterdam .  post a comment  optional : sign in now and avoid filling in forms ! not registered ? sign up here or login via facebook or google .  ( unregistered ) nayan14 says :  me and my colleagues authored one of india 's most extensive reports on aquaculture . fisheries &amp; marine biotechnology in india . drop me a mail if y ...  me and my colleagues authored one of india 's most extensive reports on aquaculture . fisheries &amp; marine biotechnology in india . drop me a mail if you are interested in a copy . my email is .  some of the topics we included are :  - market trends players . -etc . we interviewed over 400 individuals and firms to collect the data in what we believe is one of the most detailed study on the subject in india .