'Green' Cities Are Organizing to Protect the Environment
http://learningenglish.voanews.com/content/green-cities-are-organizing-to-protect-the-environment-115073839/116795.html

related articles  shirley griffith : and i 'm shirley griffith with explorations in voa special english . today we explore ways in which local governments around the world are working to protect the environment .  these " green cities " are working to reduce energy use and pollution in inventive and effective ways . such efforts by city governments not only help reverse the effects of climate change . they also help governments save large amounts of money on energy costs . and , cities that are leaders in this green movement set a good example to their citizens about the importance of environmental issues .  ( music )  steve ember : the kyoto protocol is an international agreement aimed at reducing the release of harmful gases believed to cause climate change . the united states is not part of the agreement . but since two thousand five , more than one thousand mayors across the country have agreed to sign their own version of the protocol .  it is called the united states conference of mayors ' climate protection agreement . kyoto protocol in their communities . they have also agreed to urge state and federal governments to follow these suggestions . one goal is to reduce air pollution to nineteen ninety levels by two thousand twelve .  a " green " city might work on several kinds of environmental goals and programs . these include air quality , reducing electricity use , green building , public health , the reuse of materials , water quality and clean transportation .  shirley griffith : the natural resources defense council works to protect the environment through activism , law and science . one of its online projects is called smarter cities . this web site gives a list of cities that have made important environmental steps . its two thousand ten list includes twenty-two cities that have supported investing in green power and reducing energy use . the list is divided into large , medium and small cities .  steve ember : boston , massachusetts was second on the big city list . it is the largest city buyer of wind power in new england . it is also using its small wind turbines at logan international airport . and there are other wind projects around the city .  shirley griffith : austin , texas leads the large city list , while chicago , illinois is third . both cities have made big efforts to reduce a problem called urban heat islands . an urban heat island is a city area that is warmer than its surrounding rural area . this is caused by several things , such as dark colored roofs which absorb heat from the sun during the daytime , and release that heat at night . air conditioners cooling the inside of buildings add to the increased temperatures by generating hot air outdoors .  austin has launched an urban heat island mitigation project to improve the situation . the city is planting more trees . and it is rewarding businesses and individuals who have reflective roofs . this kind of surface absorbs less heat .  steve ember : chicago has long been interested in green roofs . in two thousand , city officials decided to replace the black tar roof on the city government building with costs , improve air quality and control the amount of rainwater entering the city 's waste system . green roofs also help reduce urban heat islands .  during hot weather , the building 's tar roof could reach temperatures of up to seventy-six degrees celsius .  with the garden , the temperature of the roof area was reduced by at least thirty degrees celsius . chicago has since created over three hundred thousand square meters of green roofs .  shirley griffith : washington , d.c. is also a leading city for green roofs , with over ninety two thousand square meters of green rooftops . the city also launched a program called " skip the bag , save the river . " stores charge people a five cent tax for using plastic or paper shopping bags instead of reusable bags . money from the tax will be used to clean up a local river .  new york city is using water as a renewable energy source . for several years , the city has experimented with using waves in the east river to create energy . officials place thirty river turbine devices .  ( music )  steve ember : the people of portland , oregon are among the top recyclers in the nation . people living there recycle over half of the waste they throw out . the city has also worked to provide green transportation by providing safe bike paths and free parking spaces where electric cars can recharge .  in oakland , california , you can ride on one of several public hydrogen-powered buses . these buses release zero pollution into the air . however , they cost about five times more than common buses .  shirley griffith : cost is also a major issue in creating green buildings and systems . green building materials and systems usually cost more money than normal ones . however , homeowners are increasingly willing to pay more money to have lower energy costs in the future . and , builders are offering more green building methods and products as they become more important to buyers .  many cities offer money for homeowners who put in place green technologies such as solar power systems . homeowners .  investors are also taking a big interest in the growing importance of clean technologies . the cleantech group researches the clean energy industry . it said that north american companies in two thousand ten raised over five billion dollars for investment in clean technologies . this is an increase of forty-five percent from two thousand nine .  ( music )  steve ember : the united states green building council is changing the way people build in cities . this nonprofit organization has a rating system for making environmentally safe public and private buildings . it is called leadership in energy and environmental design , or leed . many cities now require that new buildings be built according to leed environmental requirements .  leed is not the only rating system for green buildings . for example , the national association of homebuilders has its own set of rules . and , the united states environmental protection agency and department of energy joined to create the energy star program .  shirley griffith : energy star gives ratings to devices for the home based on how they to make changes to their houses to use energy effectively . energy star estimates that in two thousand nine it helped americans avoid the release of harmful gases equal to what thirty million cars would produce . and , it says americans saved seventeen billion dollars on energy costs .  steve ember : one small town in kansas is about as green as its name . in may of two thousand seven , a tornado windstorm destroyed most of the town of greensburg , kansas . the town decided to rebuild in a better way , using green methods .  greensburg officials decided that all public building projects would follow leed top-level requirements . for example , the 5.4.7 . arts center is completely powered by energy from the wind and sun . it was named after the date the tornado struck . the television station planet green aired a program on the town called " greensburg . " over three seasons , the show told about the town , its people , and the green building efforts .  ( music )  shirley griffith : the united the masdar city project . its aim is to be the greenest city in the world . the city will meet environmental rules set by the world wide fund for nature 's one living planet and the company bioregional . masdar city is about seventeen kilometers from the capital , abu dhabi . the goal for masdar city was to produce no waste , no carbon pollution and contain only electric cars . the city is to create renewable energy from the wind , sun and other technologies .  however , economic troubles have slowed the project . the city was expected to be completed by twenty sixteen . but officials now say the city will be completed in stages . and , the city will not at first be completely carbon-neutral .  one important part of the city is masdar institute . this research university is being developed in partnership with the massachusetts institute of technology in cambridge , massachusetts . the goal of the university is to make the united arab emirates a leader in renewable energy technologies . experts say developments like this may lead to  ( music )  steve ember : this program was written and produced by dana demange . i 'm steve ember.