TV Tonight: Traffic Light
http://entertainment.time.com/2011/02/08/tv-tonight-traffic-light/

tv tonight : traffic light  in showtime 's comedy episodes , a pair of british sitcom producers have lunch with matt leblanc , who 's considering starring in a remake of their comedy about a headmaster at a boys ' school . leblanc notes that it sounds like the history boys , and the more the couple try to explain the differences , the more it does in fact sound like that play . " so , " leblanc says : " it 's history boys meets you saying it 's not history boys . "  traffic light , a new sitcom debuting tonight on fox , is perfect couples and better with you meets fox saying it 's not perfect couples or better with you . but in this case that 's not entirely bad .  the more you get into the details , the more similar it sounds , to those shows -- which themselves are essentially the modern family formula applied to relationships -- and to the philosophy of almost every recent network sitcom about couples . there are three couples stages of development . mike ( david denman of the office ) and lisa ( liza lapira ) are married with a young son . adam ( nelson franklin ) and callie ( aya cash ) have just moved in together , a leap in commitment that is causing adam no little stress . and ethan ( kris marshall ) is a horndog bachelor who goes from relationship to intense , short-lived relationship .  why traffic light ? each of the guys , see , is at a different " light " in his life . ethan has the green light , because he 's single . ( lest you miss the metaphor , he drives an ambulance . ) adam is slowing down at a yellow , i.e. , a marriage-like commitment . and mike , of course , is at red . because he 's been stopped . by a girl .  on paper , it sounds like another sitcom dedicated to the tired idea that relationships are forced on men like collars on dogs , the leashes held by annoying , fun-killing women . and yet i am describing it . partly that 's because the show , over the course of the episodes , reveals that it does n't really sign on to this high-concept premise : each of the relationships has stress and conflicts -- or else there would be no show . but it quickly becomes apparent that these men ( mike and adam , anyway ) really like being paired up , that their significant others are partners and interesting people in their own right , and that , like men in real life , they 're in relationships because they want to be .  maybe more important , traffic light gets the relationships among its different subunits better than perfect couples . one of my issues with that nbc sitcom is that -- family connections aside -- the characters seem so annoying , to each other and the audience , that it 's not clear why they would want to spend this much time with each other in the first place . traffic light does n't push its characters to extremes ( ethan being the possible exception , and the weakest characters actually like one another . and the show has a loose , dry humor that franklin , in particular , pulls off well .  the show hardly seems like the rethinking of its form that modern family was for family sitcoms . for instance , there are way too many gags involving conferenced-in cellphone conversations in cars , which is quick becoming tv 's biggest clich ? . but after the four episodes i 've seen , traffic light is perfect couples and better with you meets perfect couples and better with you being funnier . that 's a start .