Lack of historic knowledge, infrastructure among obstacles facing ...
http://www.islandpacket.com/news/local/article33407487.html

trees shade a path out to an observation deck tuesday afternoon near mitchelville beach on hilton head island . plans are being discussed to turn the area into a memorial park to commemorate the former mitchelville , the first freed men 's village in the united states . sarah welliver/ the island packet  the mitchelville preservation project held the first of a two-day strategic planning session tuesday on development of a planned park commemorating the nation 's first freedmen 's village .  board members discussed ways to leverage political support , community engagement and " prime " location to overcome the need for funding in a down economy against competing community needs , including finding a title sponsor for the heritage golf tournament .  more than 30 people from the nonprofit 's board of directors and advisors gathered at the hilton head island-bluffton chamber of commerce to discuss goals and objectives for moving forward .  " the implications of this project are enormous , " said susan thomas , vice president of the chamber 's visitor and convention bureau . " this is -- a beacon of freedom . "  at the same time , need for staff and lack of knowledge of mitchelville 's historical significance beyond hilton head and south carolina present large obstacles .  " most people think hilton head was founded in the 1950s by ( sea pines founder ) charles fraser , " said board member heather rath .  infrastructure is also an issue .  " there are unpaved road around mitchelville . we have to begin to put in the necessary infrastructure so people will feel comfortable going in to necessary areas , " said david white , an advisor to the board .  chairman thomas barnwell , jr . said such frank discussion is needed to lay out a workable plan for seeing the project to fruition , and is confident many of the issues will be addressed .  the hilton head island town council agreed in september to lease 15 acres of town-owned land at fish haul creek park to develop the mitchelville project , contingent on a plan showing the preservation group 's financial ability to build and maintain $1 a year for 99 years , an arrangement similar to one between the town and the coastal discovery museum at honey horn .  town council also awarded the preservation group $35,000 in bed tax money to help defray start-up costs . the group has established a beginning budget of $89,000 for salaries , consultant fees , rent , office operations , advertising , training and maintaining a new website .  another estimated $60,000 to $80,000 is needed to complete an ecological and archeological survey . board members said they hope to begin that process within the next two months .  " that is a key first step we need to accomplish before anything else can happen ; before we can move forward with architectural and site plans , " said board member ezra callahan . " that is going to require fundraising . we are moving ahead , but to continue that momentum , we need financial support . "  the group has more than $50,000 , including a grant of $10,000 from the community foundation of the lowcountry , with a promise of $27,000 more , if matched .  cost to develop the first phase of the park on town-owned land is estimated at $4.5 million . construction would hopefully start in june 2012 and last a year , callahan said .  mitchelville was created for freed slaves in 1862 , before the emancipation proclamation in 1863 and a year after union ships drove confederate troops from hilton head island .