Gadgets for the ghosthunter
http://www.gizmag.com/ghosthunting-gadgets/18113/

gadgets for the ghosthunter  in a survey conducted by cbs news in 2005 , it was found that 48 percent of americans believed in ghosts . other surveys have put the number at anywhere from around 20 to over 50 percent . while such figures certainly do n't imply that ghosts are real , they do suggest that belief in them is relatively common . when someone does suspect that a ghost is present in their home or business , they will sometimes call in " experts " to ascertain if that is , in fact , the case ... and what sort of gear do these ghost hunters use to detect said spirits ? we decided to find out .  given that ghosts are frequently thought of as non-physical beings that can only be seen by people like jennifer love hewitt or haley joel osment , one might wonder how regular human technology could possibly register their presence . we 're told that it all comes down to what people are made of .  " we 're built out of energy -- atoms the nonprofit paranormal explorers ghost-hunting group , which operates out of edmonton , canada . " i just think it 's an internal piece of us that stays when our bodies deteriorate . "  " when somebody dies , do they go into another dimension , with a very thin wall ? " asks her partner , ben myckan . " i think that 's sort of what it is . you ca n't destroy energy , it 's just in a different dimension . "  so apparently , it 's not so much about looking for lost souls as it is looking for unexplained energy , or evidence of its manipulation .  emf meter  when it comes to detecting energy , an electromagnetic field meter is definitely a good tool to have . " at a haunted location , erratic and fluctuating emf levels are likely to occur , " says alexandra woodfield , of uk-based paranormal gear retailer tomsgadgets . " out of all the paranormal tools , the emf meter is an excellent introduction to ghost detecting . although currently there is no device the emf meter is the closest tool on the market . "  rona and ben use their emf meters partially to identify man-made electrical fields within buildings , as some researchers have suggested that supposed ghost sightings could be caused by such fields interacting with the human brain . the couple are also interested in detecting emfs in places where no electrical features are present , however , as those could be caused by ... well , you know .  thermometer  anderson tells us that ghosts both gather energy from rooms and release it into them , causing highly localized drops or rises in temperatures -- hence the " cold spots " you might have heard mentioned in horror movies . a good thermometer will confirm that such perceived changes are n't just due to heebie-jeebies on the part of the observer , and will document exactly how large the changes are . " it has to be at least a ten-degree drop before we think , ' oh , well maybe something 's happening in this room ' , " she explains .  besides a regular point-and-shoot model , that can instantly obtain temperature readings from any point that it 's aimed at within a room .  digital audio recorder  ghosts supposedly do sometimes want to talk to us , but not in a way that 's easy to understand in real time with the unaided human ear . proponents of electric voice phenomenon ( evp ) tell us that if you record the room noise while asking questions aloud to the ghost , although you may hear nothing in response at the time , you 'll be able to make out some replies when you play back the audio file . if you 've heard evp on any of the numerous paranormal reality tv shows , however , then you will know that a lot of those " replies " can be pretty faint and ambiguous .  having to pick out the ghost 's end of a conversation after the fact kind of limits what you can talk about , but a new product offers a way around that limitation . connecticut 's das distribution makes a gizmo called the rt-evp , which back on a time delay -- that delay can be from 1 to 60 seconds , as set by the user . if you were to set the delay for five seconds , for instance , you would ask a question , then hear a recording of yourself asking the question , followed by an ongoing playback of whatever audio the device recorded in the room just five seconds ago .  because it can pick up sounds down to 15hz , which is below the threshold of human hearing , it can indeed " hear " things that we ca n't ... possibly even the voices of lost loved ones , according to product designer and das president gary galka . " since the completion of the rt-evp instrument , we have received three beautiful etheral messages from our daughter melissa , " he tells us .  ghost box  while evp can allegedly be found in ambient sound , it 's said to be easier for ghosts to work their voice messages into white noise , which is where something called the ghost box or spirit box comes , supposedly allowing ghosts to use stray bits of static , squeal and other noise to form and/or carry their messages . the rt-evp , in fact , has a " frequency sweep " feature that lets it operate as a ghost box .  for her part , anderson believes that ghost boxes have their place , but ca n't be relied upon . this is due to the simple fact that what is being heard could very likely just be distant radio broadcasts . " the only way you know is probably what they 're saying , " she says . " if they say ' help me , ' or ' my name is joan , ' you 're going , ok well that does n't sound like a radio station . "  a somewhat similar device is the ovilus . it takes temperature and emf readings , combines those readings into one number , chooses a word from an onboard database that matches up with that number , and then " speaks " the word aloud . the idea is that a ghost , knowing this will purposely make changes to the temperature and emfs so that it can communicate through the ovilus . should you not want to shell out for the device itself , though , you can always download the iovilus app to your iphone . just do n't believe everything it tells you ...  the ovilus " works " on the same principle as ouija boards , which many ghost-hunters steer clear of , as they are said to open up portals that anyone or anything could come through . " you 're not necessarily going to get who you think you 're going to get , " says anderson , of the boards . " we 've had people who have called us to come and do an investigation because they 've used a ouija board and someone 's dropped in and has n't left . "  in other words , go ahead and download iovilus , but do n't blame us if you end up getting sucked into your tv .  motion detector or beam barrier alarm  " these are also used for security by creating an woodfield . " paranormal activity can trigger these beams and set off an alarm . of course it is important to set up a digital video camera to eliminate tampering from other people or animals . "  rona and ben also use a trail master camera trap , in which a motion detector is wired directly to a digital still camera , which snaps a shot whenever the detector is tripped . the setup is commonly used in the wilderness by wildlife photographers , or even cryptozoologists looking for bigfoot ... but that 's another article .  infrared wireless cameras  when it comes to digital video cameras , paranormal explorers and most other groups use the infrared variety , running several of them into a split-screen display on a laptop . that way , they can show the client what their eyes might be missing , and make a dvd copy of the footage for them . just what might that footage show ?  " sometimes you might just see something floating around , " says myckan . " you might see just a ball of light an ectoplasm , and it might be in the shape of something . "  " usually , when people watch it on tv , they really seem to have an epiphany , and they seem to be not frightened anymore , " adds anderson .  digital still cameras are also considered essential gear , both for showing up things that us humans ca n't see ( such as in paranormal explorers ' shot below , possibly ) , and simply for documenting locations where investigations are carried out .  it could be that one of the most useful things to have , however , is simply good " ghost sense . "  " when we go into a house that is supposed to be plagued by stuff , i do rely on my intuition , " says anderson . " usually i can pick up right away if there are spirits . "  so , is it possible that any of these instruments -- or even the human subconscious -- could be detecting anything from the great beyond ? we look forward to receiving your comments " do n't cross the streams . "  advertisement  about the author  an experienced freelance writer , videographer and television producer , ben 's interest in all forms of innovation is particularly fanatical when it comes to human-powered transportation , film-making gear , environmentally-friendly technologies and anything that 's designed to go underwater . he lives in edmonton , alberta , where he spends a lot of time going over the handlebars of his mountain bike , hanging out in off-leash parks , and wishing the pacific ocean was n't so far away .  there are no " ghost " outside of ones imagination , but there is something to be aware of . it is true " you ca n't destroy energy " - that is why when we die our life force goes out with our last breath and we return to the dust or elements we are made with . when we are cremated , we still end up as ashes or elements . the invisible realm does have living and powerful wicked spirit forces which take delight in misleading mankind . why are ever be destroyed ? the answers are easy to find . and peace of mind and a happy future is your reward by searching for the truth .  donwine24th march , 2011 @ 6:45 a.m . ( california time )  @gizmag , this article is an incredible disappointment . i was really hoping that you 'd tear into these gadgets and expose them as the snake oil they are . for a media organization that loves all the techie details of things , i ca n't believe you accepted the legitimacy of this crap at face value without even asking twice how it worked . the people selling these " tools " are scam artists of the highest degree , and you are doing nothing except helping them scam more innocent , ignorant people .  chrismc24th march , 2011 @ 10:03 a.m . ( california time )  i would hope that the population demographic that takes the time to read this website would be smart enough to realize how absurd all of these gadgets are .  every single one those useless gadgets was created based on . the creators fail to realize no one knows anything about ghosts ( because they do n't exists ) , therefor making tools based on what you think they are , usually based on traditional folklore , is silly and a waste of time . starting from square one , considering no one knows anything about them , is the only rational option .  and if anyone thinks they do know anything about ghosts , or that they have proved they exist , please contact james randi . he has a million big ones waiting for you .  therationalprophecy24th march , 2011 @ 10:33 a.m . ( california time )  what is going on in the american education system these days ? ? ? over 40% of americans think that the theory of evolution is false when it 's an established fact ! and now almost half of them believe in ghosts ? these guys are supposed to be world leaders but almost half of them are .... what 's the word i 'm looking for ?  warren52nz24th march , 2011 @ 2:38 p.m . ( california &amp; matter . so are all living organisms . does that prove a one celled organism has a soul ? or that a soul exists ? or that it is eternal ? no , no , and no . as tesla proved , energy is everywhere . is it conscious ? does it communicate ? no ! the burden of proof is on the ghost busters . a burden not met .  the proper response to ridiculous claims based on pseudo explanations is laughter , not a suspension of reason and a pretend scientific report . we have plenty of real mysteries that are infinitely more interesting and entertaining .  voluntaryist24th march , 2011 @ 3:08 p.m . ( california time )  i liked the article because it shows the gadgets , and how they sell them . the interesting thing is i find those gadgets very useful per se ...  cachurro24th march , 2011 @ 6 p.m . ( california time )  @ warren52nz : the theory of evolution is not the established fact of evolution it 's a theory . darwin observed one species one species has never been observed giving birth to any other species . if you believe man evolved from apes , why do we still have apes ?  check out anything from kent hovind ( on youtube ) . he 's a weird geeky guy that has a dry sense of humor but has a lot of good information .  facebook user25th march , 2011 @ 4:06 a.m . ( california time )  warren52nz just a quick fyi it 's still referred to as the the theory of evolution not the fact of evolution . i 'm just say'n ...... : - )  mrhuckfin25th march , 2011 @ 4:28 a.m . ( california time )  this is really scary stuff . i 'm naturally not afraid of the ghosts but the us citicens . their votes generate a president with control over the most powerful military organisation in the world .  conny s ? re25th march , 2011 @ 8:08 a.m . ( california time )  omfg ! you people with these denigrating and ignorant comments ! 1 ) it 's a great article and work great for their intended application . 3 ) none of you can disprove the existence of ghosts . 4 ) none of you are experts in any field related to the use of these instruments . 5 ) ghost are real . not only have i seen many personally , but also have been involved in several scientific studies/experiments ( some will be published soon ) . 6 ) nobody made any " claims " about these products - merely the observation that these items may and are being used for such applications as ' ghost hunting ' 7 ) tesla did not disprove the existence of ghosts - in fact .... his theories point toward their existence . 8 ) you 're dumb . ... and senselessly mean .  grant garrison25th march , 2011 @ 10:03 a.m . ( california time )  i ca n't believe the comments posted here .  therationalprophecy- " every single one those useless gadgets was created based on ridiculous assumptions about the supposed behavior and compositions of ghosts . "  lets take a look at these useless gadgets . electromagnetic fields , not ghosts . this meter has been around for a long time and is used in not only for people in the job field where one would deal with electricity , but also in the scientific field for research . they are also very useful for finding out if any of the electronic devices in you home have a high electromagnetic field . high electromagnetic fields could be harmful .  the thermometer : really ? you did not know that this was invented for reading temperatures ? not to mention that it is used on a daily basis by practically everyone ? especially doctors and hospitals .  the digital audio recorder : also has been around for a long time . it was created as a portable device for recording audio . its very common for journalists and college students to use this .  motion detector : these were created for security purposes . and used on a daily bases for home security against would be thieves and murderers .  infrared wireless cameras : same as above .  digital cameras : i am no ! ! ! even the cell phone companies are in the ghost snake oil industry ! " oh wait . the digital camera is just the next generation of camera . invented for taking pictures of people , places and things .  the ghost box : this is the only one invented for the intentions of hearing ghosts . and if you have ever come across one they are clearly marked that it is for entertainment purposes only . as was ( and still is ) the ouija board .  the other comments on here are not much better . i am very surprised that people who would read gizmag would not know of the existence of a thermometer for purposes other then ghost hunting . truly amazing .  for those who have a fascination with what are commonly referred to as " ghost " - i have a question . it is easy to establish that creatures do exist in the invisible realm , so i will not try to discredit that . however , the same people who believe in them have no idea about . can anyone name a single contribution or benefit these wicket spirit forces have done to benefit mankind ? put your beliefs to the test and you will see that they deal in the unknown , tragedies , dead , spells , mystery , fatalism and will do anything to misled mankind . their biggest weapon is to fool people into believing they do not exists . what gadgets can combat that ?  donwine25th march , 2011 @ 6:08 p.m . ( california time )  actually , ' ghosts ' or spirit surviving death , has been proven under laboratory conditions . see the writings of gary schwartz , " life after death "  it was a very short time ago that a few visionaries were laughed at for proposing the existence of all sorts of things now known to be fact ; germs or virii , for instance . you certainly ca n't see them without a specific piece of equipment . doubters should keep in mind that human knowledge is always advancing , and we 're still in the infancy of technological possibilities . it 's human condition ; the rest impede progress .  signalfire27th march , 2011 @ 9:20 p.m . ( california time )  nowadays , modern technology has given ghost hunters a wide range of equipment which is available to assist in their investigations . tool kits of the ghost hunter from yesteryear often consisted solely of a notebook and pen , polaroid camera , compass , candles , rolls of tape , and bits of string and wire . common tools include :