Celebrity Real Estate
http://curbed.com/archives/2011/03/23/the-many-homes-of-silver-screen-star-elizabeth-tayor.php

get the latest from curbed  facebook  email newsletter  twitter  elizabeth taylor , one of hollywood 's all-time greats , passed away early this morning in los angeles after a career that spanned more than six decades , earned her two academy awards , and cemented her legacy as one of america 's most beloved entertainers . a serial spouse who famously married seven men , taylor bounced between properties with similar whimsy . born in 1932 to american expat parents in north london , she spent the first years of her life in the united kingdom at heathwood house , the family home ( above ) . the 5,092-square-foot brick georgian , built in 1926 , featured six bedrooms , three bathrooms , and expansive gardens tended by elizabeth 's mother , sara taylor . in 2008 , the home came to market for over $10m and quickly sold . despite her british upbringing , it was n't until she came to america in 1940 that her many love affairs with real estate were kindled .  ? taylor lived briefly at the . they were married for less than a year before divorcing , which is when taylor moved out on her own , to an apartment block at 1060 wilshire boulevard in l.a. that 's now been replaced with new construction . her downstairs neighbors in the building were star couple janet leigh and tony curtis .  ? once married , taylor and second husband michael wilding began a haphazard house hunt that involved purchasing a beverly hills home in the summer of 1952 for $75k -- $600k in today 's dollars -- and spending another $40k sprucing it up , before abandoning the house two years later for the comfort of an even more opulent home at 1375 beverly estate drive(above) . she and wilding decided to buy after scaling the fence surrounding the property for an impromptu open house . as luck would have it , architect george maclean had designed the home with taylor in mind .  ? after taylor divorced wilding in 1957 , she took up with film producer mike todd . todd tragically died in a private plane crash the following year , but 's 715 park avenue(above) . the building , set on the southeast corner of 70th street and park avenue , was built in 1948 . the apartment -- which , according to the brokerage corcoran , once also served as the home of lifestyles of the rich and famous host robin leach -- features two bedrooms and a 775-square-foot terrace that probably served as a garden for green thumb taylor .  photo : reportair ? taylor went on to marry mike todd 's best friend , crooner eddie fisher . fisher and taylor soon purchased a getaway in the swiss mountain town of gstaad , which was becoming increasingly popular with jet-setters in the 60s . taylor entertained a slew of stars at chalet ariel , including julie andrews , peter sellers , robert wagner , natalie wood , and roger moore , and retained ownership of the property after divorcing fisher in 1964 .  ? taylor was enamored with the snows of the swiss alps , but that did n't keep her from sunning herself on occasion . for those purposes , she and fifth husband richard burton in puerto vallarta , mexico . joined by a bridge modeled after the bridge of sighs in venice ( above ) , the residences were operated as a bed-and-breakfast , after taylor sold the property in 1990 , before it fell into disrepair .  photo : dbking/flickr ? in 1976 , taylor fell in love with virginia politician john warner and shacked up with him at his 2,700-acre atoka farm and his georgetown pied-a-terre , a lavish red brick georgian ( above ) near the famous dumbarton oaks estate . warner 's long hours as a u.s. senator led to their divorce in 1982 , and taylor soon moved back to the west coast .  ? since the early ' 80s , taylor had been living in this stealthy two-story in bel air , calif . shrouded in trees and located at the end of a long driveway , the private home looks to be a fitting getaway for the aging starlet . her bedroom occupied the entire second floor of the house , which is reportedly furnished with 18th-century antiques , aubusson carpets , and an impressive collection @ @ @ @