Detroit loses a staggering 25% of its population in a decade
http://www.cnn.com/2011/US/03/22/michigan.detroit.population/

( cnn ) -- detroit could probably use another eminem boost following tuesday 's news that it lost 25% of its residents from 2000 to 2010 .  you may remember the catchy chrysler ad during january 's super bowl .  to the sounds of a jangly guitar , the rapper drives through the city 's gritty streets , telling the viewer , " this is the motor city and this is what we do . "  the spot ends with " imported from detroit , " a message that may have a new meaning , given the latest census numbers .  according to the u.s. census bureau , detroit saw its population drop from 951,270 in 2000 to 713,777 last year -- its lowest since the 1910 census .  that tells only part of a classic rise and fall of a city that lost residents to the suburbs and the dramatic decline of the auto industry .  buoyed by industrialization and henry ford and other entrepreneurs , detroit 's population skyrocketed at the dawn of the 20th century .  detroit detroit schools  2010 : a ' green ' makeover for detroit  home to 285,704 people in 1900 , the michigan city enjoyed a peak of 1.85 million residents in 1950 . detroit once was the fourth-largest city in the country .  tuesday 's news was a double blow to michigan , which learned in december it was the only state to have a cumulative population loss in the decade .  the state 's population fell 0.6% -- from 9.94 million to 9.89 million -- costing the state yet another congressional district . at its peak , after the 1960 census , michigan had 19 seats in the u.s. house of representatives , according to the u.s. census bureau . the state 's capitol hill clout has eroded , one or two seats a decade , since 1980 . now , it 's down to just 14 .  detroit leaders said tuesday the census figures were not accurate .  " i do n't believe it will stand up " to the city 's planned challenge , said mayor dave bing , saying the census has a we are in a fiscal crisis and we have to fight for every dollar , " bing said .  if another 40,000 residents are verified , detroit would meet the 750,000 threshold for ideal federal and state funding , bing said .  detroit city council president charles pugh told cnn affiliate widv the census figure is about 100,000 short .  " that 's clearly less money from the state and clearly less money from the government if we fall below certain thresholds , " pugh said .  bing told reporters he is committed to help create new jobs and reduce crime .  michigan governor rick snyder said " figures clearly show how crucial it is to reinvent michigan . "  " we can not cling to the old ways of doing business , " snyder said in a statement tuesday . " michigan will not succeed if detroit and other major cities do n't succeed .  " losing our best and brightest young adults to other states , or failing to rejuvenate our urban areas , are not acceptable options , " snyder continued that by working together with relentless positive action . "  the state is working to stem the losses . the detroit region aerotropolis development corporation , for example , is hoping to tie business development to airports in the region .