Lowe's Bringing Solar Power to More People (with Help of Sungevity)
http://cleantechnica.com/2011/05/18/lowes-bringing-solar-power-to-the-public-with-help-of-sungevity/

Lowe 's Bringing Solar Power to More People ( with Help of Sungevity )  Solar energy leader Sungevity announced this week that it was partnering with Lowe 's , " the world 's second largest home improvement retailer , " to help bring solar power to the masses . While solar power is pretty easy to get at a good rate these days , having major retailers like Lowe 's help get people on the solar train is clearly a huge win . Here 's a little more info on how Sungevity , " the nation 's fastest growing residential solar company , " and Lowe 's will be partnering up :  Through the agreement , Lowe 's will provide consumers with Sungevity 's quick , easy and proprietary iQuote , a process that utilizes satellite images and aerial photography to calculate a same-day , firm installation estimate , eliminating the need for a home visit . As part of the interactive , in-store experience , consumers will be able to view a rendering of the proposed installation and get a firm understanding of the Customers typically experience an immediate savings on their electricity bills through Sungevity 's solar lease , which includes monitoring , maintenance , repairs , insurance , and a money-back performance guarantee . Additionally , as part of the agreement , Lowe 's has taken an equity position in Sungevity .  Sounds like a pretty huge deal , eh ? Bringing affordable solar options to people in a way they are used to and can easily take advantage of ... this is some of the biggest news of the week , in my opinion .  And , of course , Sungevity is happy .  " I am thrilled about the potential of reaching Lowe 's 15 million weekly customers at their more than 1,750 retail locations , with Sungevity 's services , " said Andrew Birch , chief executive officer , Sungevity . " This partnership marks a major acceleration point in our mission to make solar power easily accessible and affordable to homeowners nationwide . "  When does this partnership start ( in the stores , that is ) ? This Summer . It will only roll the moment , includes :  About the Author  Zachary Shahan is tryin ' to help society help itself ( and other species ) one letter at a time . He spends most of his time here on CleanTechnica as its director and chief editor . Otherwise , he 's probably enthusiastically fulfilling his duties as the director/editor of EV Obsession , Gas2 , Solar Love , Planetsave , or Bikocity ; or as president of Important Media . Zach is recognized globally as a solar energy , electric car , energy storage , and wind energy expert . If you would like him to speak at a related conference or event , connect with him via social media : ZacharyShahan.com , .  Ask Sungevity where they got this brilliant idea , along with their " innovative " solar lease from , and you 'll see why SolarCity is the market leader and always will be .  SolarCity partners with Home Depot , Sungevity partners with Lowe 's .  Many will try to emulate , but they can only imitate .  http : //zacharyshahan.com Zachary Shahan Let me know if/when there is any news on SolarCity along these lines and will be happy to feature it as well . Shoot the email to zach@importantmedia.org .  ( &amp; As they say , imitation is the highest form of flattery , .. or something like that -- of course , in business , it 's also trying to steal your market )  Anonymous  Everything sounds great except for the ' lease ' part .  I 'd hope the same sort of one-stop-shopping appears for people who want to own their system . Some of the lease agreements I 've read about are relatively poor deals for the homeowner .  http : //importantmedia.org Important Media Umbrella Acct  agreed ... did n't know enough about leasing options to go into that above , but have my issues with them from the little bit i 've thought about them &amp; think the option to BUY a system should definitely be in there ( hope it will be )  Ben  That iQuote software for same day quotes is the best idea I 've heard in the arial photos and satellite images might be too stale for new houses .  Wind Energy  Search the IM Network  The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only . Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by , and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media , Inc. , its owners , sponsors , affiliates , or subsidiaries .