The 10 Worst Family Films of All Time
http://www.popmatters.com/post/144008-the-10-worst-family-films-of-all-time/

The 10 Worst Family Films of All Time  In 2011 , the family film is a staple of the standard Cineplex experience . From anthropomorphic animals and objects to low brow live action lessons in caring and sharing , Hollywood can churn out the kiddie chum with shocking regularity . Every week , a new affront to taste and future therapist 's visits . Perhaps even more astonishing is the public 's -- or make that , parent 's -- lack of consideration in making choices for their wee ones . They will literally buy almost anything , just as long as it has the requisite amount of slapstick and stupidity to keep their offspring out of their hair for a while . As an ersatz babysitter , the PG to G rated entertainment has gone from being amiable to merely available . As a result , picking ten examples of cinema 's worst is a lot like shuffling CG penguins around a ritzy Manhattan apartment ... possible , but not a very pleasant experience overall .  In creating our list , we had to n't consider the animated film when compiling this list . Noxious cartoons are their own stagnant slice of Hell . Similarly , we did n't scour the shelves for knock-offs , clear copyright infringements like Ratatoing or The Little Panda Fighter , which leads to another category we tried to avoid . Bless them for their advances in style and concept , but the foreign film community can surely stink up the joint with their jaded , often harsh family fare . From the aforementioned Mr. Popper and his pooping water fowl ( in theaters now ! ) to something like Thunderpants ( about a kid gifted with the ability to fart really well ... no seriously ) , there are plenty of regular choices to choose from . In this case , we guarantee that all ten will challenge your view of viable kid vid material , as well as your will to live .  #10 : Ghost Dad ( 1990 )  In the ' 90s , comedian turned ultimate TV dad Bill Cosby was seen as capable of doing absolutely no wrong . Granted , his last but this uniformly terrible family film was -- hard to believe -- much , much worse . The tale of a workaholic widower desperate to make sure his kids are taken care of , even after a fatalistic cab rides banishes him to the afterlife , it 's a cloying combination of heart-tugging and sour slapstick . Perhaps the most shocking thing about this supernatural comedy is that Sydney Poitier was sitting the director 's chair . Horror !  #9 : Santa with Muscles ( 1996 )  Unlike many famous athletes who really have no business being up on the big screen , a wrestler like Hulk Hogan should have been a cinematic natural . After all , his entire career was built on successfully selling a grateful , gullible audience on the ' fact ' that his sport was ' real ' . However , his efforts in front of the camera , including the atrocious Mr. Nanny and Suburban Commando argued for a stilted , steroided stiff . Naturally , the next step was stupid , saccharine seasonal fare with the Hulkster playing amnesiac to a group did n't deserve this steamy , stinking bag of coal .  #8 : The Garbage Pail Kids Movie ( 1987 )  How do you celebrate a ripe kid 's fad just waiting to be translated to the silver screen ? Why , you turn the property over to a guy who 'd done little of significance since The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis and then hire has-been Anthony Newley as your leading man . In addition , waste most of your limited budget on creepy costumes which barely resemble the famed collector 's card characters and then add in a bullied human boy to really up the ick factor . Aside from the often surreal visage of little people playing oversized cartoon caricatures , the real revelation comes from the movie 's rude and crude single digit IQ messages .  #7 : Kazaam ( 1996 )  Speaking of athletes who should n't be allowed in front of craft services table ... When he abandoned Orlando for the sunny celebrity climes of LA , Shaquille O'Neal wanted to be more than an NBA superstar . Aside from an Sadly , O'Neal had all the presence of LeBron James during a decisive Game 6 . Playing a genie who wants to help an obnoxious little brat reconnect with his dad , he 's about as believable as the Miami Heat 's Big Three 's chances at multiple championships . Even the less than special effects argue for something that should have been quickly folded up and forgotten .  #6 : The Country Bears ( 2002 )  You ca n't talk about lousy family films and not send a little karmic creosote Disney 's way , right ? After all , the House of Mouse more or less invented the crappy kids movie during those depressing dog days of the 1970s ( Super Dad ? Gus ? ) . In this case , the company was trying to parlay their famed theme park rides into substantial film franchises . In the case of this moronic costumed creature feature , nothing worked . The suits looks stupid . The casting was questionable and , worse of all , the actual attraction was cast aside for more formulaic flotsam . In more nuance and acting ability than the stiffs here .  Since deciding to employ his underdeveloped muse muscles over five years ago , Bill has been a significant staff member and writer for three of the Web 's most influential websites : DVD Talk , DVD Verdict and , of course , PopMatters . He also has expanded his own web presence with Bill Gibron.com a place where he further explores creative options . It is here where you can learn of his love of Swindon 's own XTC , skim a few chapters of his terrifying tome in the making , The Big Book of Evil , and hear samples from the cassette albums he created in his college music studio , The Scream Room .