Standoff is latest in Venezuelan prisons' history of problems
http://www.cnn.com/2011/WORLD/americas/06/21/venezuela.prison.standoff/

( cnn ) -- venezuelan national guard troops have rescued some inmates from a prison where a standoff between prisoners and authorities continued tuesday , but hundreds more remain inside .  armed inmates inside the rodeo ii prison in the northern state of miranda , east of caracas , have rejected government calls to disarm since last week . according to the government , a group of about 50 inmates out of 1,000 is behind the resistance .  authorities had already raided another prison , rodeo i , and seized a number of weapons , drugs and cell phones . two troops and one inmate were killed in that raid , officials said .  on monday night , a national guard contingent rescued 36 inmates from the " mafias " that have control of rodeo ii , the state-run avn news agency reported . eleven were injured in the operation .  the operations at the rodeo prison complex come a week after a prison riot that left 22 dead . according to the inter-american commission on human rights , the riot reportedly revolved prison . the inmates allegedly attacked each other with weapons , the commission said .  details of the situation inside rodeo ii are hard to come by .  however , a video that surfaced on youtube purports to show the scene inside one of the prisons . the video , which was aired by venezuelan news outlet reportero 24 , shows what appears to be the inside of a prison filmed by one of the inmates .  the date the video was shot and the location where it was shot were not verified .  in the video , two white freezers are shown and opened . inside each , there is one body .  " we have to keep them in the freezer , so they do n't rot , " the narrator says . he describes the bodies as " two of the compatriots who have died in the fight . "  if indeed both of the deceased are from inside one of the rodeo prisons , it would increase the official death toll .  as the video pans away from the freezers narrator blames officials for firing on the inmates .  " listen ! we are not lying , " he says .  conditions in venezuelan prisons have been the subject of concern for human rights organizations for some time .  according to the inter-american commission on human rights , 476 inmates reportedly died in venezuelan prisons in 2010 and another 967 were injured . from 1999 to 2010 , a total of 4,506 inmates reportedly died and 12,518 were injured , the commission found .  as far back as 2008 , the commission had issued orders to reform and regain control of rodeo i.  in another report , the commission found that " the state has failed to adopt an effective policy to prevent violence within its detention centers " and that " venezuelan prisons are the most violent in the region . "  a recent feature by the new york times looked at the san antonio prison in porlamar , on margarita island . the rule of authority had deteriorated so much there , the paper found , that it " looks more like a "  the prisoners there run the show , one inmate told the paper .  among the problems that the commission cited were inmates ' possession of weapons , extortion of inmates , overcrowding and lack of medical care .  the inter-american commission has repeatedly recommended -- and reaffirmed after last week 's riot -- reducing the overcrowd conditions , confiscating weapons , and establishing a division between those who are being prosecuted and those who have been convicted . the commission also recommended better trained guards and better investigations into acts of violence inside the prisons .