D-Dalus - an entirely new genre of aircraft
http://www.gizmag.com/d-dalus-uav-design/18972/

d-dalus - an entirely new genre of aircraft arrives  austrian research company iat21 has presented a new type of aircraft at the paris air show which has the potential to become aviation 's first disruptive technology since the jet engine .  the d-dalus ( a play on daedalus from greek mythology ) is neither fixed wing or rotor craft and uses four , mechanically-linked , contra-rotating cylindrical turbines , each running at the same 2200 rpm , for its propulsion .  the key to the d-dalus ' extreme maneuverability is the facility to alter the angle of the blades ( using servos ) to vector the forces , meaning that the thrust can be delivered in your choice of 360 degrees around any of the three axes . hence d-dalus can launch vertically , hover perfectly still and move in any direction , and that 's just the start of the story .  like most cars and aircraft these days , it sounds very complex but it 's all controlled by computer algorithms , so it 's simple joystick control for the user .  existing rotary wing aircraft offer vtol capabilities but have vulnerabilities which make them unsuitable for many applications . they are challenged in bad weather , at long ranges , at high speed and in operating to and from lurching platforms , such as boats in rough weather .  by contrast , d-dalus is particularly suited for such conditions and can thrust upwards and hence " glue down " on landing , which it can also do on a moving vehicle . indeed , landing on a moving vehicle is one of the d-dalus ' many party tricks , and it 's a natural for landing on watercraft . not surprisingly , since it initially broke cover at the royal aeronautical society conference a few days ago , it has already attracted a lot of interest from military quarters .  the d-dalus is also near-silent , and has the dynamic stability to enter buildings and handle rough weather with ease - things which existing rotorcraft simply can not achieve . the aircraft also has a sense-and-avoid system which , in conjunction with its complete lack of vulnerable external hover in very close proximity to vertical rock faces and walls , making it suitable for search-and-rescue operations , as a surveillance drone with hover-and-stare capabilities and as a proactive tool for urban battlefield situational awareness .  the lack of vulnerable external moving parts will give a small d-dalus-type drone the ability to fly into buildings through windows , and its unique capabilities also offer 360 degree vision , another aspect lacking in traditional rotor craft which have blind spots due to the rotors , and nowhere near the same maneuverability as the d-dalus .  iat21 forsees many applications based on these key new criteria - apart from being able to enter and search buildings , it could conceivably remove radioactive contamination or explosives , extract casualties , or hold and direct water hoses for fire fighters .  as it can lift heavy loads , and becomes even more efficient in doing so as it scales upwards in size , it is also envisaged as a platform for loading and unloading ships when cranes are not available .  the d-dalus is also so simple mechanically that it an auto mechanic . it should be noted that all vtol aircraft capable of carrying large payloads are complex and very costly to maintain .  currently , tests are being conducted using a 120 bhp ktm engine and turbines around five feet long - and the capability of lifting a payload of 70 kg . more tests are planned over the coming weeks . iat21 is now also working with cranfield university in the u.k. on a larger , more powerful motor , a new hull shape for the craft , and advanced guidance and control systems .  the forces on the blade pivots are understandably huge , and in initial testing it was found that all available bearings failed , so inventor meinhard schwaiger , who already has more than 150 patents to his name , knuckled down and invented ( and patented ) his own , near-frictionless swivel-bearing to cope with the stresses .  the d-dalus is constructed of carbon fiber , and appears to be scalable for a range of potential applications including maritime search and rescue , freight transport , operating alongside and within platform include a passenger version for public transit .  advertisement  about the author  mike grew up thinking he would become a mathematician , accidentally started motorcycle racing , got a job writing road tests for a motorcycle magazine while at university , and became a writer . as a travelling photojournalist during his early career , his work was published in a dozen languages across 20+ countries . he went on to edit or manage over 50 print publications , with target audiences ranging from pensioners to plumbers , many different sports , many car and motorcycle magazines , with many more in the fields of communication - narrow subject magazines on topics such as advertising , marketing , visual communications , design , presentation and direct marketing . then came the internet and mike managed internet projects for australia 's largest multimedia company , telstra.com.au ( australia 's largest telco ) , seek.com.au ( australia 's largest employment site ) , top100.com.au , hitwise.com , and a dozen other internet start-ups before founding gizmag in 2002 . now he writes and thinks .  sounds pretty revolutionary thing actually flying soon ...  windmaster hiroaki21st june , 2011 @ 12:30 p.m . ( california time )  my first thought was that it was a vastly improved ducted relative of the spinning wing ( 1930 ) . but from the info it seems like centrifugal fans . it would be nice to have more details on the principles of flight involved . " contra-rotating cylindrical turbines " suggests it is more like the later . are we talking turbos like in cars ? seems like superchargers move more air . the 2,200 rpm sounds more like a fan and less obnoxious sounding than a turbo/supercharger . the article also does not say where the air intake is . that seems like a major omission to me . oh well , i guess we will hear more about it .  if it really is efficient , powerful , maneuverable , and easy to control , it might work in some sort of " jetpack " form . there was the scaling comment though ... so maybe not .  the actual numbers provided do not sound heavy lifting the real deal ... it looks very interesting .  i second the request for a video !  mindbreaker21st june , 2011 @ 4:53 p.m . ( california time )  someone on another site suggested it is a version of a voith schneider propeller . that seems to fit .  mindbreaker21st june , 2011 @ 5:07 p.m . ( california time )  sounds great , but i 'll believe it when i see it . i 've been burnt enough times by articles on gizmag making something sound like magic , only to come back the next week and debunk the myth .  anyone remember that new dynamic ratio gearbox that was supposed to radically change the automotive industry forever ? no ? that 's because it turned out to be over-hyped crap .  facebook user21st june , 2011 @ 5:44 p.m . ( california time )  excellent points mindbreaker . and in retrospect , exciting as this is it lacks the helicopter 's ability to autorotate and glide from engine failure . not that it should not still be persued however . voith 6:04 p.m . ( california time )  this would be how ' alien ' space ships move about wouldnt it ? ? ?  facebook user21st june , 2011 @ 6:38 p.m . ( california time )  amost silent ? i find that hard to believe . anyone knows that air moving at high velocities and volumes make shitloads of noise regardless of how its created . nontheless it sounds like something worth following to see how it developes .  terry penrose21st june , 2011 @ 7:51 p.m . ( california time )  waiting to see a video , but the technology sounds incredible .  alan hutcheson21st june , 2011 @ 7:52 p.m . ( california time )  come on . how hard is it to post a video if it 's legit ?  looks bad without one .  adrien21st june , 2011 @ 9:15 p.m . ( california time )  funny that this company is about 2km away from where i live , and i had never heard of it ...  martin ankerl22nd june , 2011 @ 5:06 a.m . in concept to the fanwing idea by pat peebles . that has great potential as well , if thought about from " outside the box " of traditional aviation design . i hope this advent shakes things up enough in aviation to finally get us up out of the gridlock traffic ( and those blasted signal lights ! ) : - ) get that ol ' faa on board early , folks !  mzungumkubwa22nd june , 2011 @ 6:13 a.m . ( california time )  http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=uscw9rlcbpw here 's a video of the original concept - by an italian inventor . but the thing ca n't autorotate and land without engines - so it 's an uav only technology for now .  k ? roly hoss22nd june , 2011 @ 6:45 a.m . ( california time )  @ martin . that 's coz " the d-dalus is also near-silent "  matthew fletcher22nd june , 2011 @ 6:52 a.m . ( california time )  " ... i had never heard of it ... "  so it really is silent ... ; - an assertion .  gary fisher22nd june , 2011 @ 6:59 a.m . ( california time )  if it was at the paris airshow - why no videos ? comeon gizmag - due dilligence in reporting please .  tim smalley22nd june , 2011 @ 7:11 a.m . ( california time )  thrust vectoring aside , it looks like it must have to rotate 90 degrees in order to change direction . with no lift created by wings , body or rotor , it must have to use substantial energy to stay aloft . i wonder if it can become the engine in a design that has , or can deploy , lifting surfaces for sustained flight ?  muraculous22nd june , 2011 @ 7:37 a.m . ( california time )  hmmmm i guess there 's no point in mentioning that i had a similar design in mind for some years now , but sadly i never had the resources or the time to put it into practice : ) . my theory is that the concept already existed since the 50 ' and that secret military aircraft planet .  this is huge , combined with high capacity energy storage devices , light weight super materials and modern computers it could well lead to the development of transportation devices from as small as individual hovercraft to future space ships .  inertial engines ftw  stefan padureanu22nd june , 2011 @ 8:46 a.m . ( california time )  nice to see a privateer get a novel idea to fly . but you ca n't get something for nothing . it is hard to fathom that this " vehicle " would be practicle in any way .  my fear is our stupid government inspite of all logic and known technologies that have already proven themselves will be duped into spending taxpayer dollars to figure out that this " vehicle " is a flop .  people want something that they ca n't have ( yet ) , an anti-gravity machine that runs on something other that petroleum that out performs proven platforms in use today .  david nance22nd june , 2011 @ 9:02 a.m . ( california time )  looking at the pictures it clearly does not engage enough air and will be heavy and inefficient . hence it is not a disruptive technology . it would be nice if gizmag authors were more highly trained in the fields they are commenting on .  rohn22nd june , 2011 @ 9:06 a.m . ( california time )  it appears to be a gang of tesla turbines . if so , credit should be given where it 's due , instead of attention whoring as to originality . the app seems original , the turbine ? not so much to me .  solutions4circuits22nd june , 2011 @ 9:24 a.m . ( california time )  well , if they did n't come up with a video or a small prototype , the best i can say is that i wish this was true . i i 've send my full description of a teleportation system to gizmag and still i 'm waiting for the review to be published . : )  salvatore.forte22nd june , 2011 @ 9:43 a.m . ( california time )  we now live where bladerunner and the fifth element went 10:37 a.m . ( california time )  maybe instead of pushing vast columns of air downward with fans it achieves lift as in a wing by moving/rotating the wing like aerofoils through the air within the 2200 rpm cylinders , is this feasible ? the aerofoils obviously pivot for directional control and each of the four cylinder 's have six of them . by using gyro and computer it could be very stable as described .  dgate22nd june , 2011 @ 10:41 a.m . ( california time )  like most things on gizmag , i will wait to see if this ever actually pans out before getting excited about it . mzungu , if anyone thinks ground traffic is bad , you ca n't imagine how bad it would be once even 0.1% of people fly to work . the constant noise , extreme fuel use , and " skylock " will very quickly change your mind and turn the public strongly against anyone flying low over their heads . for anyone in a city or town , imagine waiting in the air for clearance to proceed or ) while using the same fuel a car would to drive 150mph , because it will take the same or more fuel to sit still in the air as it does to fly at speed . commuting by air is a highly unrealistic pipe dream of people with no foresight . high speed ground transport is orders of magnitude more efficient and less intrusive for large portions of the population travelling every day . flying to work would be nothing like the freedom of driving a car with the ability to just pull over or stop where you want to . luckily , the insurance alone will kill " flying cars . "  mark in mi22nd june , 2011 @ 10:54 a.m . ( california time )  i was there until the article said " frictionless bearing " . then i smiled and realised it was a pr article so full of exaggeration and falsehoods . probably hoping to get dumb investors .  stuart halliday22nd june , 2011 @ 12:05 p.m . ( california time )  it 's obvious that the reason that there 's no video leave it to the mechanical and aeronautical engineers of the world to assess the real-world viability of this concept , but for my part i am reminded of moller 's sky car scam .  bob humbly22nd june , 2011 @ 12:24 p.m . ( california time )  the d-dalus is certainly not based on a tesla turbine , because between the rotating discs there are turnable wings mounted . to me this is a similar principle as is used for some vertical wind turbines . depending on how the turnable wings are tilted during the rotation of the discs the resulting air draft can be directed into any direction . the noise of this type of turbine is very likely also not as strong as with propellers or gas turbines with high rpm , because there are no stationary wings and with 2200 rpm the whole thing is not extremely fast . but it wont be silent , especially if it is driven by a motorbike engine .  why should we get-off from the ground ? a high speed train system running in low pressure underground tubes could co2-free produced electricity . for todays aircraft this is absolutely impossible .  newton2k122nd june , 2011 @ 1:50 p.m . ( california time )  d-dalus . no it has bladed rotors , therefore it is not using tesla turbine principle .  as with other aircraft , i.e. ducted fan , quad rotor &amp; coanda effect machines on losing an engine they tend to glide like a brick . therefore it would need to use a ballistic parachute or maybe mount on flying wing .  otherwise it is brilliant as i would think maintainance is a killer in rotor aircraft .  " as with other aircraft , i.e. ducted fan , quad rotor &amp; coanda effect machines on losing an engine they tend to glide like a brick . therefore it would need to use a ballistic parachute or maybe mount on flying wing . "  if just plain crashing is good enough for a host of other aerial vehicles , then it 's good enough for this one . : - )  " i 've send my full description of a teleportation system to be published . "  i may have an answer for you - did you use your teleportation system to send your description ? alcalde22nd june , 2011 @ 4:13 p.m . ( california time )  maybe the noise wo n't be all that bad as the rotors only turn 2200 rpm and the engine can be muffled .  why does a technical publication such as this always post articles about " zero polution " vehicles ? there 's no such thing . just because the vehicle is electric , compressed gas powerd or rubber band powered you have to get the energy from somewhere to start with . imagane the polution from an electric vehicle if the charging recepticle is energized by an old coal fired generation plant !  vhomer22nd june , 2011 @ 4:18 p.m . ( california time )  ladies &amp; gentlemen : you all are missing the crucial point . it is simply a mechanical force vectoring device . elegantly simple a modernization of the dean device .  tayopa  tayopa22nd june , 2011 @ 4:32 p.m . ( california time ) about as i am not that bright , but two things come to mind .  if you show someone a working model before the patents are granted you run the risk of someone copying it with changes , so no first mover advantage there , litigation to follow .  secondly easier to sell a concept with potential than a prototype that does n't work very well , but what would i know .  nick rowney22nd june , 2011 @ 5:47 p.m . ( california time )  have a look at fanwing dot com and you 'll have the general idea of how this thing works .  bas22nd june , 2011 @ 5:58 p.m . ( california time )  i wonder where its ah-killeez heel is ?  at 2200 rpm i ca n't imagine it not making noise enough to be considered silent . being very familiar with rotary wing helicopters i can only draw on that experience to found my opinion but it seems that any ducted fan with a rotation of over 1000 rpm is going to make noise .  i am are coming up with and with that what the thrust to weight ratio is .  i do n't doubt that a large on may be able to do heavy lifting , but it may have to be a really large one to lift heavy . possibly even a prohibitively large one .  i really want this to be true , but i am hearing way too much positive and find myself wishing they had thrown in at least one negative to make it more realistic .  dr.veritas22nd june , 2011 @ 5:59 p.m . ( california time )  an impulse drive system that regains its inertia in each rotational cycle at the direction of the counter weight .  flipider comm22nd june , 2011 @ 9:08 p.m . ( california time )  the device appears to be a cyclorotor design . just search google images for " cyclorotor wing aircraft " for a good cross section of designs dating back to the 1920s .  holly mcbeal22nd june , 2011 @ 9:38 p.m . ( california time )  i love the " entirely new " know , this " new genre " has been thot about since the early 20th ( if not before ) . some are continuing the development , obviously , as it appears to have great potential .  still , despite all this , and perhaps because it has such a history , there appears to be valid potential in the concept , and with modern advances and development perhaps these can be leveraged to our advantage !  mzungumkubwa23rd june , 2011 @ 6:05 a.m . ( california time )  how efficient is it ? how large of a tank ( or battery ) does it need to go 100 miles ?  brian bray23rd june , 2011 @ 1:32 p.m . ( california time )  the principle works in water ; if the novel bearing is for real , and the weight can be kept down , it could be the 1st iteration of the next big thing .  this concept is called cycloidal-rotor ( also known as cyclogyro/cyclocopter ) . this was invented almost 100 years back , but then , no one could build off the scene by around 1940s . my entire phd thesis was on understanding and using this concept to build a flying mav ( micro air vehicle ) . a video of the different configuration we built is in this link below http : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=sf8tv2pvwli you can get more information from my homepage http : **28;0;toolong  moble benedict10th july , 2011 @ 6:22 a.m . ( california time )  are they using servos for each individual blade , or are they using a helicopter-style collective and cyclic mechanical setup ? i would think it is far more likely that it is the latter  i meant collective pitch as in , if the blades on the ' front ' cylinders are angled inwards so that they collectively draw in air , while the blades at the ' back ' are all angled outwards so they expel air , the craft would move to the ' front '  perhaps additional axial blade elemens i.e. arranged like a traditional propeller , would enhance the inter-cylinder thrust and have more ' longitudinal ' thrust , which should be good edge-on rather than side-on  carmatic frua22nd august , 2011 @ 3:54 a.m . ( california time )  it looks like the inventor has something here . the usues really opens the imagination .  gargamoth18th december , 2011 @ 6:45 p.m . ( california time )  way way to many parts . remember to kiss  jay finke29th december , 2011 @ 10:15 a.m . ( california time )  we 'll be seeing more of these soon ...  emil hampton25th january , 2012 @ 11:52 a.m . ( california time )  as the former p.i.o. photographer for the 8th transportation battalion , light helicopters at oberschleissheim ( near munich ) , west germany , i can heartily attest as to their noise ( especially a small h-13 without the " bubble " canopy ) . however , the article specifically uses the term , " contra-rotating fans " which brings this thought to mind . there is an acoustical concept that states , " a standing half wave cancels itself " . it 's one of the main principles that made alembic speaker cabinets sound located in santa rosa , california and concentrate on just making high end electric stringed instruments and associated electronics . ) but the principle is still acoustically the same .  myron j. poltroonian25th february , 2012 @ 6:31 p.m . ( california time )  looks like it is 4 individually controlled cyclocopters ( fanwings minus the wing ) and each engine would be able to produce thrust in any direction . so it can rotate in place by having the two on the right produce thrust upward and forward while the left ones produce thrust in the upward and rearward direction . this sort of design is cool because it could even flip over either front to back or side to side and fly upside down easily . it has all the capabilities and stability of a quadcopter with the additional capability of producing a lot of forward thrust while staying level .  ashley elliott15th march , 2012 @ 9:52 p.m . ( california time )  tom swift and his ultrasonic cycloplane !  dr.kerrysmith28th march , 2012 @ 9:30 a.m . ( california time )  past . the orbit is eliptical and presents the most efficient incident angle for a much longer period and wastes little time in the end period of orbit where the transistion is made to the other side of the flattened circle . both elongated " flat " zones of the eliptical shape provide maximum lift by shifting the wing to the opposite angle for maximum angle of attack . check out the patents recently filed by the company as well as pop sci magazine .  rick carpenter23rd may , 2012 @ 9:05 p.m . ( california time )  here is a video of the first test flight of d-dalus . this was broadcast about a month ago on the austrian/german channel servus tv . it 's in german .