Six questions hoteliers should ask providers of cloud-based systems
http://www.tnooz.com/article/six-questions-hoteliers-should-ask-providers-of-cloud-based-systems/

got a hot tip ? tell us about it !  six questions hoteliers should ask providers of cloud-based systems  ibm did just that and surveyed 3,000 of them in its 2011 ibm global cio study , which found that cio interest in cloud computing notched the greatest category increase compared with results from its survey two years earlier .  and , if you consider virtualization -- when virtual servers are created on a single piece of hardware -- part of a private cloud strategy , and you should , then interest is even greater in cloud technologies than the chart indicates .  however , in most cases , i would n't expect to see hoteliers deploy their own cloud instances , but they are more likely to use crs , pms and rms systems via a software-as-a-service model . cloud/saas can bring many advantages over on-premise solutions for hoteliers . among them :  access to the latest version without the pain often associated with upgrades ;  removal of the burden of application and infrastructure management ; and  potential for heightened in the industry voice concerns regarding availability , security and disaster recovery . and , wolfe notes that part of hftp 's role is to help educate its members about the pros and cons of cloud computing and help eliminate misinformation , which fuels fear , uncertainty and doubt .  i understand that hoteliers worry about being cut off from their pms and not being able to check in guests , or their crs and not being able to take reservations , which can be disastrous given that room nights are a perishable good . further , i can understand how events such as cloud outages and the ensuing headlines can fan the flames .  the cloud does not fix poorly designed applications automagically , but good software design and architecture can address availability and security issues and it must take the computing environment into consideration .  but in evaluating whether to choose a cloud/saas solution over on premise you also need to do an honest evaluation of your own it organization 's ability to manage your infrastructure . google 's cloud-based gmail service offers 99.984% availability , implementation .  in addition , the cloud is being used by the federal government and financial institutions , both of which likely have stricter , more complicated regulatory requirements than most hotels .  and , major cloud platforms offer better physical and network security than virtually all hotel chains can provide . these examples show that the cloud is not inherently less secure or less available than on premise solutions .  so , that being said , what are the six questions that you should ask hospitality software suppliers about their cloud offering , whether you 're at hitec or not :  1 . is it really cloud ? you may think this a bit pedantic , but there is an awful lot of cloud-washing going on in the enterprise software business , so there 's no reason to think that hospitality software should be any different . there is so much buzz about " the cloud " that some may use the term while not implementing their solution in a public cloud manner . some may simply be offering a hosted model in their own datacenters like virtualization , but this is not necessarily the same thing . some of the key aspects of real cloud offerings include : infinite bi-directional elasticity ; pay for what you use ; and detailed monitoring and reporting ( governance )  2 . do you have service level agreements on rto/rpo ? ok , let 's start with a few definitions . rto is recovery time objective and rpo is recovery point objective . these are critical disaster recovery attributes . bascially they translates into how fast will you get my application back up and how far back in time are you backing up my data . if vendors do n't have slas on rpo then they 're likely not using continuous data protection techniques and you have a greater risk of losing data if the app crashes .  3 . what are the availability slas ? it 's one thing to quote uptime in marketing materials , but at some point you have to put your money where your mouth is . the penalties never truly make up for the loss of service , but it gives you basis for how you should evaluate that performance against an existing solution .  4 . is there an offline mode ? just because something is cloud-based does n't mean it only works when you 're online . there are techniques that can enable some level of offline functionality and then automatically synchronize when you 're back online .  5 . what about integration ? a pms or a crs have to talk with other solutions , whether it be restaurant , golf facility , spa or accounting systems . one of the challenges in the early days of saas in the enterprise was that it was difficult to knit together different systems . some companies build their own integrations , others use platforms like boomi ( acquired by dell last year ) . but you need to find out what systems they integrate with automatically and check that against the other systems that you need to connect with . if there are gaps , ask the company how it will help you close them .  6 . how can i get my data back out ? this is will gladly tell you how easy it is to get onboard , but rarely are they forthcoming about how you can get your data back out . some refer to this as data portability . it 's critically important as you may need to change systems if you change flags or if you just do n't like the way the platform works . be sure you are comfortable with the flexibility provided .  cloud computing can be a very useful tool for hoteliers . but before you make the move , be sure that you ask the right questions and get the right answers when choosing a platform .  hi glean , i agree with your 6 points . especially in the first point you have raised a important question that is " is it really cloud " , cause as a hotel management software provider hoteliers mostly ask us the different between cloud based and web based hospitality management software .  a good piece and i agree with glenn , not just restricted to hoteliers in the travel industry . these questions apply just as much to in questions pertaining to the security of data . especially in light of the recent data loss by giants like sony .  these are great questions but are not just limited to hoteliers . i think it would be safe to say that any business considering porting to a cloud based saas should be asking these key questions . thanks glenn .