Spirit of Hope - A Comic Anthology for Japan and New Zealand
http://www.wired.com/2011/06/spirit-of-hope-a-comic-anthology-for-japan-and-new-zealand/

spirit of hope -- a comic anthology for japan and new zealand  spirit of hope covers by jimmy broxton and mike allred  the terrible natural disasters that befell japan and new zealand earlier this year may have faded from the minds of the tv news crews , but they are still very much in the minds of those who have suffered at the hands of mother nature . spirit of hope is a new comic book anthology that aims to help provide some relief for those who have lost their homes , loved ones and livelihoods as a result of the devastating earthquakes .  this article has been reproduced in a new format and may be missing content or contain faulty links . contact wiredlabs@wired.com to report an issue .  freelance comic writer alan cowsill was approached by the comic book alliance shortly after the earthquake and resulting tsunami hit japan on march 11 this year , to see if he was interested in being involved in small charity project to raise money for the victims . he said " yes " without pinging with messages from artists all over the world offering their help . the project quickly outgrew its " small " status and blossomed into a 52-page book . within a week , it was clear that a 116-page graphic novel was where it was heading , and alan was spending most of his time collating and organizing the artwork coming in from talented artists such as nick abadzis , liam sharp and henry flint .  with the artwork flying in to a special ftp ( donated by one of alan 's regular employers , eaglemoss publishing ) , alan set about deciding on the running order .  " jimmy broxton one of dc comics ' leading artists sent his amazing image in . it screamed cover to me ... but we already had a great mike allred cover . luckily this is comics where variants are the norm . two covers seemed the logical way to go ... " wrote alan over on his blog .  he had help from many friends -- printing by ukomics , james hodgkins handled the design , gary gilbert prepared the , and dan rachael " was on hand to ... deal with the odd emergency . "  spirit of hope by mark buckingham  three months ( and a lot of late nights ) later and spirit of hope is ready to go . you can buy a copy ( with your choice of cover ) directly from the comic book alliance for ? 14.99 plus shipping ( ? 3 for uk , ? 5 for the rest of the world ) with all the proceeds going to second harvest and the new zealand red cross . the first 350 copies ordered directly from the cba will also receive three a5 prints -- of both covers ( shown above ) and mark buckingham 's piece ( show on the right ) , and there 's also a digital version in the works too .  the best thing about an anthology of this sort is being exposed to new writers and artists that you may not have heard of before , and seeing the myriad of different illustration and writing styles that they use . fine art watercolors sit side-by-side painted art , crisp vector illustrations vie for your attention with digital paintings -- and , not surprisingly , hokusai 's the great wave is a recurring motif . similarly , the writing styles range from the comedic to the serious , from haikus to diaries , and from poetry to history and science lessons . some eschew a " story " for a few choice words to compliment the pictures , others still forgo words entirely and let the pictures speak for themselves . all make you think about what the victims of these natural disasters are going through .  " the ship , " by richmond clements and inko , starts off by showing a baby having his bath and playing with a toy ship whilst his doting mother looks on . the pale blue of the ship is the only color in the strip , and in the later panels we see it lying amongst the debris . it 's eventually found by the mother , but there is no baby in sight . very strong emotions , all conveyed without a single word .  in this time , " by michiru morikawa , we see some of the ' hope ' as a small boy gives up his chance of getting the latest gadget to donate his savings to the quake appeal . david leach 's " psycho gran vs . big t. " seems to have jumped straight from the pages of viz , as the granny of the title battles a godzilla-esque baddie , seemingly without any connection to the events of march 11th .  spirit of hope by chris weston  the stories are filled with mythical legends of the destructors and superheroes doing their bit to save the day , but it 's the strips with real-life heroes that really make the anthology -- the dad saving his son in jason cobley and andrew wildman 's " rumble " or one dog saving another in " courage " by leonie o'moore . having all of the various tales broken up by the occasional single page painting or illustration is a really nice touch too , giving you a pause to reflect on what you 've just read or seen in addition  of course , donating to worthy causes is always a very good thing to do , but it 's even better when you get something more tangible than a glowing sense of goodwill back , so please head over to the comic book alliance and order your copy now . and if you like your music bleepy , you might also consider downloading a copy of the nihon kizuna album , where you can get 50 tracks of choice electronica for a minimum of ? 10 and a further 34 track bonus compilation on a ' pay what you want ' basis , with all the proceeds again going to the red cross .