City man claims police brutality
http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/news/926340-196/suspects-witness-dispute-police-version-of-july.html

suspects , witness dispute police version of july 1 arrest in nashua  nashua -- maybe michael gannon should n't have given lip to two police detectives that afternoon .  but gannon claims he would n't have said a word on july 1 if a detective -- unprovoked , gannon said -- had n't shouted something at him as their unmarked police car passed by on canal street .  at the time , gannon said he was standing with his back to traffic in a parking spot commonly used by motorcycles across from the dunkin ' donuts near the intersection of canal and main streets .  gannon said he did n't hear the exact words the nashua police detective yelled from the passenger window , but he caught the gist .  " they said something about my son only they and i would know , " gannon said .  gannon 's teenage son has been in trouble with the law . so has he . it was in this context that gannon responded as he did , he said .  " 55 , of 24 temple st. , admits he yelled back at the passing police detectives .  that precipitated a chain of events in which gannon was tackled , maced , handcuffed and then punched and kicked by two police detectives as he lay on the ground , according to gannon and two witnesses , pamela reynolds , who was also arrested , and her boyfriend , brian raymond .  all three say gannon did n't resist arrest , only turned his back and began to walk away from the detectives after being told he was n't under arrest .  " i did n't have time to resist , " gannon said .  the two detectives were on him immediately , he said .  he and the other two witnesses said police overreacted to his wisecrack .  " i blew his ego with that comment . by all means , that detective was unglued , " gannon said .  it also probably did n't help gannon 's cause that he told police he was videotaping the incident with a small kodak mini camcorder . he does n't know the detectives ' names , but he recognized their faces through his past dealings with police .  the nashua police department 's version of what happened about 5 p.m . july 1 differs markedly .  " mr. gannon was yelling and swearing and was warned repeatedly to cease that behavior , " detective lt. frank sullivan said .  when gannon did n't desist , the officers placed him under arrest -- " and he did resist an arrest , " sullivan said .  according to information police released after the incident , gannon was recording police . when he was told he was under arrest , gannon handed his video camera to pamela reynolds , 44 , of 76 spit brook road , nashua .  officers demanded reynolds give them the camera as evidence , but she fled and tried to hide the camera in some bushes , police said . she also struggled with officers when they caught up with her , police said .  reynolds disputes the police account .  she said she was in the green area , who was walking his own dog , showed up and they began chatting .  as gannon was being tackled by police , he tossed the camcorder to her , which she immediately threw into nearby pushes , she said , because she did n't want anything to do with device or with the incident .  instead , she found herself arrested and maced , reynolds said .  her boyfriend , brian raymond , was with her .  " she did absolutely nothing but be at the wrong place at the wrong time , " raymond said . " the whole thing was not fair . it was n't right . "  raymond also said gannon was trying to walk away and end the confrontation before he was arrested , but the detectives " would n't let him . they blocked his path , " raymond said .  raymond acknowledged that gannon 's wisecrack to the passing police car was probably " not the right thing to have done . i would n't have done it . but it 's not against the law . assault on a police officer and disorderly conduct .  police are applying for a search warrant to look at the footage on the video camera , which police seized , sullivan said .  in 2006 , gannon was arrested on felony wiretapping charges after he brought the recordings to the police station to complain that a detective was rude to him . the case drew international attention , especially online , and police later opted to drop the charges . police also concluded that gannon 's complaint against the detective was justified .  it is illegal to videotape a conversation without the person 's permission . however , gannon believes he has a right to record in a public place .  undeterred by the events , gannon still carries a camcorder -- the exact same type as the one police seized .  patrick meighan can be reached at 594-6518 or **28;0;toolong