US Women's Soccer and the Problem of American Exceptionalism
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rabbi-joshua-hess/us-womens-soccer-the-prob_b_899441.html

U.S. Women 's Soccer and the Problem of American Exceptionalism  As I write this article a few hours after the U.S. Women 's Soccer team beat France in the World Cup semifinals , I know that if they lose in the finals , the American excitement toward soccer will wane once again . To be perfectly honest , soccer in our country will continue to be considered a boring , low-scoring game that rarely generates interest or excitement among American sports fans .  But , for now , U.S. Soccer -- nay , U.S. Women 's Soccer -- is the talk of the town . Some have argued that it 's the talk of the town by default , because all the other sports are involved in contentious labor disputes ; and baseball , well , September is still far away . Others contend that they have become the darlings of our country because of their flair for the dramatic and the thrill of their quarterfinal victory over Brazil . While these factors have contributed to the sudden popularity of soccer in the U.S. , why the country is captivated by these women , and it serves as an important reminder to us about our priorities and goals in life .  We Americans have this obsessive need to be the best at whatever we do . We are the most powerful country in the world , and we never miss an opportunity to remind others of our superiority . Our culture and politics are based on " American Exceptionalism , " which means that we believe that we are better than everyone else . Therefore , if there is an activity or program that we are n't the best at , we tend to quickly rationalize and explain that our deficiency should not be confused with our inadequacy . " Who needs soccer , " we say to the rest of the world . It 's not that important to us . We play football , a real man 's sport .  However , in our heart of hearts , we know the reality -- that soccer is the world 's sport . And we really want to be the best at soccer . they are not a championship-caliber team quite yet . We get excited when they win a couple of games , but we do n't expect anything more than that . With the Women 's Soccer team , though , there is a different feeling in the air . We really believe that they can win and that they can be the best . We , therefore , do n't feel ashamed or timid to cheer and brag about our Women 's Soccer team to the rest of the world . We jump on the bandwagon with great enthusiasm .  I believe this tendency to jump on the bandwagon when our national team is enjoying success is representative of the American sports culture . We are n't interested in mere competition ; the thrill of participation is not satisfying enough . What matters is that we win -- not just one game , but everything . Indeed , after the U.S. Women 's thrilling victory against Brazil , the sportswriters were questioning the team 's ability to regroup and refocus , and predicted that if they do n't win the World by Amy Wambach in extra time .  Our collective attitude toward tennis , golf and the Olympics are illustrative of this cultural phenomenon . In years past , when the top tennis players were American , like Connors and McEnroe , tennis boomed in this country . More recently , with no transcendent American star , interest has waned . The same is true in golf . Now that Tiger Woods is no longer dominant , golf is not as big a draw as it was just a few years ago . Similarly , ratings are routinely higher for the Summer Olympics , where the Americans usually win the medal count , compared to the winter games in which we are constantly bested by other countries .  We American 's revere the great football coach Vince Lombardi , who famously said , " winning is n't everything , it 's the only thing . " But is this credo something we really want to live by ? When we teach our children to play sports , we stress the thrill and value of competition , not winning . We or lose , but how you play the game . "  Unfortunately , that ideal is often forgotten once we actually begin to compete . By and large , American culture no longer believes that maxim . Instead , we have become a nation wedded to the concept that " winning is the only thing . " How sad . We have lost the joy that comes from challenging ourselves to compete , and from knowing that we have given our best effort , even if we did n't win .  The unhealthy emphasis placed on winning in our society , conflicts with one of the basic precepts of Judaism , which values the journey toward perfection and recognizes that true perfection is only found in God . This idea is evidenced by the biblical commandment that every Jew study the Bible . It does n't matter whether he or she will become a scholar , rabbi , businessperson or mailman . From the Jewish perspective , the pursuit of knowledge is far more important and commendable than being the best or most knowledgeable . Every person is obligated Jew he can be , even if he never achieves renown or greatness .  So while we revel in the achievement of the Women 's Soccer team ( for now ) , we should learn to appreciate athletes who give their all and compete to the best of their ability , even when they fall short of their goals and our national dreams . Win or lose , good or bad , we would be wise to show the same excitement and zeal when we observe valiant competitors in any walk of life , striving for excellence , so that our children will learn to appreciate the thrill and joy of competition . That 's the true American spirit .