Feds pay for study of gay men's penis sizes
http://dailycaller.com/2011/07/18/feds-pay-for-study-of-gay-men%E2%80%99s-penis-sizes/

feds pay for study of gay men 's penis sizes  kajsa westman , second from right , of stockholm , sweden , and victor ng , right , of seattle , tie balloons to a banner in preparation for the annual gay pride parade , sunday , june 26 , 2011 in new york . one of the world 's oldest and largest gay pride parades was expected to become a victory celebration sunday after new york 's historic decision to legalize same-sex marriage . the law signed by gov . andrew cuomo on friday does n't take effect for 30 days . ( ap photo/mark lennihan )  2588648  the national institutes of health ( nih ) subsidized a study attempting to find out if a gay man 's penis size has any correlation with his sexual health .  the research , titled " the association between penis size and sexual health among men who have sex with men , " began in 2006 and surveyed 1,065 gay men . among its key findings : those gay men who felt they had small bottoms , " or anal receptive , while gay men with larger penises were more likely to identify themselves as " tops , " or anal insertive .  another discovery from the research : men with smaller penises were more likely to be psychologically troubled than those with larger genitalia . the goal of the study was to understand the " real individual-level consequences of living in a penis-centered society . "  the researchers at hunter college center for hiv/aids educational studies training ( chest ) got taxpayer money as part of an nih grant that went to public health solutions and the national development and research institutes , inc . ( ndri ) .  ndri has received taxpayer money since 1985 for " behavioral science research on drug abuse , aids and crime . " nih records show that ndri has received more than $15 million since 2000 .  grant records indicate that nih funds ndri wth taxpayer dollars in order to " prepare behavioral scientists , especially from minority backgrounds , for careers in drug abuse research and allied fields " -- a goal accomplished minority backgrounds , for traineeships , " giving them " advanced training in substantive topics and theory , research methods and practices , and the ethical conduct of research , " and by " mentoring and advising trainees . "  " we 've got nameless , faceless bureaucrats who thought this was a good use of taxpayer money , " says andrea lafferty , president of the traditional values coalition , which surfaced the penis-size study . " but , at the end of the day , it was the nih directors who signed off on it . these nameless , faceless bureacrats seem to think the american taxpayers are a limitless atm machine . "  at the university of wisconsin at madison , researchers are attempting to use video games to break " bias " against women and minorities in the so-called " stemm " hard-science fields ( science , technology , engineering , mathematics and medicine ) .  the study , which received just under $2 million in 2010 stimulus package money and is likely to receive similar amounts each year through 2013 ( according to their " implicit stereotype-based biases " against minorities and women by developing a video game . according to the researchers , the video game will teach faculty members to " recognize and self-correct " those biases , even if they 're " unintentional . "