Service dog 'saved life' of Mechanicsburg veteran with post ...
http://www.pennlive.com/midstate/index.ssf/2011/07/service_dog_saved_life_of_mech.html

when douglas maugans is plagued by nightmares of war , he can always count on tanner to wake him up .  view full sizebeth anne heesen , the patriot-newsdouglas maugans of mechanicsburg , who has post-traumatic stress disorder , worked in air traffic control with the army national guard . he has a special bond with tanner , whom he taught to be a service dog with training from helping hounds .  the 5-year-old english springer spaniel presses the touch pad on maugans ' nightstand with his nose to turn the light on , gets up on his master 's chest and lies there for as long as he 's needed .  two years ago , tanner became a medical service dog through helping hounds , a program sponsored by the central pennsylvania animal alliance of mechanicsburg , which works out of an airplane hanger at the capital city airport in fairview township .  maugans saved tanner from a rescue shelter in new orleans four years ago , and now tanner was ready to save his master .  after a year and felt like he was n't a person anymore . he left home as the mayor of marysville in 1999 and returned in 2000 with ptsd .  he spent almost three years in a veteran affairs hospital , got out in 2009 and moved to mechanicsburg .  fear of being in crowds kept him " living like a hermit " in his house . he often had panic attacks , and his night terrors were so bad that he did n't know night from day because of his rocky sleep schedule .  " tanner transformed my life to the point where i became socialized again . i got involved with the vfw , do my own shopping and visit veterans in the hospital . "  tanner learned to get in and out of buses and how to behave in an elevator . he learned to walk beside maugans ' cart at the grocery store and resist temptation to grab items from shelves .  if maugans is in line or in a crowd of people -- where hyper-vigilance kicks in and he is easily startled -- tanner stands comes within 5 or 10 feet .  " when you 're with your dog , it takes the focus off you , " maugans said .  most people do n't realize that he has a disability , so tanner is the icebreaker that allows him to talk about it .  " people see his vest and say , ' are you training him to be a service dog ? ' and i say , ' no , he is my service dog . ' to be able to talk about it at least on the surface is important . "  with tanner as his service dog , maugans no longer needs to take anxiety and sleep meds , which helped in the past but put him in a fog .  " the reason why dogs chew things up and destroy your house is that they do n't have a job to do , " said joan klingler , a volunteer trainer for helping hounds . " they have a phenomenal amount of energy , and a walk around the block just is n't enough . " " homework " helping hounds gives him .  " i have to train him , and if i fail i 'd be letting not only myself down but also my dog , " he said .  kelly mcginley , who started the program in 2009 , said the dogs give the vets the sense of camaraderie that they had with other soldiers in combat .  maugans takes tanner with him to visit hospitalized vets . to know that he can encourage others who go through the same things he does is the greatest achievement .  " if it was n't for tanner , i 'm 100 percent sure i would have been back in the hospital . he saved my life . "  most read  active discussions  get ' today 's front page ' in your inbox  this newsletter is sent every morning at 6 a.m. and includes the morning 's top stories , a full list of obituaries , links to comics and puzzles and the most recent news , sports and entertainment headlines .  leave this field blank  optionalcheck offers and information.see our privacy policy  thank you for signing up for ' today 's front page '  to view and subscribe to any of our other newsletters , please click here .