Fish-oil supplements, low-fat diet shown to slow growth of prostate ...
http://www.mlive.com/health/index.ssf/2011/10/fish-oil_supplements_low-fat_d.html

Sue Thoms Press photoThe study participants took 5 grams of fish oil a day in capsules at breakfast and dinner .  For several weeks , 48 men with prostate cancer had meals cooked by a chef and delivered to their homes to test the effect of diet on cancer . The result : Those who ate a low-fat diet and took fish-oil supplements had slower cancer cell growth than the men who ate a traditional , high-fat Western diet .  " You truly are what you eat , " said Dr. William Aronson , a clinical professor of urology at UCLA 's Johnsson Comprehensive Cancer Center . " We are extremely pleased about our findings , which suggest that by altering the diet , we may favorably affect the biology of prostate cancer . "  He says he 's not ready to make dietary recommendations based on the study just yet : He wants to run a longer-term study with more participants . But the results so far are encouraging , he said .  The National Cancer Institutes predict more than 240,000 men the disease will cause nearly 34,000 deaths .  The UCLA study tested the effect of diet on men for four to six weeks before they had their prostates removed . In addition to finding slower cancer-cell growth , the researchers saw a change in the composition of cell membranes in healthy cells and cancer cells in men on the low-fat , fish-oil supplement diet .  The cells had higher levels of omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil and lower levels of omega-6 fatty acids from corn oil . Aronson said that could directly affect the cells ' biology , although he said more study was needed .  When researchers studied blood from the patients in test tubes , the blood from those on the low-fat diet slowed the growth of cancer cells . The blood from men on the Western diet did not .  " The finding that the low-fat , fish oil diet reduced the number of rapidly dividing cells in the prostate cancer tissue is important because the rate at which the cells are dividing can be predictive of future cancer progression , " Aronson the lesser the chances that the cancer will spread outside the prostate , where it is much harder to treat . "  Because it can be difficult to get patients to comply with dietary studies , the researchers took extra steps to control food consumption . Meals prepared by chefs at UCLA 's Clinical Translational Cancer Center were delivered several times a week to participants -- who were required to return uneaten food .  For those on the low-fat diet , 15 percent of the calories came from fat . They also took five grams of fish oil a day in capsules taken at breakfast and dinner .  In the Western diet , 40 percent of the calories came from fat . It included high levels of omega-6 fatty acids from corn oil and low levels of omega-3 fatty acid from fish oil .