Sylvester Stallone accused of stealing another guy's screenplay to ...
http://www.avclub.com/article/sylvester-stallone-accused-of-stealing-another-guy-64090

Sylvester Stallone accused of stealing another guy 's screenplay to make The Expendables  Despite the fact that everyone knows The Expendables was synthesized by a supercomputer that stayed up really late watching HBO , a man named Marcus Webb is suing Sylvester Stallone for allegedly stealing his original script , The Cordoba Caper , which he says is " strikingly similar and in some places identical " to Stallone 's action movie guys ' night out . Webb claims that he first registered The Cordoba Caper as both a short story and a screenplay in 2006 before making it " widely available " to potential investors within the movie industry until 2009 .  Within that time frame , Webb contends that Stallone and/or Expendables co-writer David Callahan must have seen it and lifted various elements from it for their movie -- including certain wholesale characters and plot points , such as the main story about a mission undertaken by a group of elite mercenaries to overthrow an evil Latin American dictator named General Garza , as well as an opening scene involving a hostage rescue main plot . " Webb is seeking unspecified damages for copyright infringement as well as a court order preventing any further infringement in the upcoming sequel .  It 's not the first time Stallone has been accused of plagiarism , of course : Boxer Chuck Wepner famously sued Stallone for failing to compensate him properly for dramatizing his life story to make Rocky , a case that eventually settled out of court . And Staying Alive , obviously , was a total rip-off of Charles Dickens . Anyway , while Webb 's story does n't include a dozen aging former action stars doing the film equivalent of doing some really loud bench-pressing in front of all the young hotshots at Gold 's Gym , the rest is certainly condemning . Stallone has yet to comment , but judging from his ( sadly abandoned ) Twitter feed , if he did it would probably sound something like , " Truth shadowboxes with itself in the desert , and the vultures come to pick the leftover bones . " Or something .