Ballerina reveals beauty of surfing to China
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-surfing-china-idUSTRE79P58Y20111026

ballerina reveals beauty of surfing to china  china 's darci liu is pictured after her heat at the swatch girls pro china surfing competition in wanning , hainan island october 26 , 2011 .  reuters/will swanton  hainan island , china a ballerina " danced across the sea " to introduce professional surfing to china on wednesday .  darci liu received a wildcard for the first event held in her homeland by the association of surfing professionals , and she was swarmed by spectators as she emerged from the water after an opening round defeat by san diego 's jennifer smith .  " i feel very grateful and very proud to have had the chance to surf here and to compete against a champion like jennifer , " liu told reuters . " she is the best surfer in the world and this is the biggest day of my life .  " i want more people in china to know about surfing and this is the start . it is a graceful and beautiful sport , it is dancing across the sea so i feel like the baby of the event , but the baby is very excited . it 's why i have a smile on my face that will last a long time . "  liu studied ballet at the hubei provincial art school before dancing professionally in guangdong in 2006 . it was only the following year that liu , from hainan island , was encouraged by her californian husband to catch her first wave .  she created a slice of history here by becoming the first chinese surfer to compete in an asp event -- the swatch girls pro china is doubling as the women 's longboard world championship .  " these surfers will be remembered as pioneers , " said brodie carr , the association of surfing professionals chief executive . " we thought china was an impossible place for us to enter , but we 've done it . we 're here and this is just the beginning .  " china is a powerful athletic country , a vast country and marketplace with a potential billion-strong audience for us .  " we we 've entered a new frontier . this is a landmark day that we 'll be looking back on for years to come . "  most competitors , including two-times world champion smith , were completely unaware china had surf until the venue was announced this year . the opening ceremony was a lavish affair with dancing , singing and fireworks .  carr said more surfing events for hainan island , a lush , palm tree-lined area being promoted as the hawaii of asia , were in the pipeline .  the mayor of wanning said liu 's debut had helped put hainan island on the map of world surfing .  " china has open arms to surfing from this day , " he said . " we want new tourists to come to beautiful and dynamic wanning .  " we have a healthy , passionate and dynamic coastal location and we want to popularize surfing in china . "