First-ever nationwide test of Emergency Alert System set for ...
http://www.cnn.com/2011/11/08/us/emergency-alert-test/

first-ever nationwide test of emergency alert system set for wednesday  by mike m. ahlers , cnn  updated 6:29 pm et , tue november 8 , 2011  story highlights  all previous tests of the network have been local or regional , and optional  wednesday 's test will include a live " presidential " alert code , giving it priority  people who can not hear their cable tv 's sound will not know it is only a test  " this is a test . this is only a test . "  when millions of americans hear that warning at 2 p.m . et wednesday , the words will sound familiar , but the occasion will be historic . it will mark the first-ever nationwide test of the emergency alert system , a system with cold war roots that enables the president to address the american public within 10 minutes from any location at any time .  although state and local communities regularly use the system to notify communities about tornadoes , child abductions and other events , all previous tests involve the voluntary compliance of broadcasters . wednesday 's test is the first national test featuring a live " presidential " alert code , which instructs tv and radio stations that the alert takes priority over all other programming .  " i think the biggest reason nobody ever tested it was because of all the concerns of what could happen and what could go wrong , " federal emergency management agency chief craig fugate told cnn tuesday . " we take a different approach . if we do n't test it , we do n't know what we need to fix . "  officials at fema and at the federal communications commission , which ordered the test , expect things to go smoothly .  but there are concerns . chief among them : cable television systems are worried the test will unduly alarm deaf and hard-of-hearing viewers . that is because some cable systems , unlike broadcast and satellite tv , can not superimpose a visual warning saying " this is a test " over the government 's graphic . instead , they will see only this scrolled " which gives no visual indication it is just a test .  some critics also said the test is a stark reminder that -- 10 years after the september 11 terrorist attacks -- the nation is still living with an antiquated warning system in a digital world .  the test will air on every broadcast , cable and satellite tv station in the nation , as well as every am , fm and satellite radio station . but it will not be sent to landline or cell phones , pagers or computers , which millions of people monitor for news and information .  the country has made strides in developing an integrated warning system featuring mobile devices , but for most americans , those systems are years away .  and some experts question whether the warning system has much value at the national level .  in a local emergency such as a gas leak , emergency management expert art botterell notes , the system enables authorities to tell the homeowners to stay inside or to evacuate . " but if the message is nationwide , what he said .  the system was not used during the september 11 terrorist attack , botterell noted . but it remains , at a national level , a symbol of the president 's authority and responsibility , he said .  " i think the bottom line is everybody prays to god that we do n't have to use it , because if we do , whether it works or not will probably be the least of everybody 's worries . "  blink and you 'll miss it  the test will be brief -- 30 seconds from start to finish .  in the event of a real emergency , the test would originate from wherever the president is . for test purposes , it will originate from a fema operations center . the president will not be involved and will not speak .  but to duplicate real-world conditions , fema will initiate the test by sending a " live " presidential alert code , a code that would be used in an actual emergency , to a number of radio stations known as primary entry point the information in a daisy chain fashion to other radio and television stations .  when a station receives the alert , it must discontinue normal programming and make its transmission lines available for the presidential message .  under the emergency alert system agreement , participating stations agree to carry the message , but they have the option of signing off the air .  in some systems , the presidential alert automatically interrupts programming ; at other stations , a switch is made manually .  at the end of the message , a termination signal is sent to stations allowing them to return to normal programming .  after wednesday 's test , stations must report the results to the fcc within 45 days . the fcc says it will not release test data to the public , saying broadcasters worry that potentially embarrassing results could discourage participation in future tests , and test data could reveal security vulnerabilities .  concerns about confusion  not everyone says the system is ready for a test .  three weeks ago , the national cable and telecommunications association asked number of cable households will not see an on-screen message that ' this is a test . ' "  instead , the on-screen text will simply state : " this is an emergency action notification , " and in some cases , " for the united states " or " for the district of columbia " depending upon the equipment .  " this raises the possibility that some viewers , particularly the deaf and hard-of-hearing , could mistakenly believe that the test is an actual national emergency , " ncta president michael powell wrote .  broadcasters and satellite tv providers may be able to superimpose a message that a " test " is being conducted , powell wrote , but cable distributors generally do not have such equipment in place .  " the most prudent course would be to postpone the national test until better functionality exists in the eas system to visually indicate that it is a test , " powell wrote .  the fcc responded by limiting the duration of the test to 30 seconds to " reduce any potential disruptions " and minimize fema also started a public outreach campaign to notify the hearing impaired , senior citizens , people with mental health issues and people with limited english skills .  but reducing the length of the test means one feature of the system can not be tested .  " under the rules , the president can interrupt ( a broadcast ) and speak as long as they want , " botterell said . " but in the case of other ( non-presidential ) messages , there is a two-minute limit . " so there is " lurking fear " that some equipment may be programmed to cut off emergency alerts after two minutes , he said .  reducing the test to 30 seconds will mean those systems will not be detected , although they are believed to be few and far between , he said .  establishing a benchmark  the fcc says the test will establish a benchmark against which future progress can be measured .  " it 's a benchmark that should have been done over a decade ago , " said richard rudman , vice  " we need to shake out some of the distribution points to see what works and what does n't , " rudman said . " i do not believe it is going to cause panic in the streets . "  he said problems could have been avoided if the fcc had required equipment upgrades sooner . " we 've known about this for over a decade , " he said .  experts say the emergency alert system being tested wednesday is unlike the system that americans will someday use , which will allow messages to be transmitted through tvs , radios , mobile phones , pagers and other means . but change has come slowly , some say .  " we 've been nine months away from the ( integrated system ) for about five years now , " botterell said . " it has slipped continually . "  but fema 's fugate is optimistic .  tests are already being conducted in new york city of devices that receive emergency alerts , and they will become more commonplace as new technology replaces the old . ) in the next year and in other locations , it may be another year or two . but it 's coming , " fugate said .