The New Challenge of Leading Financial Firms
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/the-new-challenge-of-leading-financial-firms

The New Challenge of Leading Financial Firms  Running a financial organization , never easy to begin with , has quickly become one of the most difficult leadership challenges that an executive can undertake , requiring mastery of talent management , change management , and ethics . An interview with Professor Boris Groysberg , who teaches a new HBS Executive Education program on the subject with Professor Paul M. Healy . Key concepts include :  Leading a financial firm is very different from leading any other kind of institution , requiring deep skills in a multitude of areas .  Financial firms make expensive bets on top talent , but often make hiring decisions without enough deliberation .  Risk management , strategy for growth , and competing in emerging markets are especially critical for financial firms to get right .  Running a financial institution , never easy to begin with , has quickly become one of the most difficult leadership challenges that an executive can undertake , requiring mastery of talent management , change management , and ethics .  " The business today " -- Paul M. Healy  " The business today is much more complex than ten or twenty years ago , " said Harvard Business School Professor Paul M. Healy in a recent interview . " The firms in the business have much more complexity in the types of the risks they are managing , in the types of diversity of the businesses they are in , in terms of how global they are . "  Realizing that the headaches and rewards of these leaders are somewhat singular to their field , Healy and colleague Boris Groysberg have created an HBS Executive Education program called Leadership in Financial Organizations . Combining a mix of case studies , lectures , and interactive exercises , the program is designed for high-level managers or executives at banks , insurance companies , asset management or private equity firms , or hedge funds . Groysberg and Healy will teach the program in England , in India , in China , and on the HBS Boston campus throughout 2012 and 2013 .  " Leading a financial institution is very different from leading any other kind become a leader in a manufacturing company , for example , all you 're basically going to have to do is manage . When you become a leader in a major financial institution , you must do several major things and do them really well . If you 're a trader , for example , you have to trade , you have to lead , and you have to manage . You have three jobs . "  One way leadership of a financial firm differs from others is in the emphasis that must be placed in recruiting and retaining talent .  " It always fascinates me how an investment banker who has spent months and months and months analyzing a particular deal between two companies can spend only a few minutes making a hiring decision for his team , when the firm is sometimes paying millions of dollars in guaranteed compensation , " Groysberg says .  Hiring And Managing  Talent acquisition , development , and retention is a key topic for financial firms that Groysberg raises in his new book , Chasing Stars : the fact that from one firm to another . Too often , managers fail to consider that a top performer 's success may have been due in large part to the culture of the previous organization ; hence , the type of person who thrived at Goldman Sachs might flounder at Credit Suisse .  But there 's a broader reason for performance declines : banks often do n't spend much time on training and development , a symptom of a general culture of impatience in the financial world .  " Hiring is not an event . It 's a process " -- Boris Groysberg  " Hiring is not an event , " Groysberg says . " It 's a process . When that person arrives Monday at eight o'clock , it 's just the beginning , but companies often spend zero time in integrating talented people . It used to be that we 'd let people take some time to learn the culture of a new organization , but it 's not like that anymore . Our expectations are immediate : ' We 've paid you a lot of money , you doing something useful yet ? ' If the twentieth century was a learning century , then the twenty-first century is a performance century . "  In considering whether job performance is a matter of each person 's innate natural ability or a matter of how well a company trains its new employees , CEOs often place too much weight on the former , Groysberg argues . " Even the best and the brightest can benefit from a nurturing environment , " he says . " You can turn a talented person into a superstar if you combine nature and nurture . "  That said , he adds , in the program there will be much discussion on compensation : short term versus long term , fixed versus variable , and how to disperse compensation fairly among the firm .  Growth Strategies , Risk Management , And Globalization  Other issues of importance to the leader of modern-day financial organizations to be discussed in the program include :  Growth strategy . One key question financial leaders must decide is whether it is better to grow the organization people would be surprised by the batting averages of most institutions , " Groysberg says . " So , so many acquisitions are not successful . "  Risk management . Even a cursory reading of recent headlines shows how vulnerable financial firms can be in this interrelated world , making risk management strategies crucial to success . " We 'll spend time talking about leading through crises and about what we have learned from recent events , " Groysberg says . " We 'll look at how we can deal with it if we have to go through another crisis . Considering what 's happening in Europe , it 's a good time to start doing that . "  Globalization . Financial leaders must realize the increasing importance of doing business not only in New York , London , and Tokyo , but in the emerging markets of India , China , and Brazil as well . " I think many companies are realizing that their track record of going outside their home country is n't great , because , to be completely honest , not that many of someone who works in London , for instance , to attend our program in Mumbai . It will let them be in a different environment and build different relationships . "  About the Author  Carmen Nobel is the senior editor of HBS Working Knowledge .  Post A Comment  Chirag Swamy  Manager Pre-Sales , Animika Studios  I believe that one of the biggest challenges that Financial institutions face today is a ' trust deficit ' . A leader should ideally look at regaining public confidence for his firm and this can be achieved through concentrated , innovative marketing and advertising efforts . The bad PR that they have constantly been subjected to since 2008 needs to be reversed at the earliest .  Zulkani SAHIN  after sale manager , PSA Peugeot Citoren  I think that a very important factor among many is to obtain a cohesion from peers to indicate them the direction to take ( vision , goal ) . What makes the difference is the way how people in an organization have been involved and felt essantial in the strategy will create difficult situation .  Anonymous  Leaders have to fight in many fronts . To cite a few : Financial services are becoming complex and more regulated . Integration of major economies is adding exchange risk considerably . Provison requirements are increasing due to International Banking norms .  Anonymous  Indeed , modern financial institutions have become impatient organisations and the industry 's employment practices are clear evidence of this impatience as mentioned in your article .  Perhaps the fast-moving and ever-demanding environment of financial markets have influenced the industry through time . In your view , what is your thought on solving the imbalance between expectation and results ( that may be the cause of impatience ) in the industry ?  Anonymous  I agree that hiring and staff development is a critical process in financial organisations . A close analysis really confirms that the difference between firms is not so much its assets but its staff .  Ravi Parsi  Director , Kantech Engineers Pvt . Ltd .  The present is very complicated world with greater integration of cultures , different styles of managing in the cross hairs of everybody in the management of organisations especially for financial firms and future will become even more complicated .  So the need for financial firm is more to depend upon to do what it knows to do and encourage the leaders &amp; their teams to stick to there own knitting . This will mean sometime your quarterly numbers will not be what the stock market wants ! ! !  This is the very great challenge in managing financial organisation to remove the focus from quarterly numbers to its main reason for existing in the financial world .  The complicated world will throw up newer ways of doing looking very attractive to make money in a difficult world . The challenge here is not to pressure the teams to take un-calculated risks without understanding the nature to new ways of doing . This is again possible if the focus is not on Joneses making spectacular quarterly numbers by employing to newer ways of doing but to support &amp; encourage the team to learn and consider risks before taking the plunge and supporting them if they indeed ! ! ! !  shantha  Director/Lecturer , Agape International  One of the greatest challenges is the management of emerging risks in a new business paradigm . Some financial institutions , especially in emerging economies , still consider traditional borrowing and lending as their business . For example , identity fraud and hacking have become major risk factors and thus our risk models should also change accordingly . Large investments in " managing new risks " is likely to increase the cost to income ration further .  Suhas Bindu  Consultant , NA  In my opinion , the most important challenge is to prioritize and focus on the business objectives.As a matter of fact , the firms must stay away from the greed of the business and lucrative opportunties without proper exercize . Working on too many fronts in the financial world of random behaviour could hit the firm at a later stage  Johanna Lubahn  Managing Director , Cohen Brown Management Group  I agree with the complexity of managing and leading financial institutions as I work globally in this industry . The other in all areas and fast tracking changes that need to be implemented . Not easy when at the top of the structure but doable as evidenced by some CEO 's who understand the power of their people , know how to engage them and motivate them around the vision  Kapil Kumar Sopory  Company Secretary , SMEC(India) Private Limited  The level of responsibility cast on financial companies is very high as they deal directly with the money of their customers . They have to possess exemplary acumen to ensure their acceptability by acting cleanly . Their misdemeanours come to the fore fast and they can not live through dubious means for long . Responsibility is also cast on them on choosing right borrowers who have got to repay come what may . We need performing assets only and bad debts would come as sharp killers . This holds generally for other organisations too but since a financial firm - a bank for instance - lends its depositors ' money , it is to be ensured that the deposits are not frittered away for these have u8ltimately to be repayed .  Anonymous  The industry has not been lead too fully understand the " threat " of its competition and with insufficient " risk management " processes . Before we can " fix " it the hard truth about the situation needs to be understood and told . We must return to the basics and teach this next generation the true valule of how to evelate and underwrite risk .  Regular Simulation of Stress Testing ( based on very well defined and tough parameters taking care of risk aspects ) by any financial institution especially when the global scenario turns merkier is most important . With sudden change in the external environment and incumbent impact becomes capable of spoiling fortune of any robust financial compainy . Secod comes ' value systems ' which is inculcated by the Leader of the organisation . If both these aspects are there all other becomes subsidiary and could be retrofitted automatically . In developing economies like India if banks could survive the onslaught of 2008 global melt down it is only beause strong prudential norms and compliance . Many privately financial companies meet . This is exacerbated equally by greedy clients looking forward astronomical higher returns not possible under given economic conditions ..