Facebook post says Congress has disproportionate share of ...
http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2011/nov/21/facebook-posts/facebook-post-says-congress-has-disproportionate-s/

brenda jennetta , 70 , of spring hill , fla. , joins a handful of " occupy " protesters in downtown brooksville , fla . we checked a facebook post that charged that members of congress are disproportionately wealthy .  over the past two months , the occupy wall street movement has spread to cities around the country , and those other movements are busy putting out messages that protest against income inequality .  a reader recently sent us an example from facebook , which was an online message credited to occupy d.c. the posting says :  " 1 percent of americans are millionaires . "  " 47 percent of house reps. are millionaires . "  " 56 percent of senators are millionaires . "  " what would the country be like if our representative government was actually representative ? "  the reader asked us to check it out , and we were curious ourselves if the division of wealth between the country as a whole and our elected leaders was quite that stark . so we decided to unpack parts .  " 1 percent of americans are millionaires . "  a millionaire is a person whose net worth is $1 million or more . net worth is cash , home value , stocks , bonds and other property minus any debts owed .  the federal reserve board conducts a survey of consumer finances every three years . its last survey was in 2007 , with an update in 2009 . the left-leaning economic policy institute analyzed that data and determined that the average wealth of the top 1 percent was close to $14 million in 2009 , down from $19.2 million in 2007 ( in part because of a decline in housing values ) . still , many in the top 1 percent clearly were multimillionaires .  a 2011 study by the deloitte center for financial services estimated there are around 10.5 million households in the u.s. in 2011 with net worth of more than $1 million .  that 's around 9 percent of all households , which is far larger than 1 percent .  if you measure how many individuals have incomes of closer to the mark .  the internal revenue service recently released income statistics for 2009 . it found the top 1 percent of the country included people who made adjusted gross income $343,927 and up . but adjusted gross income can leave out some types of income , particularly types of income not subject to tax .  for a fuller pictures , we turned to the nonpartisan tax policy center . it created an economic analysis of total cash income for 2011 , not just taxable or adjusted income . the center found that the top 1 percent in 2011 had an average income of $1.5 million a year . however , some elites made slightly less the a million . the least wealthy of the top 1 percent had cash income of $532,613 .  interesting , but income only does n't define millionaires .  " 47 percent of house reps. are millionaires . 56 percent of senators are millionaires . "  members of the u.s. house of representatives and the senate are paid $174,000 annually , with leadership positions paid slightly more . but many substantial net worth .  members of the house and senate are required to file financial disclosures that include their assets and liabilities , and the nonpartisan center for responsive politics compiles those disclosures .  the representatives and senators are not required to disclose precisely how much they are worth , but they do have to indicate a range of amounts for their assets and liabilities . the center calculates the midpoint between these high and low estimates , then uses that midpoint to rank-order lawmakers from richest to least rich .  according to the center 's most recent analysis , 183 members of the house had a midpoint net worth estimate of at least $1 million . meanwhile , the center calculated that 67 senators had a midpoint net worth estimate of $1 million or higher . these numbers were for the calendar year 2010 .  the wealthiest member of congress was rep. darrell issa , r-calif. , the head of the house oversight and government reform committee . " issa 's minimum estimated net worth in 2010 was $195 million , while his maximum estimated net said in its analysis . the midpoint estimate in that range is $448 million .  rep. alcee hastings , d-fla. , is the least wealthy member of congress . hastings ' liabilities exceed his assets ; the center reported that his minimum estimated net worth is negative $7.3 million while his maximum estimated net worth is negative $2.1 million .  the median net worth of house members was an estimated $756,765 , while the median net worth of a senator was $2.63 million .  so , using these estimates -- and remember , these are only estimates -- 42 percent of house members are millionaires , while 67 percent of senators are millionaires .  our ruling  the facebook posting from occupy d.c. said , " 1 percent of americans are millionaires . 47 percent of house reps. are millionaires . 56 percent of senators are millionaires . " one recent study found that around 9 percent of all u.s. households have net assets of more than $1 million . so the claim on facebook significantly understates the wealth of individuals .  it 's closer if of americans has an average income of $1.5 million . but the relevant figure would be net worth .  as for members of congress , the most recent estimate shows that 42 percent of house members and 67 percent of senators are millionaires in net worth . that means the facebook post is a bit high in its estimate of house millionaires and a bit low in its estimate of senate millionaires .  the numbers support the underlying point of the facebook post -- that members of congress are disproportionately wealthy . but not on the scale suggested . we rate the facebook post half true .