A mine fire near city of Carbondale vexed redevelopment project ...
http://thetimes-tribune.com/news/a-mine-fire-near-city-of-carbondale-vexed-redevelopment-project-construction-1.1237758

A mine fire near city of Carbondale vexed redevelopment project construction  A mine fire raging underground came " very close " to the place where officials hoped to cut it off . On Feb. 9 , 1961 , Carbondale Mayor Frank L. Howard announced that an all-out push would , he hoped , stop the fire before it spread farther .  The stepped-up action came just nine days after a wayward blast showered the area with huge chunks of rock and brought a halt to efforts to contain the fire . The multimillion-dollar urban renewal project called for strip mines to contain the fire and then eradicate it . The fire had raged beneath the city 's west side for nearly 15 years in mines owned by the Carbondale Coal Co. , a subsidiary of the Glenn Alden Co .  The Carbondale Redevelopment Authority had purchased 80 homes in the vast redevelopment area to make way for the project . Strip-mining efforts had begun several weeks before the mayor 's announcement , starting near the A&amp;P supermarket on Brooklyn Street and proceeding toward West street . Drag lines operated from the ground level . At the bottom of the pits , small power shovels and trucks removed the coal .  When officials planned the series of strip-mining cuts , they believed the Brooklyn Street cut was far enough away from the southern and western boundaries of the fire to contain it easily . But by Feb. 8 , officials realized how close the fire had come to the area where they had expected to stop it .  That realization led the mayor to step up efforts . Mining crews drilled holes along the old New York , Ontario &amp; Western Railroad bed , directly behind the A&amp;P supermarket . Temperatures in those holes were among the hottest since the project began , burning up to 1,200 degrees - which meant a change in the blasting schedule . Previously , crews had been able to drill a number of holes , fill them with explosives and blasting caps , and detonate them all at one time . But with temperatures as high as they were , the explosives had to be detonated within three .  The project continued , but not smoothly . In early March , Mr. Howard and the state department of Mines and Mineral Industries shut down operations after a blasting accident damaged buildings and automobiles . Secretary of Mines Lewis Evans lifted his ban about two weeks later .  Mr. Howard would not allow work to resume , however .  " We definitely want some type of assurance as to what you are going to do to guard against another such accident , " he told the mine company .  In late May , work at the bottom of the pits was again halted when a power shovel operator was killed in an earthslide in a pit at a different site in Carbondale Twp . Officials feared the same could happen at the project in the city of Carbondale . Power shovels or trucks could plunge through the surface into the abandoned mines that lay just below the bottom of the pits , they feared . Or the walls of the pits might collapse as the abandoned mines settled . The drag lines continued to operate as  The fire became visible on the surface for the first time on Nov. 17 . Crews unearthed the fire late in the afternoon in a strip trench along Brooklyn Street near the Eighth Avenue crossing of the Delaware &amp; Hudson Railroad . The fire became visible when the rock that separated a top 5-foot vein from a 20-foot second vein collapsed into a long-abandoned tunnel . One observer said the fire seemed to be centered in pillars in the second vein . The rock layer between the two veins also appeared to be on fire , the man said .  Despite a city ordinance prohibiting strip mining after 11 p.m. , Mr. Howard gave permission for around-the-clock efforts to halt the big blaze .  The redevelopment project continued , but the fire and the effort to contain it continued to plague the city of Carbondale for years .  CHERYL A. KASHUBA is a freelance writer specializing in local history . Visit her at scrantonhistory.com . Contact the writer : **30;0;TOOLONG  We welcome user discussion on our site , under the following guidelines :  To comment verified DISQUS account or social network ID . Sign up here .  Comments in violation of the rules will be denied , and repeat violators will be banned . Please help police the community by flagging offensive comments for our moderators to review . By posting a comment , you agree to our full terms and conditions . Click here to read terms and conditions .