Angelica Schwall-DÅren is the minister for federal affairs, Europe ...
http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2011/11/27/are-germany-and-france-drifting-apart/problems-of-internal-politics-9

Problems of Internal Politics  Angelica Schwall-D ? ren is the minister for federal affairs , Europe and media of North Rhine Westphalia , Germany 's most populous state .  November 27 , 2011  French and German interests in the current crisis have been convergent for as long as their interest rates were more or less convergent . This is now changing , as investors are questioning France 's solvency and demanding higher rates . Germany should strive to prevent even the most remote risk of a French downgrade , which would jeopardize the euro zone 's stability more than sovereign refinancing by the European Central Bank ever could . However , the German government is currently more concerned with its own domestic popularity and internal tensions , blind to the French president 's need for some success during a difficult electoral campaign and -- more regrettably -- blind to the economic and political needs of both the euro zone and the wider European Union .  For Germany , the role of the European Central Bank has become a question of principle rather than been differences between France and Germany throughout the crisis -- most evident in the disputes over automatic sanctions , economic governance and eurobonds . This is nothing new : it has been the ability to bridge the differences between the two nations that historically characterised the Franco-German tandem as the engine of European integration . However , the current situation is bringing this engine to its limits . While Nicolas Sarkozy 's chances of re-election are waning with the speculation over a downgrade , Angela Merkel risks a revolt within her own party should she agree to any measures that might impose costs on German taxpayers or diverge from German economic dogmatism , especially the mantra of central bank independence . From the beginning of this crisis , the involvement of the European Central Bank has been a sore point for Germany . It has become a question of principle rather than a question of economic reasoning .  To outsiders this may be astonishing , considering the ramifications it may have . To cling to economic principles that predate monetary union and the evident market failures of the past years possible fallout of a French downgrade . But to discuss alternatives to Germany 's central banking dogmatism is taboo for Germany 's right , regardless of advice from Nobel laureates and German economists .  Merkel is primarily playing to her ( national ) audience , much in the same way that Sarkozy is . This is , in other words , not a stand-off between nations but between schools of thought and political actors , guided by their needs . Unfortunately , as is so often the case , the power to persist may be stronger on the side that is less needy : in other words , Merkel is in a better negotiating position than Sarkozy . One can only hope that she gives in to economic reason rather than to dogmatism.