John Stuart Mill, Dead Thinker of the Year
http://foreignpolicy.com/2011/11/28/john-stuart-mill-dead-thinker-of-the-year/

By Robert D. KaplanRobert D. Kaplan is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and the author of The Revenge of Geography : What the Map Tells Us About Coming Conflicts and the Battle Against Fate .  November 28 , 2011  Fundamentally , the past year has been about grappling with the most profound question in political philosophy : how to create legitimate central authority . In one Arab country after another -- Tunisia , Egypt , Libya , Yemen , Syria -- populations have taken to the streets to demand the downfall of their rulers , even as it is unclear what will follow in their wake .  And the question applies not only to the Arab world . It is unclear , for example , whether Iran 's quasi-clerical system of revolutionary rule has a long-term future , given the intense infighting within the regime and the intense dislike it stirs within significant swaths of the population . Can China 's one-party system of control last indefinitely ? Can Burma 's ? Whereas the United States basically inherited drama over more than two centuries has been about limiting central authority , the challenge in too many other places is the opposite : how to erect responsive government in the first place .  No thinker has tackled these questions as painstakingly and as eloquently as the 19th-century English philosopher John Stuart Mill , which is why he is such an appropriate guide for these complicated times . Mill asserts , in On Liberty , and especially in Considerations on Representative Government , that while democratic government is surely to be preferred in theory , it is incredibly problematic in its particulars . This , of course , is part of Mill 's larger exploration of liberty , and why ultimately the only justification a government has to curtail that liberty is when a person 's behavior impinges on the rights of others . Despotism may work better in some instances , if only as a temporary measure , he writes ; democracy is not suited for each and every society during significant periods of its development . I am crudely simplifying Mill , who is so clear while being " Progress includes Order , " Mill writes in Considerations , " but Order does not include Progress . " Tyranny may be the political building block of all human societies , but if they do n't get beyond tyranny , the result is moral chaos and stagnation . Middle Eastern despots of our day too often supplied only Order ; Asian ones have brought Progress , too . Thus China 's rulers , who must retire at a certain point , who bring technical expertise to their rule , and who govern in a collegial style , are much to be preferred over the North African variety , to say nothing of those in Syria or Yemen . Yet even in those cases , the prospect of a collapse of central authority indicates that , pace Mill , there may be no alternative to some sort of dictatorship , at least in the very short term .  Mill 's philosophy actually builds on that of his 17th-century compatriot , Thomas Hobbes , another thinker all too relevant for our times . Hobbes is often regarded as a preacher of . He stared into the abyss of anarchy and realized there was , indeed , a solution that could lead to order and progress . That solution was the state . Hobbes extols the moral benefits of fear and sees violent anarchy as the chief threat to society . For Hobbes -- best known for observing that the lives of men are " nasty , brutish , and short " -- fear of violent death is the cornerstone of enlightened self-interest . By establishing a state , men replace the fear of violent death with the fear that only those who break the law need face . So while Hobbes made the case for central authority , Mill built on him to help us understand how humanity must get beyond mere authority in order to erect a liberal regime .  Such concepts are sometimes difficult to grasp for today 's urban middle class , which has long since lost any contact with man 's natural condition . But the horrific violence of a disintegrating Iraq , or this year 's fears of state collapse in places such as Yemen and 's original state . In fact , as more and more nondemocratic systems find it harder and harder to survive in this age of instant electronic communications , Mill and Hobbes will top the dead thinkers list for years to come . Iraq , with its mixture of democracy , creeping authoritarianism , and anarchy , is a place made for Mill and Hobbes , while Afghanistan is pure Hobbes . Imagine the relevance of Hobbes in the event of a regime collapse in North Korea ; or of Mill as Egypt struggles for years to transform a military dictatorship into a civil democracy . These men may be long dead , but their philosophy is a sure guide to today 's headlines . The need for order -- even as order must be made free from tyranny -- is precisely the issue that hangs over the Greater Middle East .