Chart of the day, Morgan Stanley bailout edition
http://blogs.reuters.com/felix-salmon/2011/11/28/chart-of-the-day-morgan-stanley-bailout-edition/

tags :  ladies and gentlemen , this is what a lender of last resort looks like . what you 're looking at here are three lines . the black line is morgan stanley 's market capitalization , which tends to hover in the $40 billion range but which fell as low as $9.8 billion in november 2008 . the orange line is the amount that morgan stanley owed to the federal reserve on any given day -- an amount which peaked at $107 billion on september 29 , 2008 . and the red line is the ratio between the two : morgan stanley 's debt to the federal reserve , expressed as a percentage of its market value . that ratio , it turns out , peaked at some point in october , at somewhere north of 750% .  many congratulations are due to bloomberg , for extracting this information from the fed after a long and arduous fight . it could n't have come at a timelier moment : if the ecb wants to avert a liquidity crisis , charts like this give a go , and how quickly it might have to act .  on september 16 , 2008 , morgan stanley owed $21.5 billion to the fed . the next day , that number doubled , to $40.5 billion . and eight working days later , on the 29th , the bank 's total borrowings from the fed reached $107 billion . the fed did n't blink : it kept on lending , as much as it could , to any bank which needed the money , because , in a crisis , that 's its job .  the fed likes to say that it was n't taking much if any credit risk here : that all its lending was fully collateralized , etc etc . but it 's really hard to look at that red line and have a huge amount of confidence that the fed was always certain to get its money back . still , this is what lenders of last resort do . and this is what the ecb is most emphatically not doing . i find it very hard to imagine the ecb lending some random of keeping liquidity flowing .  and it 's frankly ridiculous that it 's taken this long for this information to be made public . we 're now fully ten months past the point at which the financial crisis inquiry commission 's final report was published ; this data would have been extremely useful to them and to all of the rest of us trying to get a grip on what was going on at the height of the crisis . the fed 's argument against publishing the data was that it " would create a stigma " , and make it less likely that banks would tap similar facilities in future . but i can assure you that at the height of the crisis , the last thing on morgan stanley 's mind was the worry that its borrowings might be made public three years later . when you need the money , and the fed is throwing its windows wide open , you do n't look that kind of gift horse in the mouth .  every time the fed fights tooth and nail to prevent certain information from certain feeling of anticlimax : we get the information , and ask what on earth is so dangerous about normal people knowing it . the fed is one of the most vital and least trusted institutions in america , and there 's a reason why a book called end the fed is still riding high in the amazon charts , more than two years after it was published . if the fed wants to get americans back on its side -- and it needs to get americans back on its side -- then it will have to stop fighting these silly battles against transparency . especially since the release of this data has a lot to teach the fed 's counterparts in frankfurt .