IATA found in breach of regulations over use of PaxIS, Europe data ...
http://www.tnooz.com/article/iata-found-in-breach-of-regulations-over-use-of-paxis-europe-data-to-be-removed/

got a hot tip ? tell us about it !  iata found in breach of regulations over use of paxis , europe data to be removed  a rather big and messy storm of a story has taken another twist in europe after iata was found in breach of flight data regulations on its paxis product .  the global airline representative body was informed by the european commission on november 25 ( but details and confirmation have only emerged this week ) that it had breached the crs code of conduct and all european travel agent data must be removed from the paxis tool .  paxis is a product developed by iata to provide airline passenger market intelligence and real-time data , covering ticket information on over 400 airlines and captured using the the billing and settlement plan ( bsp ) .  included in the data is passenger and ticket information from agencies such as fare value , point of origin , connection and destination airport , category or class or seat , etc .  the system , however , rivals the by the gdss , a tool which essentially does the same thing , allowing for in-depth forecasting , planning and revenue management and , once again , uses data from agents .  but herein lies the problem and source of the latest shenanigans .  midt , by virtue of it being run by the gdss , has always come under the auspices of the european code of conduct which regulates the role and operations of amadeus , travelport and sabre . this meant that agencies needed to give the gdss permission to use the data within the system .  iata did not have to ask permission when it launched paxis , namely because it is n't a gds and is using the data from within its own bsp system .  the european commission has now decided otherwise .  the latest twist , however , ends ( for the time beging ) what has been a two-year investigation by european officials into whether paxis ( and , by extension , iata ) should be included in the gds code of conduct , a probe which started in with an additional complaint from some agencies in september 2009 .  following the ec decision in november , iata has been told to remove data relating to all passengers from european travel agents .  iata still claims the volume of tickets in the paxis database will not be reduced and geographical identification of european ticket sales will remain in the system . the detailed passenger information will be out .  an official says :  " we continue to believe that the european crs code of conduct should not apply to iata ( a trade association ) or to its paxis product ( which derives its data through the bsp system ) .  " iata is now working with the european commission to clarify iata 's views . obviously , iata will comply with all regulations in the jurisdictions within which it operates . iata is acting in good faith and currently exploring what steps need to be taken for compliance in the short-term .  " in the longer-term we are looking to solutions that will allow paxis to be restored to its full capability . " iata remains committed to providing a competitive option to midt data so that the market for such products is not monopolized by gdss . "  kevin may is a senior editor and one of the co-founders at tnooz . he was previously editor of uk-based magazine travolution and web editor of media week uk from 2003 to 2005 .  he has worked in regional newspapers ( essex enquirer ) and started his career in journalism at the police gazette at new scotland yard in london . he has a degree in criminology , a postgraduate diploma in magazine journalism and will be publishing his first book - a biography about electronic band , depeche mode - soon .  there is an interesting argument here . iata may not be subject to european commission ( ec ) rules . but that was not a battle that either of them have chosen to undertake and probably wisely so .  iata as a supra-national organization has certain rights and is excempt from certain jurisdictions and sets of rules .  it is rather interesting that the complaints were filed in some form or battle with iata over the collection and provision of this data . iata 's paxis data is comparable to arc 's ticketing data in the usa . in my viewi it is of higher quality than midt data when it incorporates bsp ticketing data . arc 's data provides much closer views of the market than that from the gdss . therefore one has to think the data is better quality .  the cost for all of them -- midt or paxis is still outrageous .  if the ec would like to do something more formal -- they should be investigating why after more than 20 years iata still has not permitted bsp approved pan european ticketing by travel agents .  if the european commission is serious about competition in the travel marketplace , it needs to up its game in its compliance with various eu based directives which will improve the ability of sellers in travel to sell into the common market .