Public Talk to Discuss History of Animals
http://ucrtoday.ucr.edu/19920

thure cerling is a distinguished professor of geology and geophysics at the university of utah . photo credit : cerling lab , university of utah .  riverside , calif. -- thure cerling , a pioneer in using isotope records of bones and teeth and a leading expert in the evolution of modern landscapes , including modern mammals and their associated grassland ecologies , will give the university of california , riverside 's first science lecture of 2014 on wednesday , jan. 22 .  admission and parking at unex are free of charge for lecture attendees .  cerling , a distinguished professor of geology and geophysics at the university of utah , studies earth surface geochemistry processes and the geological record of ecological change . his research includes the isotope physiology and diets of modern mammals as well as the history of diets of different mammalian lineages extending over millions of years . along with a colleague , he showed that the composition of human hair reflects the region where a person lives .  " hair records the history of diet , geography , said . " in this talk i will explore some of the applications of natural variations in the stable isotopes of hair and show how it can be used in wildlife ecology and forensics . an advantage of using hair is that it is a passive recorder , and life history is preserved without active observation of activities . "  global climate and environmental change , and the associated degradation of ecosystems , together form the biggest issue facing society today . ucr 's edge institute aims to examine life in this changing environment , focusing on carbon ( molecules to organisms ) , nutrients , and water at various temporal and spatial scales . it brings together ucr scientists from the biological , chemical , and physical sciences to examine particular questions or issues .  directing the institute will be the holder of the wilbur w. mayhew chair , recently endowed by anonymous donors who are passionate about the ecology of the southwest . their $1.5 million gift honors mayhew , a pioneering ecologist , ucr faculty member and co-founder of the uc natural reserves system . his california for future generations of scientists and students . these habitats are invaluable today as laboratories of the natural world .  e-mail subscription  experts on demand  uc riverside has dozens of experts in virtually every field you can imagine .  whether it 's the latest fad in hollywood , the latest must-have gadget or the latest row in washington , ucr has a vast pool of staff and faculty who can present a unique view right now .  these interactions can take place in person , electronically , through a campus isdn line , or even via video through our digital production studio , which can put a ucr expert on the air anywhere in the world through at&amp;t 's regional fiber network hub .  ucr is ready to help you find the expertise you need to get the story .  footer  the university of california , riverside ( www.ucr.edu ) is a doctoral research university , a living laboratory for groundbreaking exploration of issues critical to inland southern california , the state and communities around the world . reflecting california 's diverse the campus opened a medical school in 2013 and has reached the heart of the coachella valley by way of the ucr palm desert center . the campus has an annual statewide economic impact of more than $1 billion . a broadcast studio with fiber cable to the at&amp;t hollywood hub is available for live or taped interviews . ucr also has isdn for radio interviews . to learn more , call ( 951 ) ucr-news.