OUYA Founding Team Member And VP Of Product Development ...
http://techcrunch.com/2014/01/15/ouya-founding-team-member-and-vp-of-product-development-departs/

ouya founding team member and vp of product development departs  0  one of ouya 's founding members , muffi ghadiali , has left the company , techcrunch has learned . ghadiali was instrumental in helping launch the ouya on kickstarter and to the consumer market , and has previous experience working for lab126 ( amazon 's hush-hush projects division , which birthed the kindle ) , hp and synaptics . a source familiar with ghadiali 's work told us he was instrumental in the creation of ouya as a viable consumer product , and one of the most experienced ce experts on the team .  ghadiali led key teams at ouya , including those involved in industrial and product design of the hardware ; mechanical , electrical and rf engineering , and firmware development . in his past careers , he was responsible for products such as the hp touchsmart and media center pc devices , which made him particularly well suited to his role at ouya . at amazon , he was a product manager for kindle hardware .  ouya provided the  ouya is focusing more on the next phase of the business and product development . we 've made some recent changes including the departure of muffi ghadiali who was invaluable during the launch of ouya . as is to be expected , ouya is an ever-changing business , and as we continue to grow our needs shift accordingly .  another side of the story is the reportedly poor performance of the ouya in the consumer market , however . early developer sales numbers indicate that software is n't faring very well on the platform ( though we have n't seen updated figures in a while ) , and pre-holiday sales with drastic price reductions ( which were admittedly temporary ) do n't bode well for buyer interest in hardware , either . a well-placed source tells techcrunch that the decision to leave ouya was ghadiali 's own , not the company 's .  ouya definitely seems to be occupying rocky waters at the moment , but it also says it 's excited about the next phase of its " business and product development . " we 'll stay unfortunate to see key early talent making an exit .  0  crunchbase  overviewouya is a new kind of game console for the television that brings together an open development experience -- where any creator can publish a game to the living room -- with an accessible and affordable console at $99 , and where all games are free to try . ouya supports both the downloading and streaming of entertainment content in beautiful 1080p hd quality . ouya was envisioned by founder and ceo julie ...  overviewkickstarter is the world 's largest funding platform for creative projects . every week , tens of thousands of people pledge millions of dollars to projects from the worlds of music , film , art , technology , design , games , fashion , food , publishing , and other creative fields . since its launch on april 28th , 2009 , more than five million people have pledged more than $900 million to projects by creators who ...