The trials, trail of Northern Paiutes
http://www.reviewjournal.com/news/trials-trail-northern-paiutes

the trials , trail of northern paiutes  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  the striking rock formation in a publicly closed section of pyramid lake today still shows " stone mother " looking to the west with an empty baby basket at her feet . ( courtesy travelnevada )  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  pyramid lake remains a holy place to indian people everywhere . it even was the stand-in for the sea of galilee in the biblical movie " the greatest story ever told . " ( courtesy travelnevada )  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  pyramid lake remains a holy place to indian people everywhere . it even was the stand-in for the sea of galilee in the biblical movie " the greatest story ever told . " ( courtesy travelnevada )  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  pyramid lake , in nixon , nev. , about an hour north of reno , is seen on wednesday , jan. 22 , 2014 . ( cathleen allison/las vegas review-journal )  the trials and visitors center , in nixon , nev. , features the history and culture of the paiute tribe . the unique stone structure , about an hour northeast of reno , is seen on wednesday , jan. 22 , 2014 . ( cathleen allison/las vegas review-journal )  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  pyramid lake , in nixon , nev. , about an hour north of reno , is seen on wednesday , jan. 22 , 2014 . ( cathleen allison/las vegas review-journal )  the trials , trail of northern paiutes  pyramid lake , in nixon , nev. , about an hour north of reno , is seen on wednesday , jan. 22 , 2014 . ( cathleen allison/las vegas review-journal )  editor 's note : nevada 150 is a yearlong series highlighting the people , places and things that make up the history of the state .  pyramid lake  in the beginning , there was man and he was lonely .  woman was aware of man 's existence and searched through the lands that became nevada until she found him . him for five days . each night they drew closer . then they married and had many children .  some of their children were good , and others were very bad . man sent the bad children to the west . woman began weeping for her lost children . her tears created pyramid lake . the striking rock formation in a publicly closed section of pyramid lake still shows " stone mother " looking to the west with an empty baby basket at her feet .  so that is how history began , at least in the creation story of the northern paiute at pyramid lake , nevada 's largest native tribe . other tribes have different creation stories , but pyramid lake remains a holy place to american indian people everywhere . it even was the stand-in for the sea of galilee in the biblical movie " the greatest story ever told . "  creating a unified history of nevada 's tribes is impossible since they had no written languages and were widely splintered , living in small groups throughout a state that historically fluctuated between wet ancient lake lahontan , a vast lake over much of northwestern nevada .  among the northern paiute , or " numa , " there are 23 tribal bands . they have 13 dialects and varying stories . about 45,000 residents , or 1.6 percent of the state 's population , is native american . about 8,800 live on reservations , including 1,735 at the 725-square-mile pyramid lake reservation .  early tribes  carbon dating of petroglyphs near pyramid lake put people in nevada between 11,000 and 14,800 years ago . these are the oldest petroglyphs in north america , according to state archaeologist gene hattori .  a human cranium at pyramid lake was dated back 9,600 years . artifacts found in southern nevada date back 13,000 years and were associated with the hunting of ice age animals , hattori added .  he said today 's numa are likely descendants of people who displaced earlier tribes and have resided in nevada for 500 to 1,000 years . there are oral histories of the paiutes conquering earlier natives , he said . to the winners , regardless of their  the first whites to invade paiute country were mountain men , fur trappers and explorers like jedediah smith in 1826 and peter skene ogden in 1828 .  ogden 's hudson bay company trapped 4,000 beaver in the humboldt river . that decimated the beaver population in nevada for generations . it was only the beginning .  by may 1860 , the trickle of white settlers turned into a river . miners in virginia city were burning off pinyon pines that natives used for their nuts . anglo ranchers were developing prime agricultural lands near genoa .  tensions boiled over .  that month , brothers oscar and james williams , traders at williams station just west of current day fallon , kidnapped two 12-year-old paiute girls , raped them and threw them into a hole under their cabin .  the numa searched in vain for the girls until a tribal member heard them scream when he went to the station to trade his horse . the girls ' father was notified . the paiutes shot one man outside the station and burned the cabin holding the from virginia city and carson city , demanded revenge . a militia of 105 volunteers was organized . the militia pursued the numa north up the truckee river to near present-day nixon .  a massacre followed -- a massacre of whites .  within three days , the numa killed 76 militia members . the rest retreated to virginia city and carson city . the greatest battle between american indians and white settlers in nevada 's history had ended in victory for the tribe .  within a few days , however , more than 200 army soldiers and 500 volunteers banded in california . they marched to nevada and within a month defeated the tribal people . the soldiers claimed they killed 160 numa and lost only two of their own . the paiute claimed they lost four .  soldiers quickly constructed fort churchill on the plains east of carson city . for the next nine years , troops patrolled northern nevada to protect settlers from the numa . it was n't necessary . resistance had already ended .  racism and resentment  american indians eventually were anglo ranchers , working on lands where they roamed without restraint for thousands of years . even today , the anger of some natives is felt .  witness the lake tahoe summit in 2010 .  native american elder charles walker sr. demanded that senate majority leader harry reid , d-nev. , and two other senators return lake tahoe -- the traditional summer home of the washoe -- to tribal control .  clearly embarrassed by his demands before a crowd of hundreds , reid 's friend john lee , now the north las vegas mayor , whispered in walker 's ear to end his talk . walker persisted , and the crowd got an idea of the tribe 's resentment .  the ultimate slight may have been the u.s. decision to deny american indians citizenship and the right to vote until 1924 -- after white men , black men and women . the federal law prohibiting tribal people from buying alcohol was not repealed until 1953 .  until that decade , a 6 p.m. whistle in gardnerville was a sign for all american indians to leave gardnerville .  reno-sparks indian colony chairman arlan melendez spoke of nevada 's history of sundown laws in an interview with indian country today in 2011 .  " reno was a very racist place , but over the years it 's become more diversified as more hispanic people moved into the area , " melendez said . " sadly , that 's not the case in many rural communities where there 's still a lot of good old boy attitudes . "  washoe county paiute dewey sampson in 1938 was the first american indian elected to the nevada legislature . he served one session .  former assembly speaker john oceguera is an enrolled member of the walker river paiute tribe in schurz . he is the highest-ranking american indian to serve in nevada state government .  during his legislative career , oceguera said tribal members would occasionally call on him for bills , specifically those to ensure natives served on state boards and commissions . but mainly they were concerned with good business legislation , he said .  he acknowledges that some anger still exists among natives sovereignty largely had been taken away , " he said . " we were promised land and sovereignty , but eventually those lands were not the best lands . is there resentment ? maybe a little . "  comment section guidelines  the below comment section contains thoughts and opinions from users that in no way represent the views of the las vegas review-journal or gatehouse media . this public platform is intended to provide a forum for users of reviewjournal.com to share ideas , express thoughtful opinions and carry the conversation beyond the article . users must follow the guidelines under our commenting policy and are encouraged to use the moderation tools to help maintain civility and keep discussions on topic .