Trolling the Unheard Depths of Spotify with Forgotify
http://motherboard.vice.com/blog/trolling-the-unheard-depths-of-spotify-with-forgotify

the vice channels  trolling the unheard depths of spotify with forgotify  written by  thor benson  february 1 , 2014 // 04:20 pm est  copy this url  image : romanovsky &amp; phillips/valarie santagto  the founders of forgotify are embarking on a project that , if successful , is doomed to self-destruct . their spotify-based program plays you the songs on the music streaming site that have never been listened to ... ever . that 's it . " there was an article floating around early last december that mentioned the crazy stat that four million songs had n't even been listened to . co-founder lane jordan found it and sent it my way with the seeds of the idea , " fellow co-founder nate gagnon told me .  jordan discovered that 20 percent of spotify 's library had never been heard -- not even once . he brought on his friends j. hausmann and nate gagnon to help with a project that would put a spotlight on those unsung heroes of music . forgotify scans spotify 's api for songs in the library to be heard . the rest is up to curious listeners .  the first song i heard when i loaded up forgotify was " trouble in paradise " by romanovsky &amp; phillips . the song starts , " this is the story of two gay lovers . " needless to say , the songs people will encounter when loading up forgotify will be obscure and often times ridiculous . the song that followed romanovsky &amp; phillips was a czech lute gospel of sorts .  a lot of the music one will find when experiencing forgotify is older -- at least a couple decades old . it make sense . most newer music at least gets a few plays from friends of the bands , or the bands themselves . so forgotify is mostly an ode to the lost songs of aspiring bands and ensembles of the past .  the temporal beauty of forgotify is its fleeting existence . " if it 's successful , it shuts itself down , " gagnon said . " we heard somewhere that it would take 200,000 people listening for songs -- which makes it sound more attainable than we thought . " at the very least that lute gospel song and the romanovsky &amp; phillips number have exited the forgotify realm .  the people behind forgotify are an ensemble of artists themselves . graphic design , app development , and copywriting are among the group 's collective skill sets . gagnon told me he 's working on a project to " launch a big anti-violence project in chicago over the next few months . " he also noted that he did n't get invested in the project because of being part of an unknown music group , like those he helps expose .