Kelly Blazek returns her 2013 Communicator of the Year Award after ...
http://www.cleveland.com/business/index.ssf/2014/03/kelly_blazek_returns_her_2013_communicator_of_the_year_award_after_social_media_backlash.html

favorite schools  favorite teams  kelly blazek returns her 2013 communicator of the year award after social media backlash  screen shot 2014-03-05 at 7.59.49 am.png  stories about kelly blazek and diana mekota , including this opinion piece from cnn.com , generated wide discussion on news sites and across the internet about networking protocol and social media . the backlash also prompted the cleveland chapter of the international association of business communicators to revoke blazek 's 2013 communicator of the year award . ( screen grab from cnn.com )  earlier plain dealer stories :  the chapter 's website has now replaced its story about blazek winning the award with a statement saying : " the iabc cleveland chapter board of directors and kelly blazek have mutually agreed that she will return the chapter 's 2013 communicator of the year award . the decision was made in the best interest of iabc , its members , and its mission . "  " ms. blazek , who is not an iabc member , agrees she will not use the communicator of the year designation members of the cleveland chapter . " it continues , " iabc remains committed to providing professional communicators with the very best in content , community and professional-development opportunities . "  blazek , who has pulled down her twitter and linkedin accounts and erased her blog , could not be reached for comment wednesday .  blazek had a long-standing policy of not accepting invitations from those she does not personally know . but when mekota and others went public with blazek 's emails denying their requests to connect , cleveland 's close-knit marketing communications committee expressed outrage and concern that blazek 's email would reflect badly on cleveland and discourage millennials from moving here .  iabc cleveland named blazek its communicator of the year for her hobby of compiling job openings in the marketing , public relations , digital communications , media , journalism , graphics , and nonprofit management positions throughout northeast ohio . she distributed her cleveland job bank listserv to more than 7,300 subscribers .  " blazek is not just a headhunter or a recruiter , but a senior communications executive who enjoys helping a statement announcing the award . it noted that " her listserv is one of the largest individually produced employment compilations in the country within the marketing and communications field . "  " i 've always been a passionate advocate for keeping talent in ne ohio , and we have so much of it in the region , " blazek was quoted as telling attendees at the iabc recognition event . " i want my subscribers to feel like everyone is my little sister or brother , and i 'm looking out for them . "  but even though the sentiment on social media widely favored mekota , others pointed out that the vicious reaction to blazek overshadowed what she had done .  " i stand four square in support of kelly blazek , " said terry novak , a local consultant in marketing and sales . " she has been selfless in her efforts to help people in the sales/marketing , pr , and media fields find leads for jobs in northeast ohio for a long time . she tells the truth and gets excoriated ... go an award from the pr association and the sales and marketing association for assisting and giving a boost to job seekers , " he added .  " i spent almost 30 years working in the media industry , some time with advertising agencies , but mostly in the magazine publishing industries . i also worked in the human resources field , both public and private , so i kind of know how important it is to have a source like kelly blazek when looking for a new position , " novak said . " kelly may have taken a wrong step in her answer to one or two of her plaintiffs , but her overall assistance to many folks ca n't be denied . "  nevertheless , parody twitter accounts sprouted up , including " krabby blazek " ( @krabbyb ) and " the other neo job bank " ( @otherneojobbank ) , with the tagline : " oh wait , there is one . and it 's run by a couple of millennials . "  at least one person tried to create a fake linkedin account as using catch-phrases from her rejection emails .  " fake and/or parody accounts are a breach of our user agreement , " said doug madey , corporate communications manager for linkedin , via email . " when we become aware of them , we take appropriate action . in this specific case , the account you referenced in your note has been removed . "  another kelly blazek in wisconsin has added the following line under her linkedin profile : " please note that i am not the same kelly blazek in the news who ran the cleveland job bank . "  follow us  cleveland.com is powered by plain dealer publishing co. and northeast ohio media group . all rights reserved ( about us ) . the material on this site may not be reproduced , distributed , transmitted , cached or otherwise used , except with the prior written permission of northeast ohio media group llc.