How BitTorrent Rewrote The Rules Of The Internet
http://www.fastcompany.com/3026852/lessons-learned/how-bittorrent-rewrote-the-rules-of-the-internet

To understand why , we have to start in 2008 . The decision of whether or not to allow Internet providers to favor some forms of traffic over others -- also known as net neutrality -- was beginning to bubble up in Washington . Some providers started blocking forms of web traffic -- it 's the best they can do to deal with the insane demand for transfers they get in those peak hours of 7 p.m. to 11 p.m .  " The rationale was that ( all the traffic ) was degrading the combined experience of all their users and therefore this was justified , " Klinker says , " and that struck at the core of an open Internet . "  Eric Klinker  BitTorrent was a rock between several hard places : the Internet providers , the lawmakers , and the users hungry for download speeds . But they did n't have the conventional resources for getting things done in Washington . They only had 23 employees . They had no government affairs office , no avenue for lobbying legislation . But game , who were asking themselves a few important questions :  What if there was a way to solve the traffic jam without legislation ?  And what if the solution were a technological one ?  That solution was the Micro Transport Protocol -- a new way of organizing the Internet traffic .  Micro Transport Protocol , or uTP for short , is a way of allowing traffic to re-arrange itself so things do n't get so jam-packed . It 's like when you hack your commute by working for a few hours from home before taking to the bumper-to-bumper freeway or cheek-to-jowl subway : you wait to make your move until the coaster is clearer . Rather than having BitTorrent shoulder more of its way into bandwidth during peak hours , uTP re-arranges to a later time .  This stands in contrast to TCP/IP , an older , less agile protocol . When you 're on TCP/IP , the network hums along until a data starts failing to reach its destination . Only then does it signal that the Internet connection is congested .  " waiting to slow down until you 've hit your first pedestrian , " Klinker says . " At the end of the day , TCP is n't a particularly intelligent method ; it 's designed to see damage on the traffic and then get out of the way . uTP is designed to sense that damage is about to happen and then get out of the way . "  Let 's say you get home from work and want to watch House of Cards on Netflix or call your cousin on Skype . Under uTP , any BitTorrent transfers you have going on in the background will politely wait for your streaming to be finished before they jump in . Then , in the uncrowded hours of the late night , uTP lets your torrenting get going , soaking up all that suddenly spare bandwidth . Now that uTP is used for 80% of BitTorrent transfers , traffic no longer peaks in that 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. time slot . This is also why the monthly userbase has grown from 60 million in 2008 to 170 million today -- down .  To Klinker , The uTP is a win-win-win . It 's allowed BitTorrent to get even bigger while lessening its presence at peak hours . It 's a win for Internet providers because they get more value from the existing investment of their network . It 's a win for users because they do n't want their downloads and uploads crowding into crowded hours .  Together , uTP feels like a lesson for the ongoing net neutrality debate .  " It 's the best example we have of technology being used to solve what is perceived to be a policy problem , " Klinker says . " Especially in the light of the Internet as a global phenomenon , there 's no single regulatory body for the Internet and hopefully there wo n't be . It 's only through the technology that the Internet 's rules are written . "  Add New Comment  0Comments  The path to innovation is rarely smooth . Lessons Learned will take you over the stumbling blocks that some of our Most Innovative Companies have faced on their journeys .