By hiring a climate disinformer, Nate Silver undermines his entire ...
http://www.dailykos.com/story/2014/3/23/1286213/-By-hiring-a-climate-disinformer-Nate-Silver-undermines-his-entire-premise-of-data-driven-journalism

nate silver claims that his new blog is a data journalism organization . silver is a numbers guy , and because his analyses of political polls proved more accurate than those made by the often inept traditional media competition , he has become celebrated as a genius , if not quite a shaman . how ironic , then , that with over 97 percent of the 11,944 peer-reviewed studies of " global climate change " or " global warming " between 1991-2011 endorsing the consensus on anthropogenic global warming , with almost every scientific society or association long before having concurred on the consensus , and with the u.s. national academies of science and the british royal society now saying that the consensus is more certain than ever , silver would hire as one of his science writers the egregious purveyor of disinformation on climate change , roger pielke , jr . and the worst part about it , given silver 's reputation as a statistics guy , is that pielke often is criticized for butchering statistics and data analysis .  " given nate 's professed to see him hire for his new venture an individual who has displayed a pattern of sloppiness when it comes to the analysis of climate data , " said top climate scientist michael mann via email . pointing to a chapter in silver 's recent book that addresses climate change ( for which mann was interviewed ) he adds , " sadly , this is n't the first time nate has been led astray when it comes to dealing with the science of climate change . "  after having been interviewed by silver for that book , and despite obviously liking silver , personally , when mann read the result , he wrote an excoriating critique that should be read in its entirety .  much more below the fold .  among the many lowlights :  as a result , nate 's chapter on climate change ( chapter 12 : " a climate of healthy skepticism " ) is marred by straw man claims that do n't stand up to scrutiny . these include the assertion that ( a ) climate scientist james hansen 's famous 1988 predictions ( b ) " the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) settles on just one forecast that is endorsed by the entire group " ( pure nonsense -- even the most casual reading of the ipcc reports reveals that great care taken to emphasize the non-trivial spreadamong model predictions , and to denote regions where there is substantial disagreement between the projections from different models ) and that ( c ) " relatively little is understood " about the el nino cycle ( here i imagine that nate might have misinterpreted our own discussion about the matter ; i explained in our discussion that there are still open questions about how climate change will influence the el nino phenomenon -- but that hardly means that we know " relatively little " about the phenomenon itself ! in fact , we know quite a bit about it ) . finally , and perhaps most troubling ( d ) while nate 's chapter title explicitly acknowledges the importance of distinguishing " signal " from " noise " , and nate does gives this topic some lip service , he repeatedly falls ( the noise ) can tell us something about predictions of global warming trends ( the signal ) . they ca n't -- they really ca n't .  nate 's view of uncertainty , and its implications for climate model predictions , is particularly misguided . he asserts that the projections of the ipcc forecasts have been " too aggressive " , but that is simply wrong . it neglects that in many cases , e.g. as regards the alarming rate of arctic sea ice decline ( we saw a new record low set just weeks ago ) , the climate models have been far too cautious ; we are decades ahead of schedule relative to what the models predicted . uncertainty cuts both ways , and in many respects -- be it the rapid decline in arctic sea ice , or the melting of the ice sheets -- it is cutting against us . uncertainty , as many economists recognize , is thus a reason for action , not inaction ! i 'm surprised someone as sharp as nate just does n't appear to get that .  and gore , and deriding his cherry-picking and misrepresenting mann 's own interview statements for the purpose of promoting a false narrative :  most disappointing to me of all was the false equivalence that nate draws between the scientific community 's efforts to fight back against intentional distortions and attacks by an industry-funded attack machine , and the efforts of that attack machine itself . he characterizes this simply as a battle between " consensus " scientists and " skeptical " individuals , as if we 're talking about two worthy adversaries in a battle . this framing is flawed on multiple levels , not the least of which is that those he calls " skeptics " are in fact typically no such thing . there is a difference between honest skepticism -- something that is not only valuable but necessary for the progress of science -- and pseudo-skepticism , i.e. denialism posing as " skepticism " for the sake of obscuring , rather than clarifying , what is known .  which brings us back to pielke .  . @thecostofenergy @thackerpd @fivethirtyeight and justin bieber could be the site -- @michaelemann  roger pielke , jr . is the single most disputed and debunked person in the entire realm of people who publish regularly on disasters and climate change . he trashes the reputation of any scientist who even suggests that there is the tiniest link whatsoever between climate change and extreme weather even though he himself has stated such a link exists ( click here , reposted below ) .  pielke is a political scientist , not a climate scientist , and he recently played politics in testimony before congress , including an attempt to refute president obama 's science adviser , john p. holdren , who has linked climate change and drought . holdren , who is the former president of the american association for the advancement of science , wrote a scathing response ( pdf here ) , specifically noting that pielke 's views are " not representative of main-stream views on this topic in the climate-science community , " while including a list of sources from peer-reviewed scientific literature that support the link .  in the rest of this response , i will show climate change science program ( ccsp ) about u.s. droughts is missing a crucial adjacent sentence in the ccsp report , which supports my position about drought in the american west . i will also show that dr. pielke 's statements about global drought trends , while irrelevant to my comments about drought in california and the colorado river basin , are seriously misleading , as well , concerning what is actually in the un panel 's latest report and what is in the current scientific literature .  the key words are seriously misleading , because as is the case with all who misinform and disinform on climate issues , this is n't a question of having a different opinion , it 's a matter of being wrong . it 's a matter of repeating false accusations even after they have been debunked . it 's a question of intent and integrity . it 's a pattern :  stefan rahmstorf , head of earth system analysis at the potsdam institute for climate impact research , and his colleagues were targeted by pielke upon the release of their 2011 paper pnas ) examining the increase of extreme events in a warming world . the paper found that the record-breaking russian heat of 2010 in particular " is , with 80 percent probability , due to the long-term climatic warming trend . "  pielke took issue with the conclusions and methodologies , saying he stood by his critique -- even after rahmstorf provided clarification that disputed pielke 's claims -- and accusing the authors of " cherry-picking . "  " faced with this kind of libelous distortion i will not answer any further questions from pielke now or in future , " rahmstorf commented . " as an aside , our paper was reviewed not only by two climate experts but in addition by two statistics experts coming from other fields . "  to be so wrong so often , and to so persistently butcher data suggests that pielke has an agenda , and will promote that agenda regardless of the facts :  roger pielke jr . is a political scientist who has publicly questioned the scientific integrity of more climate scientists than just about anyone else on ( as i document here ) .  that is no doubt a key reason pielke was included on foreign policy 's " guide to climate skeptics . " no doubt that 's why the websites that most prominently feature or reprint pielke 's attacks are climate denial sites like wattsupwiththat and climatedepot . it is also why he is probably the single most disputed and debunked person in the science blogosphere , especially on the subject of extreme weather and climate change ( see here and here ) .  pielke seems to be at war with the actual data , which would seem to undermine the entire premise of silver 's blog . silver is an expert on statistics , but the disaster of hiring pielke is n't only about ignoring the overwhelming scientific consensus on climate change , it 's also about pielke 's own problems with statistics , for which he often is criticized , if not ridiculed .  sometimes , pielke 's agenda takes him so far down the rabbit hole that he makes a complete fool of himself ( to be generous ) . change ( a premise that is absurd at face value ) , pielke six years ago claimed there were 1,264 times as many news stories about a study finding a 1,000 year high in hurricanes as about one claiming there has been no increase in the past century . the former was co-authored by the climate scientist michael mann . oops :  the fun is in the comments as folks try to explain to pielke that there is a film director called michael mann and that maybe pielke should n't count those stories . pielke comes back with the claim that restricting the search to " michael mann " + nature + hurricanes + aug 13-15 gives 1,412 stories . some folks might wonder how restricting the search gives you more results , but not pielke . in fact , if you read what google says at the link pielke gave it says that there are " about 20 ? , and if you look at all the results there are just 11 . a similar search for the landsea paper gives 5 news stories . this difference may be other in the journal of climate .  which was updated :  soon after i posted this , pielke finally made a correction , allowing that being out by a couple of orders of magnitude was a " bit sloppy " . heaven knows how wrong he would have to be before he admitted to being sloppy or very sloppy .  @thackerpd @natesilver538 @capitalclimate @climatebrad and maybe the tepco people on nuclear safety ? -- @bernsteinr  pielke has consistently been found lacking in accurately representing even basic statistics , whether it be about probability or t-tests or temperature records or the accuracy of models when compared to observed data .  . @natesilver538 i hope the irony of bringing pielke to a stats-branded enterprise does n't cause all of reality to implode . @fivethirtyeight -- @thingsbreak  and pielke 's first post at silver 's new site , attempting to downplay the connection between climate change and extreme weather events , is in the same mold , and already is being eviscerated :  " pielke 's piece is deeply misleading , confirming some of my worst fears outlet for misinformation when it comes to the issue of human-caused climate change , " said michael mann , director of the earth system science center at pennsylvania state university . " pielke uses a very misleading normalization procedure that likely serves to remove the very climate change-related damage signal that he claims to not be able to find . " ...  kevin e. trenberth is a senior climate scientist at the national center for atmospheric research :  " this is the same old wrong roger , " trenberth said by e-mail . " he is demonstrably wrong and misleads . "  pielke 's post cites his own previous claim that the fifth report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) found " little evidence of a spike in the frequency or intensity of floods , droughts , hurricanes and tornadoes , " and that future spikes of extreme weather will be statistically undetectable for decades .  dr. john abraham , a thermal science professor at the university of st. thomas famous for his formation of the climate science rapid response team , criticized you should know that we have already detected significant increases in atlantic hurricane intensity , in extreme heat waves , large precipitation events and regional droughts , " abraham wrote in an e-mail to nate silver expressing his disdain for the article , forwarded to climate progress .  " it 's ludicrous to say that extremes have not increased , and they have certainly increased in ways that are completely consistent with expectations based on atmospheric physics and climate model projections in response to increasing greenhouse gases , " jennifer francis , a research professor at rutgers university 's institute of marine and coastal science who specializes in the connection between climate change and extreme weather , said .  in the comments of pielke 's post , it is being pointed out that pielke ( yet again ) cherry-picked data , citing a study by the german reinsurance company munich re , while using the data from 1990 onward , even though the study itself compiled data starting 10 years earlier , in 1980 . there is no reason to omit the first 10 years of data , except the data prove what pielke wants them to prove . munich re itself , using all the data , came to the exact opposite conclusion of pielke , an inconvenient truth that pielke somehow neglects to mention .  in a follow-up post , responding to the extensive criticism , pielke cites an analysis by two scholars from the london school of economics ( lse ) , but ignores that their abstract ( pdf ) specifically states that because of their " inability to control for defensive mitigation measures , one can not infer from our analysis that there have definitely not been more frequent and/or more intensive weather-related natural hazards over the study period already . " which would seem to undermine pielke 's attempt to make exactly such an inference . pielke also ignores a later analysis by the same two lse scholars , wherein they find " no significant trends at the global level , but we detect statistically significant upward trends in normalized insured losses from all non-geophysical disasters as well as from certain specific disaster types in the united states and west germany . "  them to prove , but his cherry-picking the data and analysis to make it seem otherwise proves everything about pielke . right out of the gate , pielke 's contribution to silver 's site is to make a mockery of it .  climate change is the most important issue humanity has ever faced . on the questions of whether it is happening , whether humans burning fossil fuels are the primary driver , and whether the impacts are happening and will only grow worse , there is no credible debate . the scientific consensus is overwhelming . to promote disinformation and misinformation about climate change is inexcusable and unconscionable , but by hiring roger pielke , jr. , that is exactly what nate silver is doing . it would be bad enough if silver had hired pielke in conjunction with a credible climate scientist , to create the sort of false equivalency that the traditional media so loves to promote , but to have hired pielke at all undermines the very premise of what silver claims to be trying to do . it undermines the credibility of silver 's blog not this was a mistake that will be corrected , or whether it tells us something about silver himself .