The Streets of victory
http://www.ncaa.com/news/fencing/article/2014-03-23/streets-victory

the streets of victory  family , hard work , help kaito streets clinch individual , team titles  columbus , ohio -- more than 10 years ago , tomoko streets wanted to find a sport that her japan-born son , kaito , would enjoy .  she picked fencing . good choice .  sunday in the championship round of the ncaa fencing championships at ohio state 's st. john arena , kaito streets was lifted up by his penn state teammates onto their shoulders after streets defeated ferenc valkai of st. john 's . streets ' victory was the final step in penn state 's 13th national championship in fencing .  kaito 's dad was in the arena starting chants of " we are penn state " while also texting tomoko back in california to share the happy news .  streets won a junior olympic championship in 2011 , but this was his crowning achievement . and it started with his mom years ago because she happened to see him playing with swords and knives during a kids ' activity in japan as try it , they wanted me to try something new , compared to baseball and basketball , " kaito streets said . " i did all kinds of sports . so did my brother . they wanted me to do something different than my brother . fencing stuck with me . "  over two days , streets won 22 matches in saber , tying foil champion gerek meinhardt of notre dame for the most victories in the men 's tournament . those victories helped penn state win its first national championship since 2010 . and the team title mattered more to streets than his individual championship . he could n't bear to see the nittany lions step into their bus ride home without the national championship trophy .  " we came in here wanting to win as a team , especially for all the seniors who had n't won yet . it would have been the second class to not win a championship , " streets said . " so i did n't want that to happen . especially like my mentor , adrian bak , a senior who to win a championship . i wanted to do it for him .  " it meant a lot that we won as a team . the individual was just a plus . "  the victory also meant something to interim coach wes glon . he is hoping to become head coach .  " a lot of recruits are coming because they expect to be on a winning team , " glon said . " this will help us with recruits and everything . "  streets dominated the saber field in the men 's tournament after arriving in columbus with his confidence shaken . his sixth-place regional finish was a little bit better than his eighth-place finish as a freshman in 2013 . preparations leading up to the ncaa championships were stressful .  " i struggled at regionals , " streets said . " i thought going to regionals , i had a good game plan but it did n't work out . adrian bak just beat me down . they yelled at me . training was tough .  in the midst of those struggles , go to the gym and streets is there .  " five o'clock in the morning or saturday evening , he will always be there , " glon said .  bak , who finished second at the regional , was expected to be the title contender for penn state in saber . instead , streets blew through the field . he won 14 of 15 matches the first day , three more wins than bak and one more than shaul gordon , who was runner-up at the 2013 ncaa championships with penn state before transferring to penn .  " i stayed humble . i did n't want to get overconfident , " streets said .  " coming in , i was very nervous . after the first day , my confidence went up . talking to my dad , he told me , ' do n't get big-headed . stay humble . just focus on every touch . it 's not over yet . every touch , every bout counts . just go for it . ' "  sunday , he won another six round-robin bouts to he defeated gordon 15-13 in the semifinals , then topped valkai , a world championship team gold medalist with hungary .  already , streets is thinking about 2015 . tokomo , his mom , will be happy to hear it .  " repeat . i want a repeat , " he said . " people are happy to win one , but i want to it more than once . multiple times . "