This Is How Detroit Found Itself a Mysterious Pot of Gold
http://time.com/67367/this-is-how-detroit-found-itself-a-mysterious-pot-of-gold/

Suddenly the cops and firemen and other municipal workers ' retirement does n't look so bleak in the Motor City . But do n't try this at home .  More  To the great relief of firefighters , police and other public employees in bankrupt Detroit , city fathers recently plugged a huge hole in their pension plans . For now , anyway , something close to these employees ' retirement dreams have been restored .  But how did they do it ? Just a few weeks ago , Detroit leaders pegged the pension shortfall at $3.5 billion -- about 20% of the city 's total indebtedness -- and they were threatening to slash benefits beyond already expected cuts of up to 14% for cops and firemen and 34% for other workers . Miraculously , workers are now being assured that benefits cuts will be comparatively tame , amounting to less than a 5% reduction for those hardest hit .  Where did the money come from ? Who found the pot of gold that is enabling the city to fill such a big funding no one found so much as a single hard penny . Actuaries simply juggled a few numbers on the city ledger and , voila , a paper windfall appeared . Do n't try this at home .  The most important accounting change was the assumed rate of return on investments held in the city 's two big retirement funds . Previously , the annual rate of return was estimated at 6.25% and 6.5% on the two funds . Now the city is assuming a rate of return of 6.75% on both funds . Why the bump ? In part , anyway , the city seems to be taking heart in the stock market 's big gain last year , when after lackluster returns the past decade or so the S&amp;P 500 rebounded with a glowing 32% total return .  A sustained higher rate of return would mean more annual income for the funds , making them better able to meet benefits promises with the same amount of assets . But the question remains : Is the higher return assumption realistic ? One year is not a trend . Many returns ahead . A bankruptcy judge still must rule on the rosier projections .  A pension fund manager boosting the return assumption because stocks finally had a good year is a little like you at home predicting next winter wo n't be so cold and slashing your heating budget . You might be right . But it 's just a guess -- and if the guess is wrong you will have to find the money elsewhere to heat the house . Your finances only looked better briefly ; the picture dimmed as soon as another cold winter hit .  So how realistic is the 6.75% return assumption ? In the Detroit General Retirement System , annualized returns over the past seven years have been 3.9% , according to one analysis . The past five years , public pension funds have had a median annualized return of 5.3% , according to another analysis . Not so good , right ?  But let 's not throw Detroit 's leaders under the bus just yet . Because people generally work and accrue benefits over 40 years or so , pension funds fund return over the past 25 years has been 8.6% . The typical pension fund manager today assumes long-term rates of return between 7% and 8% . So Detroit has company , and may even seem cautious .  Among others , Warren Buffett has scolded pension managers for not recognizing a fundamental shift to slower growth and lower returns . But the new assumptions in the Motor City are n't completely unsupportable . Maybe the city 's employees will catch a much-needed break and get the higher returns that pension managers hope for .