Pot Smoke And Mirrors: Vaporizer Pens Hide Marijuana Use
http://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2014/04/18/302992602/pot-smoke-and-mirrors-vaporizer-pens-hide-marijuana-use

nikki esquibel , 19 , has a medical prescription for marijuana . she uses a vaporizer pen around her neighborhood in los angeles . miles bryan/npr hide caption  toggle caption miles bryan/npr  if i am running a school or a house , and i have a nose , i can tell if my kids are smoking pot . but if they 're using a vape pen , forget about it .  mark kleiman , a public policy researcher at the university of california , los angeles .  the 19-year-old , who has a medical prescription for marijuana , is " smoking " pot with a handheld vaporizer , or a vape pen . it 's sleek , black , and virtually indistinguishable from a high-end e-cigarette .  that 's the point , says esquibel . " i use it mostly around my neighborhood . it 's easy to hide . " the vapor coming from the device does n't even have much of an odor .  discretion , it turns out , makes for good money . while e-cigarettes have been quietly ballooning . and it 's reshaping the business and culture of marijuana .  the latest versions of e-cigarettes contain a battery-powered heating element that vaporizes a liquid containing nicotine . vape pens for pot use the same mechanism , but the devices are optimized to vaporize the active molecules in concentrated marijuana oils , not nicotine . and just as with e-cigs , there 's no fire or smoke .  pot users are flocking to the pens : one out of three reviews on leafly , the yelp of the pot world , is about vaping marijuana .  the pen does n't carry the stigma or notoriety of a bong or joint , says todd mitchem , an executive at o.pen vape , which sells its products on the west coast and in colorado .  " we are getting people buying vape pens who would n't normally come into a marijuana dispensary , " he tells shots . " now , all of a sudden , they have an alternative to smoking pot , " he adds .  two years ago , chris folkerts was . today his company , grenco science , has 6,000 square feet of prime real estate in central los angeles .  " you could never get your mom to hit a bong , " he says . " but your mom would potentially hit a g pen . my mom did . my grandmother did too ! and i have god-fearing christian grandparents from the midwest . when they tried it , i knew i was on to something . "  most vape pens do n't actually vaporize the marijuana plant . they 're loaded with marijuana concentrates , or " hash oil " : a viscous , yellow resin chemically extracted from the plant . in many places , that extraction often occurs in somebody 's kitchen -- which can be explosive and dangerous .  and the concentrates can be strong . really , really strong . marijuana flowers can contain up to about 20 percent thc , the psychoactive chemical that makes you feel high . but the concentrates can contain up to 90 percent thc . esquibel says she almost fainted when she took her st. pierre , executive director of the national organization to reform marijuana laws , a nonprofit lobbying group working to broadly legalize marijuana use .  " between the fact that you can potentially pass out with a single inhalation , or you can have such property damage and potential bodily harm just producing it ... these issues of the vape pen definitely need to be addressed , " he says . " this is a screaming call for regulation if there ever was one . "  most states , such as california , that allow the sale and use of medical marijuana do n't have rules on the books about marijuana concentrates or about vaping the substance . california is considering a ban on concentrates , while colorado and washington allow them . the sale and use of vape pens is legal in every state .  and what about the health effects of vaping pot compared with smoking it ?  " the problem is that , right now , it 's hard to tell how much thc you are actually getting when you take a puff of who studies marijuana laws and policies at the university of california , los angeles . " the risk of getting wrecked is a lot higher . "  and given that the output of vape pens does n't have the telltale marijuana smell , kleiman is also concerned about what the rising popularity of the devices means for parents and teachers .  " for them this will be a nightmare , " he tells shots . " if i am running a school or a house and i have a nose , i can tell if my kids are smoking pot . but if they 're using a vape pen , forget about it . "  correction april 18 , 2014  a caption in a previous version of this story incorrectly stated that the vapor from vaporizer pens smells the same as e-cigarettes .  shots is the online channel for health stories from the npr science desk . we report on news that can make a difference for your health and show how policy shapes our health choices . look to shots for the latest on research of health . your hosts are scott hensley and nancy shute . you can reach the shots team via our contact form .