Microsoft shows off the next release of ASP.NET
http://www.zdnet.com/article/microsoft-shows-off-the-next-release-of-asp-net/

Microsoft officials is beginning to share publicly details about the next version of the company 's ASP.NET , its server-side Web-development framework , on May 12 .  At TechEd in Houston , Microsoft is showing off what officials are calling ASP.NET vNext , which was codenamed " Project K. " Officials are calling this a " streamlined " and " cloud-optimized " version of . NET .  The Open Web Interface for . Net ( OWIN ) is " taking over " the ASP.NET runtime , said Jeff Fritz , an ASP.NET expert . ASP.NET MVC v.Next will be OWIN-compliant , which means ASP.NET will allow developers to assemble and build their applications using Web components , giving programmers access to a bigger and more flexible set of building blocks for their server-side apps .  At TechEd , Microsoft also announced that it is building into Visual Studio tooling for the Apache Cordova platform , which allows development of multi-device hybrid applications using HTML and JavaScript . The message is that Visual Studio developers have a choice : They can build native Windows , , or opt for HTML/JavaScript using Apache Cordova . The Community Technology Preview of the Apache Cordova integration is available today .  Microsoft also announced the release to manufacturing of Visual Studio 2013 Update 2 at TechEd . Visual Studio Update 2 is a foundational piece of Microsoft 's " Universal Apps " strategy . Using Update 2 , developers can reuse more of their code when writing apps that will work on Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.1 . The company also announced today that it is releasing a set of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) and service hooks that integrate third-party services with Visual Studio Online .  Last week , Microsoft quietly rolled out . NET 4.5.2 , which includes a number of bug fixes , security updates and " nominal " features , according to company officials . When Microsoft delivered . NET 4.5.1 last fall , officials said to expect the company to crank up the pace and make regular updates to . NET outside of major releases .