Beyond Traditional And Emotional Intelligence: The Secret Weapon ...
http://www.fastcompany.com/3030311/beyond-traditional-and-emotional-intelligence-the-secret-weapon-of-great-innovators

Through connectional intelligence , the best innovators use their relationships to drive their passions and never shy away from tough conversations . Here are three ways you can do the same .  By Erica Dhawan  With so many different mediums of communication and so many people with whom we can connect , how does anyone manage to create an intelligent , mutually beneficial relationship ?  The best innovators have the answer , and their secret weapon is connectional intelligence .  In my research with renowned business strategist Saj-nicole Joni , we discovered that there is a third wave after IQ and Emotional Intelligence -- what we describe as connectional intelligence .  Simply put , it is the capability to drive innovation and breakthrough results by harnessing the power of relationships and networks . Although it 's an innate human capacity , it requires intentional use to be unlocked .  In order to start a movement -- to convert a passion into something larger -- you must first understand the context in which you 're operating .  You need to ask your lens in order to make the most of your connections and pave the way towards innovation .  An example of this component of connectional intelligence comes from 9-year-old Scottish schoolgirl Martha Payne . With her parents ' help , in 2009 Martha launched a website called NeverSeconds , through which she critiqued the dismal lunches her Aberdeen primary school served .  When her site went viral , it ignited a debate in the United Kingdom around the quality of institutional food . People were intrigued by Martha 's context and admired her drive -- her ability to resist complacency and fight for an issue that bothered her in service of a greater good .  You ca n't shy away from taking matters into your own hands . Instead of standing idle , begin a charged discussion , amplify it , and raise awareness for a cause or idea you value .  You can follow the courageous example of the writers of the local blog NYVelocity , who published a scientific study concluding that Lance Armstrong 's string of victories was the result of one of the the wife of one of Armstrong 's teammates said , " They were n't afraid to print the truth . " Today , NYVelocity is credited with bringing down an athlete who had managed to both bully and vilify critics , teammates , and reporters . The New York biking bloggers brought light to an issue that they found unfair and were n't afraid to initiate a conversation that soon reached all corners of our interconnected world .  Once you 've created a conversation you 're passionate about , you must mobilize and ignite diverse networks to bring together a community around your idea or cause .  General Electric demonstrated just how such a community can be forged with their Ecomagination Challenge , a global competition to find the world 's most promising green startups .  Analyzing over 4,000 submissions from more than 150 countries , GE found itself with a valuable byproduct : a collaborative community of 100,000 people all dedicated to sharing cutting-edge green-tech ideas , a community committed to sharing possibilities with one another via social media .  Further expanding this community , these to one another across all industries . By unlocking this component of their connectional intelligence , GE was able to unite a group of diverse people with a common goal of developing and promoting green technology .  To measure your own connectional intelligence , ask yourself the following :  How well do I expand people 's capabilities to think outside of the box and apply different lenses to problems ?  How well do I encourage courageous conversations amongst your team ?  How well do I foster an environment in which your community can thrive ?  By harnessing connectional intelligence , you can expand your possibilities , elevate your ideas , and drive greater results . Ultimately , you become capable of joining the ranks of today 's best innovators and sharing their secret weapon .  -- Erica Dhawan is the founder &amp; CEO of Cotential , a global innovation firm that helps organizations unleash the connected potential of people everywhere to solve their most pressing challenges . Follow @cotential and @edhawan .  Young Entrepreneur Council ( YEC ) is an invite-only organization comprised of with Citi , YEC recently launched StartupCollective , a free virtual mentorship program .  Add New Comment  3Comments  We believe that many of the attributes you wisely advocate can be learned and mastered . Perhaps you and your readers may find our related research , organizing principles and tools to be of relevance to your important content ( see the latter two links , the last being a related white paper ) :  Well , this is related : http : **50;0;TOOLONG from the panel discussion , Empowered Communities : The Art and Science of Building Networks , from Nov 20th 2009 at 10:00 AM PT at the Monterey Institute of International Studies in Monterey CA . What can we do in the context of relationships ? Thank you .