Exclusive: Ken Taylor's 'Children of Men' Poster Announces Mondo ...
http://www.slashfilm.com/ken-taylor-mondo-show-children-of-men/

Few artists in the poster world are as in demand as Ken Taylor . The Australian artist is not only one of the most popular names on the Mondo roster , he does posters for many of the biggest bands touring today . Taylor 's gorgeous , realistic , striking style has made instant collectibles of posters for Halloween , Alice in Wonderland , Man of Steel , Jurassic Park , and Breaking Bad . Now he 's tackling even more .  Though Taylor had a paired show at Mondo last year , and triple at Phone Booth the year before that , on May 30 , he 's soon having his first solo show at the Mondo Gallery in Austin , Texas . The show , simply called The Art of Ken Taylor , will feature posters for lots of recognizable films , many of which Mondo has never tackled before .  To whet your whistle , we 're excited to exclusively debut Taylor 's poster for Alfonso Cuaron 's Children of Men and also a take on Frank Oz 's musical , Little Taylor Mondo show below .  Here 's our exclusive debut of the regular and variant editions of Children of Men :  That 's just the tip of the poster filled mountain with the Ken Taylor Mondo show , which 'll be on display in Austin , 4115 Guadalupe Street , through June 21 . Here 's the official press release :  Mondo presents " The Art of Ken Taylor " for the next gallery show , running from May 30th through June 21st . The opening night event will be Friday , May 30th from 7 -- 10pm at the Mondo Gallery , located at 4115 Guadalupe St. in Austin , TX . Artist Ken Taylor will be in attendance .  One of the most sought after artists in music &amp; film , Ken Taylor is responsible for some of the most stunning imagery in Mondo 's archive , often besting the original and undeniably great official artwork for classic films . Ken Taylor 's previous Mondo artwork can be viewed here .  " Flying halfway across the world to exhibit my work for this amazing is the culmination of many months of hard work and stress ( but more importantly , fun ) , and I ca n't wait to show it all , " said Taylor .  The show will include prints for films that Mondo has never previously tackled before , including the two preview pieces for Children of Men &amp; Little Shop of Horrors .  Melbourne based Illustrator &amp; Designer Ken Taylor works primarily within the music industry and is predominantly well known for his striking rock posters . Ken started in Perth Western Australia doing posters and album artwork for local bands . In 2001 He moved to Melbourne and slowly started to create a name for himself within Melbourne 's music scene . In 2006 he went out on his own and started to work full time on music-based artwork .  Ken has designed posters and album artwork for many Australian bands including You Am I &amp; The Beasts of Bourbon &amp; Crowded House . Internationally he has designed artwork for bands such Queens of the Stone Age , Metallica , Pearl Jam , Nine Inch Nails , . Over the past few years he has become very well known for his limited edition silkscreened movie posters , working through MONDO with some of the worlds biggest movie licenses . Ken has won the Desktop Create Award for Best illustration in both 2007 &amp; 2009 and was a Guest Speaker at the 2009 AGIDEAS design conference , the 2011 Semi Permanent Creative Conference in both Melbourne and Perth and the 2012 Look Hear Conference in Newcastle . In 2012 he exhibited in Los Angles and then 2013 in Austin and was also part of SXSW Flatsock . Ken continues to work with bands both locally and internationally and is represented by Drawing Book .