Love Cover Songs? Thank This Terrible Supreme Court Decision ...
http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/history_of_innovation/2014/05/white_smith_music_case_a_terrible_1908_supreme_court_decision_on_player.html

Scales of Justice  How a terrible Supreme Court decision about player pianos made the cover song what it is today .  The player piano deeply troubled composers at the time of its introduction .  Courtesy of Rama/Mus ? e Baud  Way before Spotify , stereos , or even radio , Americans who wanted to listen to music at home had one choice : They could play it themselves . This changed by the 1890s , when a hot new technology arrived : the player piano . Player pianos were miraculous in their ability to play popular songs and old standards alike while people sang along , danced , or just enjoyed the sounds . But as with a lot of newfangled machines , not everyone loved the player piano .  In particular , the technology deeply troubled composers , such as the famed John Philip Sousa . Sousa worried that the pianos would kill the public 's demand for sheet music , and copyright royalties from the sale of sheet music were what paid composers ' bills . To make matters worse the songs they put on piano rolls -- scrolls of paper with holes punched out in patterns . People could n't read the rolls ; they spoke only to machines . And on that ground , the player piano companies argued that the rolls did not " copy " songs , and so could be manufactured and distributed without the need to pay royalties .  This was an exceptionally stupid argument . Sheet music and player piano rolls both copy songs ; they just use different languages . What matters is what comes out when the language is translated . And for both , the answer is the same : music .  Advertisement  So the issue was n't terribly difficult , but apparently it was complicated enough to fool the Supreme Court . In a 1908 case called White-Smith Music Publishing Co. v. Apollo Co. , the Supreme Court sided with the player piano companies . The court said that because humans could n't read player piano rolls , they were not in fact copies , and as a result , composers like Sousa could n't demand any will innovate if others can copy freely . Why invest the time to invent a better mousetrap , or write a great song , if someone can just take the fruit of your hard work and sell it themselves ? This basic logic -- that copying is bad for creativity -- is the fundamental reason we have patent and copyright law . These rules exist to make sure that copying is only legal when the creator agrees to it . Unauthorized copying -- as anyone who has watched a DVD with an FBI warning at the start knows -- is against the law .  So when , more than a century ago , the Supreme Court declared that copying by player piano companies was just fine , we saw the beginning of a process that culminated in the death of American songwriting . Songwriters stopped writing , fearful that the piano roll companies would just steal their new songs and feed the expanding market for player pianos at home . Thanks to the Supreme Court , the golden age of American song essentially ended in 1908 .  In creating had no idea it would let loose one of the great innovative forces in music .  If something seems wrong about this story , it 's because the last part is completely false . As we all know , the golden age of American songwriting did not end in 1908 . In fact , geniuses such as George Gershwin and Cole Porter were still kids when White-Smith Publishing was decided . Nearly all the " great American standards " were written in the decades after White-Smith Publishing . The reason American songwriting not only survived the onslaught of the player piano , but thrived , tells us a lot about how creativity really works .  The first important thing to know is that the actual result in White-Smith Publishing lasted but a year before it was overturned by Congress . The Copyright Act of 1909 extended the law to cover all " mechanical " reproductions of songs , whether read by people or machines . At the same time , however , Congress did a very important thing : It mandated that all songs would be subject to what that any musician could copy another 's song without asking permission , so long as they paid a low standardized fee to the songwriter ( $0.02 per copy , originally , and quite a bit lower , adjusted for inflation , today ) . So on the one hand , Congress overthrew the argument that player piano rolls were not songs . But on the other , Congress set everyone free to copy , just so long as a small fee was paid .  So why did Congress create this unusual system of legal copying ? Because it was afraid of one company -- Aeolian . That firm is long gone . But in the early part of the 20th century , Congress viewed Aeolian as something like the Microsoft or Google of the nascent player piano market .  Anticipating that Congress would overturn White-Smith Publishing , Aeolian swiftly bought up song rights from musicians and publishing companies so it could copy them onto player piano rolls . Aeolian 's weaker competitors complained to Congress about this attempt to corner the music market .  An automatic piano roll So to keep the Aeolian Co. from having a monopoly on the then-crucial player piano roll market , Congress allowed anyone to make a mechanical reproduction of someone else 's song . And that does n't just mean that Aeolian 's competitors could make their own piano rolls of popular tunes . Congress 's compulsory licensing scheme legalized the cover song -- anyone can make their own recording of someone else 's song , just so long as a recording of that song has previously been released , and the cover artist pays the required fee . ( In practice , most cover artists pay privately negotiated rates that are even lower than the fee set by Congress ) . And the freedom to cover others ' songs gave birth to a vibrant culture of continuous musical revival , remaking and reinterpretation , all of which allows good songs to become great and , sometimes , we must admit , classics to be butchered .  It 's all in the eye ( or ear ) of the beholder . But the important point is that because of Aeolian 's dominance in America in which musicians are free to tweak songs they like -- and they do so with great enthusiasm . Bob Dylan wrote " All Along the Watchtower " ; Jimi Hendrix turned it into something quite different and , arguably , made a great song even greater . Another 1960s classic , Van Morrison 's " Gloria , " has been covered by performers including Jimi Hendrix , the Doors , David Bowie , Tom Petty , Bruce Springsteen , Rickie Lee Jones , AC/DC , and ( in perhaps the song 's most memorable and inventive reinterpretation ) Patti Smith . " Gloria " is an enduring song in part because so many legendary musicians have tweaked it . Cat Power , John Lennon , Willie Nelson , Paul Anka , and many other famous artists have issued albums of nothing but cover songs . All this legal copying has made our musical culture immeasurably richer .  Has the freedom to copy others ' songs , in exchange for a very low fee that the original songwriter has no power to override , suppressed the incentive to . Indeed , the opposite is true . Every day we see a continual outpouring of new songs . And many of the copied songs -- the covers -- are themselves incredibly creative . Think about jazz greats like Charlie Parker and John Coltrane . On one level , they are copying -- Coltrane 's version of the Rodgers and Hammerstein standard " My Favorite Things " relies on that song 's famous melody . But if Coltrane starts there , it 's certainly not where he ends up . By the song 's end , more than 13 minutes later , Coltrane has altered the original melody and taken it in a much darker , more contemplative direction . At some point in the song , Coltrane crosses the uncertain border that separates copyists from creators .  This kind of creative copying -- what we will call " tweaking " -- is not just a musical thing . It is present in all inventive fields . Perhaps the most important point about tweaking is this : Tweaking does not appear to lead to fewer original creations . If anything most significant and enduring innovations rest on tweaking . As Malcolm Gladwell has argued , the late Steve Jobs of Apple -- an icon of our innovation economy if there ever was one , and the man behind the iPhone and iPad -- " was repeatedly referred to as a large-scale visionary and inventor . " But in fact , " he was much more a tweaker . "  Jobs , Gladwell goes on to argue , was " the greatest tweaker of his generation . " Even the iPad , Jobs ' last great success , was a tweak of an idea out of Microsoft . And Gladwell rightly points out that the significance of tweaking to technological innovation is by no means a new thing : Economists debating the origins of the industrial revolution have claimed that the key reason Britain , and not France or Germany , was the first home of the industrial age was tweaking . As Gladwell describes their argument , Britain was not necessarily the home of path-breaking pioneers who created the foundational building blocks of the Industrial Revolution . Rather :  larger population of skilled engineers and artisans than its competitors : resourceful and creative men who took the signature inventions of the industrial age and tweaked them -- refined and perfected them , and made them work .  In creating the cover song , the Congress of a century ago had no idea it would let loose one of the great innovative forces in music . It was just trying to repair a blunder by the Supreme Court and ensure that the giant Aeolian Co. did n't swallow the entire player piano market . Today , the player piano market is minuscule , and Aeolian has been dead for almost three decades . But the lesson of Aeolian lives on . Copying and creativity are not opposites -- they are often complements . Since there is nothing new under the sun , every creator relies , sometimes to a large degree , on what came before .  This should be obvious , but too often it is n't . Copying is viewed as a terrible thing , a crime and a killer of creativity . To be sure , story shows , it can also be the key to new forms of creativity we never could have imagined .