Training the Brain to Lift Toddlers Out of Poverty
http://news.sciencemag.org/economics/2014/05/training-brain-lift-toddlers-out-poverty

Training the Brain to Lift Toddlers Out of Poverty  It 's a sad fact that children born in poverty start out at a disadvantage and continue to fall further behind kids who are more privileged as they grow up . In developing countries , chiefly in Africa and Asia , some 200 million children under age 5 wo n't reach the same milestones -- for physical growth , school performance , and earnings later on -- as children who are less deprived . But a new analysis of a long-term study in Jamaica shows that surprisingly simple ways of stimulating children 's mental development can have dramatic benefits later in life .  The children were participants in the Jamaican Study , a project geared toward improving cognitive development begun in the mid-1980s by child health specialists Sally Grantham-McGregor of University College London and Susan Walker of the University of the West Indies , Mona , in Jamaica . They focused on children between the ages of 9 and 24 months whose growth was stunted , placing them in the bottom 5% of height for their ) . Children of normal height in the same neighborhoods were also studied for comparison .  For 2 years , community health workers visited the families weekly . One group was given nutritional assistance only ( a formula containing 66% of daily recommended calories , along with vitamins and minerals ) . One group received a mental and social stimulation program only , and one group got stimulation and nutritional assistance . A final group had no intervention and served as a control . The mental stimulation program involved giving parents simple picture books and handmade toys , and encouraging them to read and sing to their children and point out names of objects , shapes , and colors . They were also taught better ways to converse and respond to their toddlers . These everyday interactions are n't always part of the culture in low-income countries , explains Paul Gertler , an economist at the University of California , Berkeley . " Parents might have five or six kids and few toys . They might be working really hard and have a lot of competing demands . They might , or how important and effective it is , " he says . Past research attests to the importance of everyday conversation for children 's mental development : A recent study suggests that children of affluent parents do better in life in large part because their parents talk to them more .  Follow-up studies over the next 20 years revealed that the Jamaican children who received the mental stimulation had better grades and higher IQs , showed fewer signs of depression , and got in fewer fights . The new study , reported online today in Science , focused on the children 's economic achievement as young adults . Gertler , Grantham-McGregor , Walker , and colleagues tracked down 105 out of the original 129 growth-stunted children . Those who had received the stimulation intervention had earned 25% more than the children in the control group . Even more exciting , Gertler notes , is that they had closed the gap -- in physical and economic stature -- between themselves and children in their neighborhoods with normal height and weight . Adding nutritional assistance to the mental stimulation did n't own had no effect -- likely because this kind of intervention must be used before a child 's growth has been stunted , Gertler says .  " Mental and social stimulation at around 1 year of age really matter , " Gertler says . " It was enough to reduce and possibly eliminate inequality in the long term . " Gertler emphasizes that the interventions were inexpensive , consisting of toys , books , and conversation -- not pricey , high-tech gadgets like iPads , for example .  Jere Behrman , an economist at the University of Pennsylvania who was not involved in the research , says the study is the first to demonstrate a long-term economic benefit to early intervention stimulation programs in developing countries . But he is more cautious about saying that the program greatly reduces inequality . " A 25% increase in earnings will improve the welfare of people who are very poor , and that 's something to be glad about . But it may not reduce overall inequality by very much . " He points out that although the mentally stimulated children caught their later earnings did n't begin to compare to those of more affluent kids .  Still , Behrman agrees that the simplicity of the interventions in the Jamaican Study is a point in its favor . " Flying in world-class psychologists to work with the kids for hours would give impressive results , but that would n't be easy to duplicate . " The Jamaican Study 's methods now are being used in Bangladesh , India , and Colombia . The study provides proof that " homemade toys and weekly visits from someone from within the community can also have a dramatic impact , " Behrman says .  Joan Lombardi , who was deputy assistant secretary for early childhood development in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services from 2009 to 2011 and is now a senior adviser to the Bernard van Leer Foundation in The Hague , the Netherlands , says the study adds to the growing body of research from around the world confirming that what happens in the early years has an impact on long-term health , learning , and well-being . " Investing in " It 's time to translate this growing science into improved policies and new investments in young children and their families around the world . "  *Clarification , 2 June , 11:29 a.m. : This article has been updated to clarify that according to Jere Behrman , the study is the first to demonstrate an economic benefit for early intervention programs that focus on mental and social stimulation in developing countries . Behrman 's research in Guatemala has shown that programs aimed at improving nutrition for infants and toddlers can improve earnings in adulthood .