Startup pitch: Winerist gets a sip of funding for its wine and culinary ...
http://www.tnooz.com/article/startup-pitch-winerist/

Got a hot tip ? tell us about it !  Startup pitch : Winerist gets a sip of funding for its wine and culinary tours website  Winerist is a booking platform for travelers that focuses on wine and food travel .  Based in London , the startup says that in April it secured a " sizeable " but unspecified seed round that came from undisclosed angel investors , including one of the founders of Booking.com .  Rolled out as a booking tool in March 2013 by school friends originally from Moldova , Diana Isac ( CEO ) and Tatiana Livesey ( CFO ) , Winerist is currently working on improving its booking solution and hiring engineers .  Winerist has a commission based model from its tours , hotels and wineries around the world .  Our strategy is to be present in every single major wine &amp; culinary spot and offer clients a simple online booking solution , especially since our recent survey shows that 55% book last minute or at the destination .  Winerist is currently undergoing integration with booking.com  This will ensure that by the end of the year , the platform will grow to more than 5,000 experiences and places to stay in wine destinations and wine capitals around the globe .  What problem does the business solve ?  In a fragmented market , Winerist brings the most authentic industry players online making wine and food travel simple .  What makes Winerist stand out is its community of over 100 wine experts and bloggers worldwide . We pride ourselves in offering free travel guides , recommendations , and a booking service specifically for wine country .  Travellers will never again have to spend endless hours researching and booking their perfect trip as Winerist allows you to research and book it all in one place .  How did the initial idea evolve and were there changes/any pivots along the way in the early stages ?  We started off with wine travel , hence the name Winerist ( wine tourist ) and quickly realised that wine &amp; food go together as an experience . People do not need to travel necessarily to enjoy great urban spots too .  Since we started to generate revenues a year ago , we did a survey of users that showed that 75% of people book online and 34% use social media , while more than half book at the destination .  We 'll use these insights into customer behaviour to improve our product .  Why should people or companies use the business ?  Winerist is the best online tool to find , inform yourself and book that perfect wine and food holiday .  Our free travel guides are written in cooperation with local wine and travel experts and provide TripAdvisor-style information on where to go , what do to and where to eat for example .  Unless you are going to Napa , Bordeaux or Tuscany it 's very hard to come by a good travel guide for a wine &amp; foodie destination plus book the best experiences and hotel online .  What is the strategy for raising awareness and the customer/user acquisition ( apart from PR ) ?  Winerist has focused on customer acquisition via channels such as wine clubs agents , a constant flow of high quality content generation , an on-going blogger outreach strategy and a targeted social media strategy .  Where do you see the company in three years time and what specific challenges do you anticipate having to overcome ?  We want Winerist to become the go to website for all wine and food experiences including in major cities .  We want to grow our community to over 100,000 users and become the largest online marketplace for winos &amp; foodies .  One of our main challenges ( hence , opportunity ) will be to educate the wineries how to set the wine tasting tours that the travellers are seeking .  The discerning tourist does not want to see a video of how wine is made when at the winery , they want to meet the winemaker , see the vines and of course taste the wines .  What is wrong with the travel , tourism and hospitality industry that requires another startup to help it out ?  The travel industry looks at the big picture , but right now it experience that 's right for him .  This is why we feel that a niche business that caters for the needs of wine-lovers and foodies at a global scale will help out many travellers looking for authentic experiences .  What other technology company would you consider yourselves most closely aligned to in terms of culture and style ... and why ?  Probably Peek or Vayable , because they trying to connect the locals with traveller and focus more on unique tours .  Sean O'Neill is Editor-in-Chief of Tnooz . He lives in New Jersey . Before joining us , Sean was tech columnist at BBC Travel , senior editor at BudgetTravel.com , and associate editor at Kiplinger 's . Follow him on Twitter .  Very interesting and informative Start-up pitch . There is one more start-up website in this space across the pond in Toronto Canada . I am the Founder of Wine Region Rentals a one stop Wine &amp; Travel Lovers Portal to link Wine and Travel Lovers with Lodging and Tours in wine regions . The travellers visiting the website are able to book through affiliates like Viator , Homeway , Booking.com , etc as well as tours .