A Mental-Health Expert Explains How to Stop the Next Elliot Rodger
http://nymag.com/scienceofus/2014/05/how-to-stop-the-next-elliot-rodger.html

A Mental-Health Expert Explains How to Stop the Next Elliot Rodger  Ideally , in the wake of a mass-killing tragedy like the Elliot Rodger murders from last weekend , society will at least come away with an insight or two about how to prevent the next one . Toward that end , Science of Us reached out to Jeffrey Rowe , clinical director of child and adolescent psychiatry at Rady Children 's Hospital in San Diego ( and a psychiatry professor at UCSD ) , to ask how mental-health professionals separate young men who are merely troubled or upset from those who pose a genuine threat .  This is tricky , of course : There are a lot of quiet and/or lonely and/or taciturn young men out there , and many of them come across as creepy . The vast majority of them are n't a threat to anybody and grow up to be well- or relatively well-adjusted . Rowe 's recommendations , which he described as " rough , " are designed with this in mind . ( This is male-focused , because while more likely to engage in acts of mass violence . )  It 's a two-stage process , he explained in an email . First comes an initial screening to determine " who COULD be a danger at some point " -- that is , who fits the basic profile of being potentially dangerous , even if the vast majority of people in this category wo n't end up harming anybody :  The screening would be all the things you read about -- male gender , socially poorly connected to others ( family , friends , co-workers , romantic connection ) , unsuccessful in school or vocation , isolated and ruminative ( hard to talk to , always going on about the same subject ) , angry , external locus of control ( my life would be better if other people would change their behavior ) while also being extremely egocentric .  Once they 've been identified , the next step is an assessment geared at determining whether a dangerous act is actually likely :  The assessment would include major risk factors and current symptoms -- risk factors 2 ) recent small crimes in which the rights and possessions of others are violated , ( 3 ) problematic use of drugs or alcohol , ( 4 ) acts of build-up ( writing , practicing or rehearsing , obtaining the methods for his future action ) , and ( 5 ) possession of weapons ; and then symptoms like ( 6 ) emotional arousal or outbursts in public , ( 7 ) evidence of illogical thought , ( 8 ) loss of reality testing , unusual distortions of perception ( hallucinations , grandiose delusions ) , and ( 9 ) end to doing of their usual activities ( hygiene , attending school or work , losing contact with those they usually do have some contact with ) . numbering mine  Now , surely when Rowe was laying this out , he had Rodger in the back of his head , but it 's still striking how neatly Rodger fits these criteria , at least based on his manifesto :  1 . Yes . In addition to the fact that he felt humiliated by the mere presence of women , there was an incident in which he got really drunk , confronted some people at a party , and got beaten up .  2 . Yes . Rodger outlines several instances in which he threw coffee on couples because he was so outraged that they ... well , existed . He also filled a Super Soaker with orange juice and sprayed down a group of young people .  3 . Yes . By the time of the shooting he was engaging in some problem drinking , though he did n't recount any other drug use .  4 . Yes . The manifesto itself , but also the planning he went through , the videos , and so on .  5 . Yes .  6 . Yes .  7 . Yes . I would say that wishing to gain ultimate power over humanity so as to end the practice of sexual intercourse constitutes an " illogical thought . " There 's also his obsession with winning the lottery .  8 . Sort of . There 's no evidence of hallucinations , but definitely some steady decline in his courseload and social interactions during high school and college , and he eventually becomes infuriated that World of Warcraft , his favorite video game and main sanctuary for many years , has become infested with " normal " people who do n't share his sorts of problems .  Obviously , the whole point here is that society ca n't access the private activities -- let alone the brain -- of Elliot Rodger and other troubled young men . But if more people knew what to look for , it might increase their odds of intervening and getting law enforcement or mental-health professionals involved when they encounter a friend or neighbor who exhibits these warning signs .