Syria refugees set to exceed a third of Lebanon's population
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-syria-crisis-lebanon-idUSKBN0F818T20140703

syria refugees set to exceed a third of lebanon 's population  a syrian girl fills a water container at a refugee camp in the town of anjar in lebanon 's bekaa valley may 22 , 2014 .  reuters/caren firouz  beirut lebanon faces the threat of political and economic collapse as the number of refugees pouring in from syria is set to exceed a third of the population , social affairs minister rashid derbas said on thursday .  derbas said the total was expected to hit 1.5 million by the end of the year , an excessive burden for a country of just 4 million people .  he said the influx of refugees fleeing syria 's civil war will have cost lebanon 's already fragile economy around $7.5 billion between 2012 and 2014 . border communities hosting syrian refugees were under particular pressure because of the increase in people willing to work for low wages .  " unemployment doubled , especially among unspecialized or unskilled labor in those mostly poor areas , " he said , warning that the refugee crisis " even security collapse . "  the turmoil next door has not only hurt lebanon 's economy , but has aggravated sectarian tensions and fueled violence . it currently hosts around 1.1 million registered syrian refugees .  " we know that we are working towards having more than 1.5 million registered refugees by the end of 2014 , which amounts to more than a third of the local population , " derbas told a meeting of lebanese ministers and international aid groups .  " beyond limits "  according to the united nations , lebanon has taken in 38 percent of all syrian refugees in the region , more than any other country .  " we all have our limits and we have gone beyond those limits now , " derbas said .  more than half of the syrians in lebanon are children , and the vast majority are not in school . syrian women and children are often seen begging on the streets in parts of the capital beirut , and while some refugees have rented apartments , others are living in ad hoc shelters in refugees have put increasing pressure on infrastructure in a country that suffers from frequent power cuts and is unable to supply all of its population with clean water .  the united nations estimates that lebanon will need $1.6 billion in funding to cope with the humanitarian situation this year , but so far only 23 percent has been raised .  at the current level of funding , aid agencies will not be able to meet a target of getting 172,000 refugee children into lebanese schools next year , said ninette kelley from the u.n . ' s refugee agency unhcr .  " we will be unable to launch a polio vaccination campaign for all children in lebanon under five ... 800,000 refugees will go without winter support , " she told the mid-year review meeting .  syrian refugees are still registering at the rate of 100,000 per month in neighboring countries , although the outflow has slowed somewhat in recent months , the unhcr said on thursday .  the new estimate is for 3.6 million syrian refugees to be in the region by the end of . apart from lebanon , syrians have fled across borders into turkey , jordan and iraq .  seoul - south korea and japan agreed to resolve the issue of " comfort women , " as those who were forced to work in japan 's wartime brothels were euphemistically known , which has long plagued ties between the neighbors . full article