Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice: See the First Pic of Henry ...
http://www.eonline.com/news/556632/batman-v-superman-dawn-of-justice-see-the-first-pic-of-henry-cavill-in-costume-as-the-man-of-steel

your information may be shared with other nbcuniversal businesses and used to better tailor our services and advertising to you . for more details about how we use your information , see our privacy policy . if you are located outside of the u.s. , your information may be transferred to , processed and used in the u.s.  done  news/  batman v superman : dawn of justice : see the first pic of henry cavill in costume as the man of steel !  by zach johnson  share  0  tweet  0  share  0  email  &lt;&gt; embed  ctrl-c or cmd-c , then press enter.click/tap elsewhere to exit , or press esc .  clay enos/warner bros .  is it may 6 , 2016 yet ?  the first picture of henry cavill as supermanin batman v. superman : dawn of justice was released thursday , nearly two months after director zack snyder tweeted the first look of ben affleck as batman .  the photo , which first appeared in usa today , shows the developing the character -- both as clark kent and as superman -- is a challenge , snyder tells the newpspaper , but there 's also " the fun of trying to figure out what to put in front of him that 's difficult . "  according to snyder , cavill is more comfortable playing the iconic character in this movie . " we 've both created this guy and we can push him around a little bit , " says the director , who cast cavill to play the lead role in 2013 's man of steel . " the more time i spend with henry , the more he 's superman to me . "  many wondered why snyder would add anotherwell-known character to the sequel . he understands the worry . because of christopher nolan 's dark knight trilogy , he says , " i was in no rush to put batman in the movie . but on the other hand it seemed organic the way our story was unfolding to start to feather him in . " the director ca n't say exactly how the relationship say there is a ' v ' in between their names " in the movie title , snyder says . having the " v " instead of " vs. " is a way " to keep it from being a straight ' versus ' movie , even in the most subtle way . "  batman v superman : dawn of justice is currently filming in detroit , although cavill and affleck have only filmed a few scenes together with snyder . " it 's never really been done and it 's kinda cool , " he admits .  like snyder , both cavill , 31 , and affleck , 41 , realize the magnitude of the movie .  " you can talk all you want about other superhero movies , but it 's batman and superman , let 's just be honest , " the filmmaker says of the dc comics characters . " i do n't know how you get bigger than that . "  your information may be shared with other nbcuniversal businesses and used to better tailor our services and advertising to you . see our privacy policy . if you are located outside of the u.s. , your information may be transferred to , processed and used in the u.s.