Local businessmen on initial list of Bucks minority investors
http://www.jsonline.com/sports/bucks/local-businessmen-on-initial-list-of-bucks-minority-investors-b99312090z1-267418721.html

las vegas -- milwaukee bucks co-owner wesley edens revealed wednesday an initial list of local investors in the franchise whom he called " blue-chip people " in the community .  the list does not include aaron rodgers , as had been speculated . edens said he and co-owner marc lasry have had " lots of conversation " with the green bay packers quarterback but " we 're not in a place to announce he 's an investor . " he said they would love to have rodgers involved with the bucks in " whatever capacity . "  " the goal we had in particular was to have a very robust group of people from milwaukee and wisconsin generally , " edens said in a phone interview from his new york office .  " we wanted people deeply committed to being part of the community . this is a blue-chip list of people and i could n't be more happy about it . "  the local investors joining the bucks include :  ? ted kellner , executive chairman and a portfolio manager at in 1980 . kellner also has been a longtime benefactor to the university of wisconsin and is leading a metropolitan milwaukee association of commerce panel studying plans for a new arena .  ? jim kacmarcik , president of kapco inc. , a family of companies that includes kapco metal stamping , advanced coatings , k-nation entertainment , and the lakeshore chinooks . kacmarcik is the lead donor to kapco park , the new stadium on the campus of concordia university and the home of the chinooks minor-league baseball team . he serves as president and majority owner of the chinooks of the northwoods league .  ? craig karmazin , the founder and chief executive officer of good karma brands , an integrated marketing company that specializes in sports marketing , customized events and wireless solutions . karmazin 's company owns and operates eight espn-affiliated radio stations , including one in the milwaukee area , wauk-am ( 540 ) .  ? mike kocourek , president of mid oaks investments in buffalo grove , ill . kocourek , a portfolio manager , also is involved in several civic enterprises in ceo of hal leonard corp. , a sheet music printing business . mardak , who has been a bucks season-ticket holder since the franchise 's inaugural season in 1968- ' 69 , serves on the board of directors for the boys &amp; girls clubs of greater milwaukee .  ? teddy werner , the vice president of business development for the milwaukee brewers and son of boston red sox chairman tom werner . the elder werner also is involved in the ownership of the liverpool football club in the english premier league .  lasry and edens , billionaire investors from new york , purchased the bucks in april from longtime owner herb kohl for $550 million . they , along with kohl , also pledged $100 million each toward a new arena that the nba is requiring for the bucks to remain in milwaukee .  it is not known how much of an investment was made by each of the local businessmen , though lasry indicated last month the nba wanted additional investors to make a minimum investment of $5 million in the franchise .  in addition to are involved in the ownership group , a source indicated .  and other investors could be added later . former bucks player junior bridgeman , a successful businessman in the fast-food industry , said tuesday night in a phone interview that he was considering being a part of the group .  " we 're really excited about rebuilding the fan base and getting representation locally , " edens said . he also said the group of investors can help " move the arena down the tracks " due to its community involvement .  edens said even if rodgers , an ardent bucks supporter sometimes seen at games , is not an investor , " we 're very hopeful in having a long-term relationship with him , whatever capacity that takes . "  " he can sit in my seats any time he wants , " edens said . " he can sit with me . "  edens also talked about the arena update he gave at the nba board of governors meeting tuesday in las vegas .  edens said he and lasry have met with ideas from the arena planning for the golden state warriors and sacramento kings . both franchises are building new downtown arenas , with the warriors planning a move from oakland to san francisco .  edens said he has looked at different sites in milwaukee but his preference is a downtown location .  " milwaukee is blessed to have a handful of different alternatives , " edens said . " we toured the lakefront . my preference is to be in the middle of downtown .  " the lakefront is spectacular in july . i 'm not sure how spectacular it will be in february . "  edens said it 's a step-by-step process in getting the arena plans underway .  " our no. 1 goal is site selection . that 's front and center , " he said . " once we get the site nailed down , then we can see what the available space will be and can focus on the design . "