7 traits of people who are great at relationships
http://www.mnn.com/family/family-activities/blogs/7-traits-of-people-who-are-great-at-relationships

7 traits of people who are great at relationships  relating to your partner , spouse or significant other can be challenging . here 's what the people who make it work know that you may not .  most people in healthy relationships share a few key traits . ( photo : blend images/shutterstock )  by now , i hope that everyone has gotten the message that relationships are n't easy . if you expect that having a close , loving bond with another human being over the span of months or years is going to be all pretty relfies ( that 's a relationship selfie ) and sunshine , you will be hugely disappointed .  but a great romantic relationship , while needing care and feeding ( from both parties ) , should also be fun and joyful -- if it 's a drag to be with your beloved all the time , something 's wrong . like many other things in life , some people are better at relationships than others . how do they do it ? most of them share and accept their partners for who they are : yes , people can change , but not all that much . so if you are constantly trying to motivate your spouse to do something small that they do n't want to do , like exercise more , or quit smoking , or be more assertive about their needs at work , that 's awesome , because that 's the kind of work partners should do for each other . supporting each other in what we want to do in life is a beautiful thing . but the wholesale changing someone who , say , likes to surf more than she likes to work into a career-focused individual , trying to make a city guy into a country-living fan , or convincing someone who does n't want kids that they should have them is dangerous , and you 're bound to be disappointed when -- shocker -- they continue to be themselves . you can help your partner change small things about who they are , but if you are n't into a major aspect of someone 's personality , you should they do n't skimp on the snuggling : like most mammals , human beings have a strong desire to be held and touched by the people closest to us -- regular physical connections are incredibly important , and that 's proven by science . according to a psychology today essay on the literature about affection and happiness , " there was no connection between the amount of physical affection and amount of conflict for a couple , but cuddling/holding , kissing on the lips , and hugging were all associated with how easily the couple resolves the conflict they do experience . "  they really listen : cultivating good listening skills is good for all kinds of relationships , from those with your siblings and parents to those with your friends . but so many people tune their spouses out -- the very people who need and deserve your focused attention . what 's a greater act of love than really taking the time to listen to what someone you love has to say ?  they do n't expect their partner to " make them happy " : only must do from the inside . of course , you can ask for love and support from your partner to achieve goals that will make you happier , like request daily meditation time , or time off for a retreat , or whatever else you need to get to a happier place , but you are the only one ultimately responsible for your happiness .  they are generous : being giving is a daily way to show love for your partner ; that does n't have to mean buying presents or expensive jewelry -- it does mean giving them the bigger slice of pie , bringing them a cup of tea , or rubbing their shoulders when they are stressed . regular generosity shows your partner they are loved , in a small , quiet ways .  they talk it out -- and keep talking : everyone always says " honest communication is key " -- but few do the work to make that a reality . having fights or disagreements is natural and healthy . it 's what you do after them that matters . talk it out really feel ) and listen closely . keep going . keep listening . then keep talking , until whatever it is that made you angry or sad is past , and you are actually talking and listening about the deeper issues that got you fired up to begin with . this is real work ; it is hard , but it is incredibly rewarding , bringing you closer to your partner and bringing a greater understanding of yourself and them .  they are genuine : it 's easy to start a relationship based on a shiny-happy-perfect version of who you are ( who would n't be attracted to that ? ) . but it 's dishonest , and over the long term , you will have to keep up the facade ( not healthy , and exhausting ! ) . or you will eventually show your true colors and have to renegotiate the relationship from the new perspective . be yourself from the beginning and everyone will know what they are getting into . yes , some people might not like you , and that 's really ok .  are theirs alone , and do not reflect the opinions of mnn.com . while we have reviewed their content to make sure it complies with our terms and conditions , mnn is not responsible for the accuracy of any of their information .