Thinking of borrowing? Low mortgage rates may be poised to rise
http://www.latimes.com/business/realestate/la-fi-0830-mortgage-rate-lock-20140830-story.html

Via @latimes : If you 're borrowing to buy a house , there 's almost never been a better time to do it  If you 're borrowing to buy a house , there 's almost never been a better time to do it .  Interest rates on an average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage hit 4.1% this week , a low for the year , according to lending giant Freddie Mac .  They 've been bouncing in the low 4% range for months , not quite record territory but not far from it . It 's helping to ease the pain of home prices that have climbed by one-third in Southern California over the last two years .  But at some point -- and fairly soon , forecasters say -- these cheap money days will end . When they do , the stop-and-start housing recovery could face the kind of hurdle it has n't seen in a long time .  Low rates have propped up the housing market for years now . But with the Federal Reserve ending its so-called " quantitative easing " many market watchers are predicting rates will start to rise again soon . This time next year , the Mortgage Bankers Assn. projects , the average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage will be 5.2% , its highest level since early 2010 .  At today 's 4.1% rate , the monthly payment on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with 20% down at Los Angeles County 's median price of $457,500 would be $1,768 , according to Bankrate.com 's mortgage calculator . Add a point and the monthly payment climbs to $2,009 .  That extra $241 a month is no small thing for a housing market that 's already struggling with affordability issues , said Leslie Appleton-Young , chief economist at the California Assn. of Realtors .  " It 's going to worsen affordability , " she said . " All else remaining the same , higher rates are going to make it more difficult for people to get into housing . "  And coming after years of low rates -- when many homeowners either bought a house with a relatively cheap mortgage or refinanced into one -- fairly tight by historical standards .  Roughly half of the nation 's 50 million home mortgages have interest rates at or below the current rates , said Mark Fleming , chief economist at real estate data firm CoreLogic . So if rates go up , buying anew would mean a more costly mortgage .  " That means you do n't have a lot of incentive to sell your home , " he said . " That could lead to a lack of supply going forward . "  It would be the reverse of a broader trend the housing market has enjoyed for 30 years now , Fleming notes , a period when interest rates have moved generally downward from 18% in the early 1980s to as low as 3% early last year . In that time , he said , tens of millions of people have been able to sell a house and buy a new one at a cheaper interest rate , essentially getting more house for the same money . If rates start trending upward , that will flip .  " That 's what 's Not that homeowners could n't benefit in other ways . Tight supply could well boost prices , Fleming notes , which could be a bigger incentive to sell than the higher rates are a deterrent to buy . If rates rise quickly , it 's likely a sign of inflation and wage growth , which could help more people afford a house . And people will buy and sell houses for all the non-financial reasons they always have , from growing families to new jobs to simply wanting to move .  " Will it be more difficult ? Yes . Will people buy a smaller home ? Maybe , " Fleming said . " But we expect there 's going to be a black-and-white answer , and market forces do n't always work that way . "  Indeed , when rates start to rise , there may well be a flurry of sales as buyers rush to lock in lower payments while they still can , said Mark Goldman , a mortgage broker who teaches real estate at San Diego State University .  In the long run , help to damp home sales , which are already running well below historical averages . But they 'll be balanced out by clearer lending guidelines and slightly looser credit requirements . And mostly , Goldman said , they 'll be taking place in a market that -- after years of booms and busts -- appears to be behaving somewhat normally .  " We 're in a period of extraordinary equilibrium right now , " he said . " Do n't panic . "