Your Survival Depends on Following Up on Internet Leads -- Fast
http://www.entrepreneur.com/article/236916

Digital-media advertising is now bigger than national-TV advertising and is expected to exceed total TV advertising spending by 2018 . This shift to digital is driving an unprecedented number of customers to websites and landing pages . This is also creating new problems and bigger opportunities for entrepreneurs that can figure out how to effectively respond to these prospects .  How big is the opportunity ? Well , have you ever reached out to a business 's website , filled out a form showing interest only to be completely ignored ? Of course you have . In fact , 65 percent of all companies admit that they have no process to nurture leads .  I recently created a mystery-shop campaign to show companies just how big this problem and opportunity is . Three companies with three completely different products hired me to evaluate their website response and sales teams .  One was a luxury jewelry store , another a large group of automotive dealerships , and the third was a service company . The automobile dealership sent an automated response to the lead and days .  Having looked into this follow-up problem , I can tell you it is massive . Did you know 44 percent of all sales people give up after one follow-up call ? Who allows this to happen ? Companies that nurture leads have 47 percent higher profit margins than companies that do not . This means prospects put the value on quick response , not on lowest price .  Smaller businesses and solo entrepreneurs often point the finger to limited infrastructure to handle follow up , but the reality is if you are a small-business owner , this is where you need to invest . I know what it 's like to be a one-man show because I was one for too many years . But in order to survive , I made sure I followed up fast and over long periods of time .  Why do salespeople and companies fail to follow up ? My company surveyed over 800 sales people and 500 businesses that said they do n't follow up because there are too many leads , leads are cold by the time they get follow up .  The reality is there is no commitment to follow up . The culture of your company has made it OK not to follow up . Now , in defense of the sales team , if your salespeople do n't know how to effectively follow up , what to say , how to text , when to email , when to call , when to offer more information or simple things like how to get the lead on the phone , then how can you even make a second call , much less the five to 12 calls necessary to convert the Internet lead to a purchase ?