What's Up With That: Why Running Hurts Every Part of Your Body
http://www.wired.com/2014/12/whats-up-with-that-running-hurts/

Caption : A sea of feet pound the pavement as runners cross the Pulaski Bridge to enter the Queens borough of New York during the New York City Marathon on Sunday , Nov. 2 , 2014 , in New York . Kathy Kmonicek/AP  What 's Up With That : Why Running Hurts Every Part of Your Body  A sea of feet pound the pavement as runners cross the Pulaski Bridge to enter the Queens borough of New York during the New York City Marathon on Sunday , Nov. 2 , 2014 , in New York . Kathy Kmonicek/AP  I 'm already dreading my New Years resolution , and it 's still weeks away . Like millions of other Americans , I 'm going to start working out -- specifically , running . I love the way running makes me feel , but only when I 'm not running . This is because even when I 'm racking up modest mileage , my legs burn , my chest itches , and my lungs feel like they 're filled with a thousand burning matches .  we 'll explain the science behind a strange phenomenon that you may be wondering about , or may be hearing about for the first time right here . If you 've seen or heard of something you 'd like us to explain , send us an email . View the entire collection .  I want to be a runner , but even Bruce Springsteen 's exercise anthem " Born to Run " ca n't get me excited . ( What 's that ? The song is actually about teenage angst ? Oh , maybe that 's why . ) I do n't want these factors to derail my resolution . To find out why running feels so sucky ( and hopefully make it suck less ) , I called Steven Magness , coach to several Olympians and the University of Houston cross country team , and author of the book The Science of Running .  The seven-step itch  I do n't want to totally shock my system once January 1st comes around , so I 'm going to prepare myself with short jogs before New Year 's . complaints flooded in from every part of my body . The first came from my skin . I had n't made it to the end of my block before my chest started itching . It was like someone had stuffed my shirt full of wood chips . What 's actually happening , says Magness , is blood flowing into tiny unused capillaries in my skin . In non-runners like me , these capillaries are dormant . When they get flooded with blood irregularly , they swell . This irritates nearby nerve endings , which sends itchy sensations to the brain .  Burning muscles  Not long after this , a familiar fire started burning inside my leg muscles . Magness assured me that even top runners feel the burn . It 's caused by a buildup of lactic acid , but is really a signal your muscle is using to let your brain know it 's running out of energy . " Pain is feedback for your brain to let you know how hard you 're working , " Magness said . Thing is , this pain signal typically comes , and eventually the burn will simmer down , says Magness . Eventually , you 'll build up enough endurance that your muscles wo n't freak out so soon .  Side stitches  Not long after I pushed through the burning in my legs , I was assaulted by side cramps . Like a big , invisible hand had grabbed the side of my belly , I doubled over and immediately started walking with my hands on top of my head . The pain subsided , but left me wondering where it came from to begin with . For a while , says Magness , researchers thought was that side stitches would come from the body getting low on electrolytes like sodium and potassium . But , studies showed that electrolyte-depleted athletes are no more prone to side cramps as those drinking healthy amounts of Gatorade .  Currently , says Magness , there are two prevailing hypotheses . The first is that running causes you to strain a ligament connecting your diaphragm to the abdominal muscles . " When you 're running , your diaphragm is working harder than is also tied to the abdominal muscles , but has to do with a decrease in calcium , which can prevent muscles from relaxing .  Gasping for air  Not long after my legs started burning , the fire spread to my lungs and I began gasping for air . This happens , says Magness , because our bodies are n't perfect at cycling CO2 out of our lungs . " You are breathing so intensely that you ca n't get all of the bad air out , " Magness said . Even when you 're breathing normally , there 's never a perfect exchange of oxygen to carbon . With running , your muscles get so starved for air that they do n't leave you time to exhale completely . Eventually you build up such a huge deficit that you get a burning sensation similar to holding your breath . " At this point , you stop , and bend over , and suck in , and you can finally catch up , " Magness said .  " Bubbleguts "  I had planned a two-mile run , I 'd catch my breath while looking at beautiful San Francisco , then return . I did n't make it so far because my tummy started burbling before I was close to the first sloping street . I ended up speed walking the last few blocks home . " This is pretty common , " Magness graciously told me . Many runners also get gassy because their bodies are breaking down energy ( in the form of sugary carbohydrates , solid proteins , or rich fats ) , causing muscles cells to release gas . A lot of this gas ends up not making it to the lungs , where it can be expired without embarrassment . As Magness tactfully put it : " Gas gets stuck in places where it should n't be , and you got ta get it out some way . " Also , he says , the mechanical jarring of running helps along the digestion process .  Magness says these problems are most common with beginning runners , but even the Olympians he coaches admit to suffering . So maybe I was n't born to alone in my misery . Maybe one day I can catch up to the pros , and take my complaining to a whole new level .