U. of C. aims to expand treatment at children's trauma center
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/breaking/ct-u-of-chicago-trauma-center-20141209-story.html

u. of c. aims to expand treatment at children 's trauma center  u. of c. trauma unit to expand age to 16 and 17-year-olds  stephen weber , chief medical officer at the university of chicago 's medical center , talks about the decision to allow seriously injured 16- and 17-year-olds to receive care at the pediatric trauma unit .  stephen weber , chief medical officer at the university of chicago 's medical center , talks about the decision to allow seriously injured 16- and 17-year-olds to receive care at the pediatric trauma unit .  patrick m. o'connell and lolly boweanchicago tribune  community members and activists have been pushing u. of c. to allow increased trauma care access .  the university of chicago 's comer children 's hospital is taking steps to raise the age limit for patients admitted to its pediatric trauma unit , a move to expand care to 16- and 17-year-olds who are seriously injured .  community members and activists have been pushing the u. of c. for more access to trauma care for years , citing a injured patients , including victims of violence .  on tuesday , neighborhood leaders and activists counted a hospital announcement as a victory .  the move means that hundreds more young people who are injured can receive emergency care closer to their own homes , said veronica morris-moore , a youth organizer and activist from woodlawn .  " if there is any community that needs treatment for trauma , it is the south side , " said morris-moore as she stood outside the front entrance of the university 's medical center on east 58th street and south maryland avenue . " although this is a victory for the coalition , it is not our end goal . it is not our main goal . our main goal is that the south side of chicago be provided with a level one trauma center . "  advocates say the expanded pediatric care center is needed to serve the community and victims of violence who often are transported miles away for specialized medical care . the extra miles can mean the difference between life and death .  university of chicago thinking about the expanded pediatric trauma center before recent demonstrations , but heard the desires of the activists . the pediatric trauma center at comer children 's hospital currently admits children 15 and younger , which is how the state defines pediatric patients .  " we listen closely to all of the voices in the community , " she said . " absolutely we heard their voice . "  medical center leaders plan to submit formal plans to the state health department within the next few months and hope to begin treating additional patients within a year , o'keefe said . the hospital will have to hire additional medical personnel , since o'keefe anticipates the hospital serving close to 120 additional patients a year .  " this will mean more accessibility , more availability and an extension of the services of our clinical team to more members of the community , " o'keefe said .  trauma center funding  armando l. sanchez , chicago tribune  protesters march over the lack of funding for a trauma center at the university of chicago on the school 's campus a trauma center at the university of chicago on the school 's campus . ( armando l. sanchez , chicago tribune )  community residents , some university of chicago students and activists for youth have been rallying for a south side trauma unit since august 2010 . the activists also have tied the trauma center issue to the university 's bid for a possible library for president barack obama , drawing national attention .  " this is a strategic move to combat some of the things we exposed , " morris-moore said . " i do think this is a step towards showing themselves as deserving of the library . i hope they do n't think this is the only step it takes . "  although conversations about the need for a south side trauma center have gone on for years , the more recent protests gained urgency after the shooting death of damian turner , an 18-year-old activist who had to be rushed to northwestern memorial hospital for care after he was shot . his friends and family believe turner would have survived if he had gotten the shooting occurred .  activists targeted the university in part because the school is surrounded by neighborhoods marked by poverty and violence . as those residents struggled , the university boasted a billion dollar endowment and announced plans to raise even more for its medical center .  " we clearly have the capacity to absorb this expansion , " said dr. philip verhoef , an intensive care unit physician at the u. of c. and one of several doctors and medical staff who have joined in the fight to expand the hospital 's reach . " we can see all day , everyday , the effect of not having trauma services . we recognize there is an injustice there . the university has the resources to at least contribute to being a solution . "  university officials said the decision came after years of talking about how the medical center can more effectively serve its neighbors , but said pressure from activists also played a role in the decision .  " this has been part of an ongoing discussion and consideration really over the last several years for the medical center .  the u. of c. has an emergency room in addition to the pediatric trauma center , but its adult trauma center closed more than 25 years ago , creating a so-called trauma desert on the south side . eight of cook county 's nine level one trauma centers serving adults are north or west of downtown . the south and southwest sides and the county 's southern suburbs are served by advocate christ medical center in oak lawn .  many victims of violence in south side neighborhoods , including teens , end up being transported to trauma centers at either northwestern memorial hospital on the near north side or cook county-owned stroger hospital on the west side . northwestern can treat trauma patients from as far as 12 miles away .