Study: 270000 Tons of Trash a Whale of a Problem for World's Oceans
http://www.usnews.com/news/newsgram/articles/2014/12/12/study-270-000-tons-of-trash-a-whale-of-a-problem-for-worlds-oceans

That 's equivalent to the weight of about 1,350 blue whales .  A new study of the world 's oceans suggests the large bodies of water that cover more than 70 percent of the Earth 's surface are home to nearly 270,000 tons of garbage .  The report , published in the scientific journal PLOS ONE , estimates more than 5 trillion particles of plastic debris are adrift in the Earth 's oceans -- able to fill more than 38,500 garbage trucks , according to The Associated Press .  And that estimate only scratches the surface of ocean pollution -- literally . Researchers voyaged throughout 1,571 individual locations between 2007 and 2013 in the South Pacific , North Pacific , South Atlantic and Indian Oceans , along with the waters around Australia , according to the report .  Researchers dragged a mesh net along the top of the water to collect plastic samples . Spotters on the boat itself counted larger pieces of plastic not picked up by the net . Their findings were then extrapolated to estimate the amount of plastic floating that our estimates are highly conservative , and may be considered minimum estimates , " according to the report . " They also do not account for the potentially massive amount of plastic present on shorelines , on the seabed , suspended in the water column and within organisms . "  The presence of floating debris in the world 's oceans is far from a new discovery . A collection of two primary Great Pacific Garbage Patches float between California and Hawaii and off the coast of Southeast Asia , respectively , according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association . Some have estimated that the collections of floating trash could be twice the size of Texas .  Plastic is carried through the world 's oceans by wind and water currents . But research into what happens once plastic waste is set adrift is relatively limited . Pieces of plastic between 1 millimeter and 4.75 millimeters were the most common type of garbage picked up during this study , suggesting plastic eventually breaks down into smaller pieces once out to sea , according to The Washington Post .  a growing threat of toxin-laden microplastics cycling through the entire marine ecosystem , " said lead author Marcus Eriksen , according to The Post .  These smaller pieces of plastic can be ingested by marine life , potentially poisoning the rest of the food chain all the way up to humans .  " Am I being poisoned by eating the fish on my plate ? " said Kara Lavender Law , a research professor and principal investigator at Sea Education Association , according to the AP . " We have very little knowledge of the chain of events that could lead to that . But it 's a plausible scenario that plastic ingested at lower levels of the food web could have consequences at higher levels of the food chain . "