Windstorm cleanup continues after noisy night of gusts
http://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/windstorm-cleanup-continues-after-noisy-night-of-gusts/

the windstorm that blew through western washington thursday night and early friday left behind a mess of debris , thousands without power and the threat of mudslides .  friday afternoon , puget sound energy crews scrambled to clear downed trees and restore power to more than 30,000 customers .  pse spokeswoman akiko oda said the storm affected nearly 251,000 customers with the hardest hit areas being kingston and hansville in kitsap county ; south whidbey island ; yelm and south thurston county ; and woodinville .  at 7:30 p.m . friday , 24,500 pse customers remained without power . crews were working to repair poles , lines and equipment in 163 locations in the utility 's service area .  seattle city light said just under 2,500 were in the dark as of 4:30 a.m. , friday . power was restored to all but five customers about an hour later .  national weather service meteorologist johnny burg said winds overnight during the storm reached 49 mph at seattle-tacoma international airport , 62 mph at paine field in everett and 69 at the whidbey weather is to blame for recent landslides , but with a weekend of dry and sunny weather in the forecast , the danger of additional slides will diminish .  a mudslide hit bnsf railway tracks at 12:30 a.m . friday near edmonds . the tracks were cleared , and freight trains resumed running at 3 a.m. , said bnsf spokesman gus melonas . a 48-hour safety moratorium will prevent passenger trains from rolling between seattle and everett this weekend . buses will bridge the service .  amtrak said passenger service between seattle and everett will resume sunday . sound transit said sounder commuter-train service will resume monday if there are no other slides .  on friday , redmond officials were trying to figure out what caused the collapse of scaffolding at an apartment building under construction in the 8300 block of 160th avenue north . the scaffolding fell around 8 p.m . thursday during the storm , when wind speeds were about 20 mph , police said .  friday evening , 160th avenue northeast from northeast 83rd and northeast 85th was still closed for cleanup and investigation residents of six apartments across the street were evacuated because of damage to their homes .  " public works and the fire department deemed these units were not safe because of flying debris , " said janessa rosick , spokeswoman for redmond police .  the evacuees stayed at a nearby hotel , paid for by the company building the new apartment complex , rosick said .  they were allowed back into their homes friday morning .  effects of the storm were still being felt friday morning . the point defiance/tahlequah ferry route was out of service until around 11 a.m. because of storm damage to the tahlequah terminal , according to washington state ferries .  authorities warned drivers to be on the lookout for fallen trees or wires during the morning commute .  the northshore , everett , south whidbey , bethel and toledo school districts were either closed or on modified schedules as a result of the storm .  in the northshore school district , seven schools were closed friday because of power outages.