Aqua Otters looking for members
http://www.mjtimes.sk.ca/Sports/Other-Sports/2012-09-26/article-3084325/Aqua-Otters-looking-for-members%0D

The Moose Jaw Aqua Otters Synchro Club is a new organization in the city and are looking for interested swimmers to join .  The club is in support from Synchro Saskatchewan and both are working together to create opportunities for all children to participate in the sport .  " This is our second year and we are really excited about it , " said Corrine Damaskie , a parent member on the committee . " Synchronized swimming is a great way to keep kids healthy , happy and active . "  The club started last September and Synchro Sask sought out girls that were interested . From September to May last year , the club had about eight girls that completed the program . They also are developing a Masters program and already have three adult women currently enrolled .  " We are still considered a rec club , but if there are girls interested in going to the competitive level , our coach Angela Bellerive is from Regina and is designated from Synchro Sask and can coach those interested in going competitive five and up for those that are interested and although they do n't need to have a lot of experience in the water , Damaskie recommends that all swimmers be comfortable in the water .  " All of our girls love coming out to swim . If you are tired of that same old swimming lesson and are looking for something a little more creative or artistic , synchronized swimming is the thing for you , " the club mentioned in a press release .  All coaches are registered with the Red Cross and are working on leveling up their swim lessons .  The club practices every Saturday from 10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. and Tuesday evenings from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at 15 Wing .  Classes began on Sept. 22 , but spots are still open . There is a cost of $250 , but that cost will go up after Jan. 5 .  Since the club is a recreation organization , there are no competitions that the team goes to , however , they do go to pre-swims where they are not judged travel for those that want to compete in those pre-swims .  The club 's seasonal objectives includes having fun , physical development , respect for others and self , development of synchronized swimming skills , foster an environment that inspires teamwork and friendships , develop coaching through mentoring and athletes performing at personal best level .  For those that want more information or a registration form can either come to the pool at 15 Wing during the practice times or can contact Amanda at 694-5658 .  The programming of the club is in accordance with Synchro Sask and the branch of swimming .