Airport security an international effort, Toronto symposium hears
http://www.torontosun.com/2012/09/26/airport-security-an-international-effort-toronto-symposium-hears

related stories  topics  canada plays a vital role in airport security and the ongoing fight against terror , says a well-known u.s. cop who arrested the " underwear bomber " on christmas day 2009 .  " we are all inter-connected , " chief edward glomb told the toronto sun on wednesday . " some of the 9/11 hijackers had tried to enter the u.s. from canada . "  glomb , of wayne county airport authority police dept. , was an incident commander in the attempted bombing of delta airlines flight 253 that was travelling to detroit when a man tried to detonate a bomb in his underwear in a bathroom .  umar farouk abdulmutallab , of nigeria , is serving a life sentence for trying to blow up a u.s. airliner .  the bomb caused a fire but failed to explode on the jet that was carrying 289 people .  " we were very concerned about another 9/11 and thought others ( with bombs ) were coming , " glomb said at the first international airport investigators ' training symposium officers from 75 agencies attending the symposium at an airport-area hotel are hearing from a " who 's who " in aviation security .  many of the sessions , which wrap up thursday , are held in camera due to the top secret information being discussed .  u.s. department of homeland security officials are concerned that the laundering of drug cash is on the rise and organized crime groups are seeking ways to smuggle the loot across borders .  u.s. police said millions of dollars are being smuggled across their border yearly to fund terror activities .  " financial institutions have clamped down on criminal activity , " said  special agent joseph burke , of homeland security 's national bulk cash  smuggling center . " criminals are forced to load up vehicles or people to smuggle cash . "  burke said crime groups in canada are sending pot to the u.s. and the cash from sale of the cannabis can be used to buy cocaine , which is brought back over the border .  neil armstrong , of air canada corporate security , the 9/11 attacks have acted as a deterrent to drug dealers . as a result , drug seizures have decreased during recent years .  " there is a lot more attention now being placed on airline security , "  armstrong said on wednesday .  his officials are also responsible for checking the travel documents of passengers before they board a flight abroad .