'Moon River' crooner Andy Williams dead at 84
http://www.ctvnews.ca/entertainment/moon-river-crooner-andy-williams-dead-at-84-1.971938

' Moon River ' crooner Andy Williams dead at 84  BRANSON , Mo . -- For the older -- OK , squarer -- side of the generation gap , Andy Williams was part of the soundtrack of the 1960s and ' 70s , with easy-listening hits like " Moon River , " the " Love Story " theme and " The Most Wonderful Time of the Year " from his beloved Christmas TV specials .  The singer known for his wholesome , middle-America appeal was the antithesis of the counterculture .  " The old cliche says that if you can remember the 1960s , you were n't there , " Williams once recalled . " Well , I was there all right , but my memory of them is blurred -- not by any drugs I took but by the relentless pace of the schedule I set myself . "  The 84-year-old entertainer , who died Tuesday night at his Branson home following a yearlong battle with bladder cancer , outlasted many of the decade 's rock stars and fellow crooners such as charts into the 1970s and continued to perform into his 80s .  Williams became a major star in 1956 , the same year as Elvis Presley , with the Sinatra-like swing number " Canadian Sunset . " For a time , he was pushed into such Presley imitations as " Lips of Wine " and the No. 1 smash " Butterfly . "  But he mostly stuck to what he called his " natural style " and kept it up throughout his career . In 1970 , when even Sinatra had temporarily retired , Williams was in the top 10 with the theme from " Love Story , " the Oscar-winning tearjerker . He had 18 gold records , three platinum and five Grammy award nominations .  Williams was also the first host of the live Grammy awards telecast and hosted the show for seven consecutive years , beginning in 1971 .  Movie songs became a specialty , including his signature " Moon River . " The longing Johnny Mercer-Henry Mancini ballad was his most famous song , even though he never released it as a single huckleberry friend " were too confusing and old-fashioned for teens .  The song was first performed by Audrey Hepburn in the cherished 1961 film " Breakfast at Tiffany 's , " but Mancini thought " Moon River " ideal for Williams , who recorded it in " pretty much one take " and also sang it at the 1962 Academy Awards . Although " Moon River " was covered by countless artists and became a hit single for Jerry Butler , Williams made the song his personal brand . In fact , he insisted on it .  " When I hear anybody else sing it , it 's all I can to do stop myself from shouting at the television screen , ' No ! That 's my song ! " ' Williams wrote in his 2009 memoir titled , fittingly , " Moon River and Me . "  At a Wednesday matinee at Williams ' Moon River Theatre in Branson , a performer told the crowd that Williams would have wanted the show to go on , and it did . The first show after his death Take My Eyes Off of You . "  " It was very emotional , very sad , " said Barbara Cox of Atlanta , who came to Branson on vacation . " We 've lost a great man . "  Carol and Ruth Harding , sisters who travelled from suburban Denver to attend a second show Wednesday evening , said they 've been Williams fans since they were teenagers . The women , both in their early 70s and married to brothers , said they 'd seen him perform numerous times , including 10 trips to his Christmas show .  " It 's not going to be the same without him , " Ruth Harding said . " It 's like losing a family member . He 's been part of our family . "  Because of illness , Williams had not performed in several months  He had been a constant presence on television with " The Andy Williams Show , " which lasted in various formats through the 1960s and into 1971 . It won three Emmys and featured Williams alternately performing his stable of on that show that Williams -- who launched his own career as part of an all-brother quartet -- introduced the world to another clean-cut act -- the original four singing Osmond Brothers of Utah . Four decades later , the Osmonds and Williams would find themselves in close proximity again , sharing Williams ' theatre in Branson .  Williams did book some rock and soul acts , including the Beach Boys , the Temptations and Smokey Robinson . On one show , in 1970 , Williams sang " Heaven Help Us All " with Ray Charles , Mama Cass and a then-little known Elton John , a vision to Williams in his rhinestone glasses and black cape . But Williams liked him and his breakthrough hit " Your Song " enough to record it himself .  For many families , Williams and his music were a holiday tradition . His annual Christmas specials continued long after his show ended , featuring Williams dressed in colorful sweaters singing favourites that almost always included " The Most Wonderful Time of the Year , " a song written for Williams that became apparently , not an act . The singer 's unflappable manner on television and in concert was mirrored offstage .  " I guess I 've never really been aggressive , although almost everybody else in show business fights and gouges and knees to get where they want to be , " he once said . " My trouble is , I 'm not constructed temperamentally along those lines . "  His wholesome image endured one jarring interlude .  In 1976 , his ex-wife , former Las Vegas showgirl Claudine Longet , shot and killed her lover , skiing champion Spider Sabich . The Rolling Stones mocked the tragedy in " Claudine , " a song so pitiless that it was n't released until decades later . Longet , who said the slaying was an accident , spent only a week in jail . Williams stood by her . He escorted her to the courthouse , testified on her behalf and provided support for her and their children , Noelle , Christian and Robert .  Also in the 1970s , Williams was seen frequently in the company of denied any romantic involvement .  He was born Howard Andrew Williams in Wall Lake , Iowa , on Dec. 3 , 1927 , and began performing with older brothers Dick , Bob and Don in the local Presbyterian church choir . Their father , postal worker and insurance man Jay Emerson Williams , was the choirmaster and the force behind his children 's career .  When Andy was 8 , Williams ' father arranged for the kids to have an audition on Des Moines radio station WHO 's Iowa Barn Dance . They were initially turned down but kept returning until they were finally accepted . The show attracted attention from Chicago , Cincinnati and Hollywood . Another star at WHO was a young sportscaster named Ronald Reagan , who would later praise Williams as a " national treasure . "  The brothers later worked with Kay Thompson , a singer who eventually became famous for the " Eloise " children 's books . She had taken a position as vocal coach at MGM studios , working with Judy Garland , June Allyson and others . After three in their show at the El Rancho Room in Las Vegas , drawing rave reviews and as much as $25,000 a week .  After five years , the three older brothers , who were starting their own families , had tired of the constant travel and left to pursue other careers .  Williams initially struggled as a solo act and was so broke at one point that he resorted to eating food intended for his two dogs .  A two-year TV stint on Steve Allen 's " Tonight Show " and a contract with Cadence Records turned things around . Williams later formed his own label , Barnaby Records , which released music by the Everly Brothers , Ray Stevens and Jimmy Buffett .  Williams was a lifelong Republican who once accused President Barack Obama of " following Marxist theory . " But he acknowledged experimenting with LSD , opposed the Nixon administration 's efforts in the 1970s to deport John Lennon and in 1968 was an energetic supporter of Robert Kennedy 's presidential campaign .  When Kennedy was assassinated in Los Angeles in June 1968 sang " The Battle Hymn of the Republic " at his funeral .  " We chose that song because he used it on the campaign trail , " Williams later said of Kennedy , who had been a close friend . " He had a terrible voice , but he loved to sing that song . The only way I got through singing in church that day was by saying , ' This is my job . I ca n't let emotion get in the way of the song . ' I really concentrated on not thinking about him . "  After giving up touring , he settled in Branson , with its dozens of theatres featuring live music , comedy and magic acts , and was among the first wave of national entertainers to perform there regularly .  When he arrived in 1992 , the town was dominated by country music , but Williams changed that with his classy , $13 million theatre in the heart of the entertainment district , where he did two shows a night , six days a week , nine months of back to one show a night . His most popular time was Christmas .  Not everyone in Hollywood accepted his move to the Midwest . " The fact is most of my friends in LA still think I 'm nuts for coming here , " he told The Associated Press in 1998 .  He and his second wife , the former Debbie Haas , divided their time between homes in Branson and Palm Springs , California , where he spent his leisure hours on the golf course when Branson 's theatres were dark during the winter months following Christmas .  Retirement was not on his schedule . As he told the AP in 2001 : " I 'll keep going until I get to the point where I ca n't get out on stage . "