Social worker wants interview in Phoenix Sinclair case kept ...
http://www.torontosun.com/2012/09/26/social-worker-wants-interview-in-phoenix-sinclair-case-kept-confidential

winnipeg -- a veteran manitoba child and family services worker says she faces extreme workplace backlash if manitoba 's highest court agrees to make public a full transcript of an interview she took part in with lawyers in advance of her testimony at the phoenix sinclair inquiry .  " i fear what will happen to me , " debbie de gale states in a sworn statement recently filed with the manitoba court of appeal . " i believe that certain co-workers and management from cfs will be upset with me and may react negatively to me , based on what i shared becoming public , " de gale said .  tuesday , justice marc monnin granted de gale the right to present a written case for the court 's consideration . she hopes to keep her pre-interview transcript confidential and available only as a privileged internal document for use and reference by inquiry lawyers .  a group of four cfs authorities and others are battling to see about 12,000 pages of transcripts disclosed and are challenging inquiry commissioner ted hughes 's aug. 1 decision only created to assist inquiry lawyers in preparing so-called will-say summaries of anticipated witness testimony . the interviews were not conducted under oath .  the court agreed to hear the cfs group 's case on sept. 7 , putting the kibosh on public testimony at the already-delayed inquiry after 2 1/2 days of public hearings . an appeals court panel will hear arguments oct. 9 , but it 's unclear when the inquiry will actually resume .  de gale says she anxiously , but willingly , told inquiry lawyers derek olson and sherri walsh the truth about her work at winnipeg cfs and her knowledge of phoenix 's case in her pre-interview . she has worked for the city child-welfare agency since 1997 .  key to her case is how she spoke freely after being assured the " word for word " record would remain private .  essentially , a deal 's a deal , she says .  " i feel that if the transcripts are now disclosed after i was provided the assurances , it is like i was tricked into sharing openly and freely had i known that the transcript from my interview would ultimately be disclosed , i would have chosen to share far less than i did , " she said .  de gale , a social worker since 1986 , states her pre-interview was conducted over two days -- broken up by olson and walsh , she says , to allow her to hire a lawyer part-way through . the reason , she was told , was because " some of the statements i had made contradicted information provided by other witnesses during their interviews , " she said .  the inquiry 's first phase will examine the services phoenix sinclair did or did n't receive from cfs , other circumstances directly related to her 2005 murder at a home on the fisher river first nation and why it went undiscovered for months . she was a ward of child and family services for much of her short life , but was not in care when she died .  phoenix 's mother , samantha kematch and her boyfriend , karl mckay , were convicted in 2008 of first-degree murder @ @ @ @ @