Iqaluit closes pool indefinitely for repair work on leaks
http://www.nunatsiaqonline.ca/stories/article/65674repairs_mean_iqaluit_closes_city_pool_down_until_june/

Now , a report has come back from Concentric Associates International that has forced Iqaluit 's recreation director , Amy Elgersma , to close the pool 's doors indefinitely .  " We have some info about what needs to be done , and the needed repairs are quite extensive , " Elgersma said .  So , the pool is closing at least for its entire " session , " which extends from October until January .  " Everyone is pretty disappointed that the pool wo n't be open and that lessons are cancelled this season . And we 'll do our best to inform the public as to what 's happening , " Elgersma said .  A specific cost to fix the pool is not yet available , Elgersma said , adding she will provide an update at the next city council meeting , to be held Nov. 6 .  However , all those who signed up for swimming programs or lessons will get their money back . Reimbursements will be mailed out either this week or next , Elgersma said . will also lose out on thousands of dollars in revenue .  " We count on the money as part of our revenue stream . But the most disappointing thing is people counting on taking the lessons and the kids who really enjoy these lessons and the programs they offer , " Elgersma said .  Victoria Perron , the head of the breakers swimming club , said she 's " extremely disappointed and upset " at the closure , which will have an impact on young developing swimmers in Iqaluit .  " It 's really important to train on a swim team , you need that regularity , " Perron said , adding many parents are frustrated that the pool is now closed .  But those young swimmers affected by the closure are likely to find other recreational activities .  " I know a lot of the kids on the swim team are just active in general -- they 're not swimming , but they 're doing other things like badminton or hockey , " Perron said .