Where luck, discomfort and vision intersect
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/small-business/sb-growth/success-stories/where-luck-discomfort-and-vision-intersect/article4629290/

reza satchu sold his first startup -- a supply-chain software company -- at the height of the dot-com boom , for just shy of $1-billion .  since then , the harvard business school grad , who spent 12 years at the private equity firm fenway partners in new york , has made a name for himself as one of the crustiest -- and best -- business professors at the university of toronto , a mentor for young entrepreneurs , and a savvy investor through his alignvest capital management fund .  startups  expert advice  and he 's got some tough words for canada when it comes to entrepreneurship .  q : you moved to canada from kenya when you were seven . what was that like ?  a : the decision to move to canada was a remarkable opportunity , and it changed our lives . but at the time , it was difficult . i immediately skipped a grade , so the combination of having a funny accent , being younger , and having parents who did n't have us immersed think that discomfort led to some confidence in overcoming obstacles .  q : what did you learn from your dad ?  a : my dad started off as a real estate agent and built up his own business . so we saw in a tangible way -- moving from a small townhouse to a slightly bigger one -- that progression of hard work and taking some risk . that instilled some level of confidence and a strong set of expectations . and we learned not to be scared of taking risks .  q : how did that pay off ?  a : when i decided i wanted to go to wall street , i probably got rejected 200 times . then , instead of going to an established private equity firm , i went to a startup -- fenway partners . i was the third person there , and it became very successful . i got a taste of being an entrepreneur . my wife and i both had massive loans , but our decision to not play it safe and to get some equity instead of first startup , suppliermarket.com .  a : it was a supply-chain software company focused on procuring direct materials faster for manufacturing firms . things were somewhat crazed on the tech side when my brother and i started in 1998 . i was 29 , my brother was 27 , and we raised money from onex , kkr and sequoia . neither of us knew anything about technology . how did we raise money from all these sophisticated investors ? i like to say they all looked across the table and saw two indian kids , and just assumed we knew something about technology .  q : how did you end up selling it to ariba for $925-million ?  a : we had about 250 people , and we were scheduled to go public . the best decision we made was selling . that was against the wishes of the board . everyone we talked to would say , " do n't sell , go public . " only with us threatening to resign did the board listen . now that looks like a good decision . it was seemed absurd not to take that price . there are many more stories of people who did n't take that kind of price .  q : what are some of the key lessons you taught in your economics for entrepreneurs class at the university of toronto ?  a : one , seek positions of discomfort . work on your weaknesses . put yourself in situations where you are forced to get better at them . only in positions of discomfort do you learn a lot . two , when i went down to wall street , i remember thinking that the kids from harvard , yale and stanford must be much smarter -- they certainly acted it . the truth is , they 're no better educated , but they have two advantages : massive access to leaders and mentors , and , because of that , massively expanded goalposts . i encourage people to find mentors , so you can touch and feel it , and have a set of expectations that get you there . three , for canada to stay relevant , we have to be do n't believe in fate at all . very few entrepreneurs would say that whatever happens was meant to happen . i think that 's bs .  q : why do n't we have more entrepreneurial successes here ?  a : this is true , not a myth : in canada , when people fail , you might as well put an x on your face and never come out again . the consequence is that people do n't try . but trying and failing is so much better than not trying at all , because at least you learn something .  a : if you look at the 10 largest businesses created over the past 15 years , most of them have been created by people in their twenties -- people like michael dell and mark zuckerberg . the world has changed . you do n't need grey hair and 30 years of experience to make something happen . the time to get people on the right track , where we can have the most impact , is early in their careers . we go through a to the next 36 program , because they 're getting more in terms of resources and mentorship . we focus on undergraduates because we want to catch the canadians whom we can have major impact on and who have n't left yet -- because if you 're at rotman or ivey , it means that you did n't get into stanford or harvard . we want people we can truly transform .  q : what do you look for when investing in businesses through your fund , alignvest capital management ?  a : our business is both starting and investing with people who have vision . the most important thing we look for is the actual person who 's leading the investment . i 'm looking for someone i can trust . you 're going to see 100 business plans that are gon na be pointing at the sky from 0 to a billion . but there will always be lots of bumps in the road , so we 're looking for someone who has conviction and a sense of responsibility that , when you take my money , they 're going to work their ass off . why did people invest in suppliermarket.com ? it was n't just because we were indian . it was because every single person who had worked with my brother or i , from analysts at merrill lynch on up , had invested in us . they said , " we 've worked with them , and they 're really good guys . " i 've got multiple screens on how to evaluate people , but that is what 's most important  q : what 's your advice for budding entrepreneurs ?  a : you 've got to put yourself in a situation where luck and proportionality can impact you . if you 're a lawyer and you get lucky , you work 50 hours and make a bit more money . if you 're an entrepreneur and you work harder , it could be a complete sea change .  q : what 's the biggest mistake an entrepreneur can make ?  a : the death of so many entrepreneurs is because they focus on maximizing their valuation when raising price so they can keep the most equity . but you get what you pay for -- you 're raising money from the dumbest people . we went to really sophisticated investors who were going to keep more equity , but who increased our probability of success . do n't think of it as just a cash investment ; think of it as taking on a partner who can be a very important part of the business .  restrictions  all rights reserved . republication or redistribution of thomson reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in thomson reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' thomson reuters ' and the thomson reuters logo are trademarks of thomson reuters and its affiliated companies .