Oil servitude and the new Canadian petrostate: An interview with ...
http://rabble.ca/news/2012/10/oil-servitude-and-new-canadian-petrostate-interview-andrew-nikiforuk

oil servitude and the new canadian petrostate : an interview with andrew nikiforuk  andrew nikiforuk is an albertan journalist and author of several books , including the acclaimed tar sands : dirty oil and the future of a continent . lori theresa waller interviewed him late last month on the eve of a talk he gave in ottawa for the launch of his latest book , the energy of slaves : oil and the new servitude . what follows is an excerpt of their conversation . part ii of this interview will be published later this week .  lori theresa waller : you write , " when it comes to oil , there are only masters , traders and slaves . " which category would you put canada in ?  andrew nikiforuk : we 're all three , right now . canada has almost become a plantation economy where all conversations are about the production and export of oil . if you 're opposed to that agenda , you 're a radical and unpatriotic . that 's the kind of low-level conversation you have oil in the sense that half the country is dependent on foreign oil from the middle east and the north sea . we are not an energy independent country at all .  ltw : this concept of a petrostate is one you discuss at length . what are the defining characteristics of a petrostate ?  an : the person who 's done the most work on this is terry lynn carl , an extraordinary political scientist from stanford university . americans pioneered oil , and now we have an american who 's pioneered the study of how oil impacts states and governments . technically a petrostate is any jurisdiction where approximately 20 per cent of its income is coming from hydrocarbons . alberta was there a long time ago . the first thing that petrostates do is they dismantle the relationship between representation and taxation . they say , " we 're gon na make you all feel warm and fuzzy about oil production by lowering your taxes . " they do n't add the next part , which is " oh , and by the way , if to represent you . "  petrostates first and foremost represent the developers of the oil resources . the next thing that happens is that you have so much easy money flowing into a petrostate that all statecraft disappears . whether you 're looking at russia or saudi arabia or iran or nigeria , or alberta , or louisiana , alaska , and texas , you 're struck by the lack of innovation , the lack of smart public policy . any and every problem is resolved by pouring petro-dollars on it .  then the third thing is secrecy . petrostates are not very transparent because there are so many issues about the money -- who 's getting the money , who 's watching the money , and is any of the money being saved ? that information is very hard to come by . in alberta , there is a whole fog that surrounds any royalty issues . in fact the government actively discourages any discussion of royalties or corporate taxes .  the fourth characteristic would simply be hubris . when they 're sitting on top of all become wiser and nobler than the rest of mankind . venezuela was going to have a grand experiment , mexico was going to have its miracle , and iran was going to create a new civilization . alberta had the " new advantage , " and canada is now going to be the " new energy superpower . " oil and bullshit go together .  ltw : do you see a danger of canada overall becoming a petrostate ?  an : absolutely . the governing party , its base largely comes from alberta , and its financial backers are largely coming from the oil industry . canada seems today to be only about one thing , and that is the production and export of oil -- at any cost .  ltw : what are the essential changes that you 'd like to see in the way alberta and the federal government are managing the tar sands boom ?  an : since 2008 when i wrote tar sands , i 've advocated a set of principles that former alberta premier peter lougheed outlined in 2006 , when he we need to behave like owners " -- we 're not . the second was " we need to collect our fair share . " in other words , control the pace and scale of development by imposing fair royalties and corporate taxes . right now we 're giving away the resource ; we have among the lowest royalties and taxes in the world .  his next principle was " we should be saving for a rainy day . " he was actually dealing with this whole issue of representation and taxation . he was saying the majority of this money should be saved for future generations ; our government should be running on taxes , and not on these artificial oil revenue streams . then the next one was " one project at a time , or go slow . "  his other principle was " add value . " we should n't be exporting raw bitumen , any more than we should have been exporting raw logs and raw furs . we should add some value to this resource , because that 's where the real economic and upgrading of bitumen . instead of peddling bitumen , we should be selling diesel , gasoline and petrochemicals .  his last point was that we should clean up the mess . you ca n't develop a resource like this without adequate scientific monitoring , environmental regulation and enforcement . this is a program that has been entirely ignored in this country . it 's what we need to do .  ltw : at the federal level , a lot of the current policy approach was already in place when chr ? tien and martin were in power . do you think a liberal government in ottawa would make much of a difference in terms of tar sands policy ?  an : no . the danger is that here 's this great pile of cash . every political party 's going to look at this pile of cash and say , " here 's an opportunity for us to push our political agenda . " stephen harper is using bitumen revenue the same way margaret thatcher used north sea oil revenue to push her political revolution .  : the green party and the new democrats . it would take a courageous political party to say , " we 're not going to run on this revenue , we 're saving it for future generations . "  lori theresa waller is a freelance writer and editor based in ottawa . she has written for briarpatch magazine , the dominion and the ottawa citizen .