Next year's Superhospital detour: St. Jacques bridge demolition
http://montreal.ctvnews.ca/next-year-s-superhospital-detour-st-jacques-bridge-demolition-1.1037739

next year 's superhospital detour : st. jacques bridge demolition  montreal--ndg residents have been complaining for years about the traffic detours and closed streets forced upon the area by the construction of the muhc superhospital .  the st. jacques st. exit on the 720 westbound has frequently been closed for months , while girouard ave . below sherbrooke st. was reversed , an on-ramp to the decarie expressway was closed , as have several streets .  now it 's about to get worse as transport quebec plans to demolish and reconstruct the st. jacques bridge over the decarie expressway .  " there is going to be some deviation around the streets in the area . we try to make it as low impact as possible , " said ministry spokesperson alain-marc dube at tuesday evening 's " good neighbours " meeting hosted by the muhc superhospital .  the reconstruction of the overpass is slated to begin in the summer of 2013 . it will mean that once again the st. jacques exit will be closed , as will the st. jacques entrance came to the meeting to hear about traffic plans , and she was not impressed .  " the amount of traffic from two years ago is tenfold , " said sweeney .  she said driving anywhere near the glen yards , even on the west side of decarie , is already very difficult , and worries that closing the st. jacques st. bridge will create even more gridlock .  fernando lepore lives in st. raymond , the neighbourhood sandwiched between the escarpment which parallels highway 20 and the train tracks south of de maisonneuve blvd .  he said many residents depend on upper lachine rd. and feels the city 's decision to close the eastern-most part of the road , which connects girouard ave . to decarie blvd. near vendome metro , is a bad one .  " it 's going to take more time to go to work and to come back , that 's my concern , " said lepore .  he said it could even force some of his tenants to move .  alain trudeau from the city of montreal said " if the pedestrian and cyclists are at risk , we have to come to conclusion that upper lachine has to close , " said trudeau .  many people also asked about making sure there was access from the vendome metro and train station to the superhospital .  the muhc said that a second access point is necessary , but details are still being worked out .