Where are they now: Mike Holmes, from the gridiorn to the diamond
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/sports/football/where-are-they-now-mike-holmes-from-the-gridiorn-to-the-diamond/article5316689/

reviving baseball in inner cities president michael holmes , left , talks with casey moore , 17 , about her plans for college at settegast park , november 10 , 2012 , in houston , texas . houston rbi has been serving houston area youth since 1997 with a variety of summer and fall baseball and softball programs , assistance with sat preparation and mentoring of high school and college bound students . ( dave einsel for the globe and mail )  reviving baseball in inner cities president michael holmes , left , talks with casey moore , 17 , about her plans for college at settegast park , november 10 , 2012 , in houston , texas . houston rbi has been serving houston area youth since 1997 with a variety of summer and fall baseball and softball programs , assistance with sat preparation and mentoring of high school and college bound students . ( dave einsel for the globe and mail )  100th grey cup  where are they now : mike holmes , from the gridiorn to the diamond add to ... to go . they come because mike holmes takes them in and makes them better , makes them whole . it 's a gift , he says in a soothing voice . only he is n't talking about himself .  the gift is the program he runs , one that would have slipped away due to bureaucracy and budget cuts if it had n't been for the former winnipeg blue bombers receiver .  interactive timeline  on tour in t.o .  officially , holmes is the president of houston rbi . rbi stands for reviving baseball in inner cities , a community endeavour sponsored in part by major league baseball .  to make it work , to give young teenagers a positive outlet so they can pursue their baseball dreams , holmes does more than oversee a 20-member board . he helps manage the teens on-field . he organizes schedules and trips . he raises money to make sure there are enough uniforms and equipment for everyone to play .  " the city of houston used to run the program , " holmes said , while the city decided to do away with it . i took it over and i 've been running it ever since . we 've put 160 kids through to college . we have nine players in the majors . it 's a lot of fun . "  three of holmes 's prot ? g ? s have played in the all-star game : carl crawford of the los angeles dodgers , the mvp of the 2009 game ; chris young of the oakland athletics in 2010 ; michael bourn of the atlanta braves in 2012 .  bourn was baseball 's top base-stealer in 2011 , and is a two-time gold glove winner . all three players are outfielders .  " from a baseball perspective , those are the guys i really feel good about , " holmes said .  so how does a former football player , one who played in three different professional leagues , end up offering baseball-loving teens a safe haven from gangs and drugs ?  a native texan , holmes loved baseball , played basketball and was offered a football scholarship at education and wound up a first-round pick in the 1973 nfl draft ( 18th overall by the san francisco 49ers ) as a defensive back . after two seasons with the 49ers , he was released and he closed out 1976 with the miami dolphins . he given a choice : either hang around and wait for a shot in miami or play in winnipeg as a receiver .  he went north and never regretted it .  with the blue bombers , holmes played in an offence that featured fellow receivers eugene goodlow , joe poplawski and rick house and quarterback dieter brock . in six seasons , holmes caught 244 passes for 3,752 yards and 33 touchdowns . in 1980 , he was a cfl all-star .  " in winnipeg , the red river exhibition would always roll into town during the season , and mike was intrigued by one of the rides , " former blue bombers linebacker leo ezerins said .  " in practice , he would yell out during pass patterns : ' do you want to go faster ? ' it was try to catch me . ' very few did . "  holmes left winnipeg for two seasons in the u.s. football league before working for the city of houston 's parks and recreation department . he helped administrate houston rbi , which had been patterned after the original program funded by former major-league player and scout john young in the south central region of los angeles in the late 1980s .  when houston city officials said they could no longer operate it . holmes jumped in for the simplest of reasons : " if you see something good , you want to be a part of it . growing up , my middle-school and high-school coach said a lot of positive things that kept me on the right path . it 's my turn to assist someone . "  holmes says 75 per cent of the teens he gets come from broken homes . many seek a refuge from the violence in their neighbourhood . the boys are divided into two age groups ( 13 to 15 , 16 to 18 ) while girls 18 and older play and the city funded the houston astros urban youth academy ( uya ) , a facility where hundreds of kids have learned about attending university on a baseball scholarship .  when the houston uya opened , its manager , daryl wade , said being able to work with the young players over time would greatly benefit chances of playing elsewhere .  for holmes , it was a glorious day , almost as good as the august afternoon he celebrated in 2010 , when his senior boys ' team travelled to jupiter , fla. , and won the rbi world series . it was the first time in 14 trips that houston won it all .  " james loney boston red sox came from our program . jason bourgeois kansas city royals . quinten davis drafted by the los angeles angels of anaheim in 2012 , " holmes says . " it 's like i tell all the kids : ' set yourself a goal and do n't stop until you reach that goal . '  " i enjoyed football , but this is what i do . . "