Christie refereeing the referees
http://www.stcatharinesstandard.ca/2012/11/14/christie-refereeing-the-referees

sports basketball  christie refereeing the referees  tom christie is used to putting up with verbal abuse from fans -- and sometimes players -- during a 27-year career as a basketball referee .  as supervisor for the ontario university athletics west panel , he may be getting some verbal abuse from fellow officials , too .  the 53-year-old pelham resident will also have some heavy input as the men 's and women 's sides merge into one panel , along with other changes the oua hopes to institute over the next few years .  " the response from the coaches and officials has been overwhelming , " he said . " i 'm not surprised , but everybody 's on board and everybody 's looking forward to the new direction . "  as the first referee from the niagara district basketball referees association to hold such a prestigious title , " i 'm really excited to be part of the direction we 're going in and there are some mandates that are pretty exciting , " he said .  among his to games and evaluation of officials . he will also make selections as to which officials from his panel could referee at the men 's and women 's canadian interuniversity sports championships .  needless to say , he was slightly more than excited when he received the news .  " i was thrilled when got the call , " said christie , a familiar face around high school and university gyms in niagara .  " this oua west panel started ... over 40 years ago . i know the type of reputation that 's there and what to do to keep it at the forefront . the west panel is regarded as the best basketball officials anywhere in canada , so i have a tough reputation to uphold . "  after playing basketball at the high school level , christie got into refereeing intramural games at mcmaster . it was then he asked about signing up and was soon doing house league games before graduating to high school games .  he remembers his first high school experience very well .  " my first high school in burlington with ron foxcroft . was i ever nervous -- here 's a guy who 's done the olympics and was an ncaa referee and also a site evaluator for nba . "  his first bit of advice. ?  " ' we have a tripleheader and if you want to be out of here by 11 o'clock , you 'll learn how to blow your whistle . ' i learned about advantage-disadvantage in a hurry . ' "  he became involved in the administrative end while working in sales in radio in saint john , n.b. , serving as president and vice-president of the officials association there before returning to st. catharines in 1998 as general sales manger of htz-fm in st. catharines .  now retired from sales , he 's also stepped away from officiating at the university level . he estimated he officiated 35 university games and more than 100 high school and college games a season . he was surprised at the response when word got out he was leaving university officiating .  " i sent an e-mail to all the coaches very heartwarming . it was one of few times coaches and referees actually agreed , " he said with a laugh .  when he needs advice , he wo n't hesitate to contact twin brother larry , who lives in moncton and is the maritime supervisor for the qmjhl .  " you can say leadership runs in the family . we talk a lot about officials and philosophies on how to make the game better as an official . "  as for missing the abuse , he 's certain some will still come his way .  as an evaluator , there will probably " be more from the coaches and not the players and the fans , " he said with a laugh .  jim.wallace@sumedia.ca  vital signs  age : 55 .  personal background : born in toronto and attended sir sanford fleming secondary school ; attended mcmaster university where he started officiating before moving to saint john , n.b .. he moved to st. catharines in 1998 , officiating at the university , college and high school levels .  at present : officials , but will still referee at the high school and college level .