Stanley Cup winner Mike Richards joins road hockey game at The ...
http://www.kenoradailyminerandnews.com/2012/11/14/stanley-cup-winner-mike-richards-joins-road-hockey-game-at-the-forks

sports hockey  stanley cup winner mike richards joins road hockey game at the forks  ken wiebe , winnipeg sun  wednesday , november 14 , 2012 8:55:14 est am  l.a. kings forward mike richards gestures to a teammate during a street hockey game on the roof of the parkade at the forks in winnipeg , man. , on tues. , nov. 13 , 2012 . winnipeg jets players andrew ladd , jim slater and mark stuart also took part . jason halstead/winnipeg sun/qmi agency  a quartet of locked-out nhlers turned back the clock on tuesday afternoon , participating in a road hockey game at the forks .  the idea was the brainchild of tsn personality cabbie and winnipeggers got on board immediately , as roughly 200 people of all ages answered a call on twitter to take part in a game that featured winnipeg jets captain andrew ladd and los angeles kings centre mike richards , a kenora product who captured the stanley cup last spring .  " we knew that winnipeg is a die-hard hockey market , so it was said cabbie , who served as the referee . " my favourite moment was maybe when the police played . and all of the little guys . that was fun . "  richards and ladd engaged in a little bit of friendly trash talking on twitter , but ended up getting the desired result by connecting with fans who are becoming increasingly frustrated as the nhl lockout drags on .  ladd 's squad ended up earning a 5-3 victory , but this was more about channelling the love of the game .  " this is our way of staying in the community and being involved , " said ladd . " with the situation , it makes it a lot tougher for fans to see us . this was a great idea by cabbie to set this up . "  " the fans are missing hockey just as much as we are , " said richards . " we 're not only players in the game , but fans of the game . we miss being around the guys and around competitive hockey . not being around missing it . "  playing in the great outdoors makes jets defenceman mark stuart think of growing up in minnesota and engaging in some memorable battles with his brothers and sisters in the backyard .  " there were some pretty good ones . not too much fighting , it was pretty friendly , " said stuart . " my dad built a rink in the yard when we were growing up and we would get out there .  " as far as ball hockey ( goes ) , i have n't played in a while . this brings me back . we 'd like to be at the mts ( centre ) playing games . but this is a unique experience for everybody . "  stuart was among the nhl leaders in blocked shots last season , but made a minor adjustment to his game on this chilly afternoon .  " the ( ball ) was frozen already , i did n't really come prepared , " said stuart . " i should have taped my shin pads on or something . "  jets centre street hockey games as a youngster , imagining he was bill ranford making big glove saves .  " this is awesome , " said slater . " i used to love playing goalie . it 's always awesome to get back and play some hockey like how you grew up .  " i did n't know what to expect , but when you say hockey in winnipeg , you expect big things and obviously this turned out really good . "