City pulls plug on mysudbury.ca website
http://www.northernlife.ca/news/localNews/2012/11/14-city-website-sudbury.aspx

As part of efforts to cut costs and streamline Internet services , mysudbury.ca is logging off .  Since Oct. 1 , web surfers trying to access the site have been automatically redirected to the city 's main site , greatersudbury.ca .  When it began in 2005 , mysudbury.ca was intended to be more than just a website . A staff report going before city councillors Nov. 13 said the goal was to build web applications such as emails , online collaborative web spaces , an online community directory and an online volunteer registry .  " The program was designed to realize municipal efficiencies by leveraging the technology infrastructure to quickly deploy web applications such as airport flight information displays , Healthy Community web presence , and the creation of www.sudburytourism.ca with the selling of vacation packages online , " the report reads .  The report says for every dollar invested in the program in 2008 , it generated $3.50 ; the amount increased to $4.30 in 2009 , $5.30 in 2010 , and $5.30 in 2011 . Since its launch in 2005 , looking at about 18 million pages .  However , as other web infrastructure developed in Greater Sudbury , the usefulness of mysudbury.ca began to wane .  " Many of the tools and much of the information that the community portal was designed to provide can now be accessed through other sites free of charge , " the report says . " At the same time , members of council questioned the need for the portal and expressed concerns regarding value for money . "  The review also found mysudbury.ca to be too old and costly to bring up to date . By shutting down the site now , the city will save about $126,000 in 2013 .  Darren MacDonald  Reader 's Feedback  NorthernLife.ca may contain content submitted by readers , usually in the form of article comments . All reader comments and any opinions , advice , statements or other information contained in any messages posted or transmitted by any third party are the responsibility of the author of that message and not of NorthernLife.ca . The fact that a particular message is posted on NorthernLife.ca has endorsed that message in any way or verified the accuracy , completeness or usefulness of any message . We encourage visitors to NorthernLife.ca to report any objectionable content by clicking the " X " on the top right of the comment in question . Comment Guidelines