Let's talk about sex (and people with disabilities), say advocates
http://o.canada.com/life/lets-talk-about-sex-and-people-with-disabilities-say-advocates

sections  let 's talk about sex ( and people with disabilities ) , say advocates  lynda roy , health promoter , therapist and co-ordinator of the sexability program at the anne johnston health station , poses for a photo in toronto on tuesday , november 20 , 2012 . photo : the canadian press/michelle siu  toronto -- people with disabilities face any number of challenges , but perhaps the most insidious is society 's unspoken belief that they are somehow asexual beings -- neither wanting nor able to express that most universal of human needs .  it is a notion decidedly debunked by the film " the sessions , " based on the true story of a man paralyzed by childhood polio and mostly confined to an iron lung , who at age 38 longs to experience sexual intimacy for the first time in his life .  the poignant story of writer-poet mark o'brien , played by john hawkes , and his carnal awakening under the tutelage of a sex surrogate portrayed by helen hunt , should go a long way to , advocates say .  " the big one is this idea that people with disabilities are not sexual -- not only that they literally can not have sex , but also that they 're not sexually desirable and that they do n't desire sex , " says cory silverberg , a canadian sexuality educator working in new york city .  silverberg says the tendency is to view sex as two people sweeping each other off their feet , " and certainly not between two people where one person might actually have to lift somebody onto the bed , because that 's not seen as sexy . "  unfortunately , he says , such stereotypical thinking gets absorbed by those whose physical abilities may be limited , sometimes severely , by any of a range of conditions , among them spinal cord injury , cerebral palsy , muscular dystrophy and multiple sclerosis .  " often people with disabilities will say ' i 'm not going to come to your workshop because i 've never had sex , i 'm not sexual . ' and of course , that a lifetime of being told , but not explicitly .  " the trap is you begin to think that it 's just you . "  surrounded by images of leggy models and a-list celebrities that shape society 's definition of sexual attractiveness , it 's no wonder people with disabilities struggle with body image and are sometimes reticent about physical intimacy , says sandra mills , a patient and family educator at toronto rehab 's lyndhurst centre for spinal cord injury .  " when stereotypes and prejudices exist already and then you try to connect that with a disability , it makes it challenging for a person who acquires a disability to re-engage in a physical world , in a world of dating and socializing , " she says .  rich vanderwal , 41 , says his self-image took a severe blow after a motorcycle crash 20 years ago left him paralyzed below his armpits . he has mobility in his arms and hands but is reliant on a wheelchair to get around .  a ski and snowboard instructor during winter and a lifeguard in summer had been built around his athletic ability and once-buff physique .  " i was known as the guy who took my shirt off and i had abs . i was proud of them because to me that was a sign of fitness and , of course , sexuality and all those things . "  despite his life-changing injury , vanderwal has continued to embrace sports , playing high-level wheelchair tennis , downhill ski racing and rowing . last year , he competed in an ironman half-triathlon using special equipment .  he also put himself out there in the dating world .  vanderwal says he always had a lot of female friends " and as luck and circumstance would have it , i started to become more intimate with these people who were already close in my social circle . "  " that gave me a chance to kind of investigate what might be possible and my new comfort levels and how my new body was going to handle different situations . "  then he met carole chebaro , at the time a volunteer at lyndhurst friends , then began dating . six years ago , vanderwal and chebaro married .  early on in their relationship , vanderwal says he worried about whether he was meeting all of chebaro 's needs . " but it 's very clear that i could meet some of the important ones . "  the couple hopes to soon start a family .  vanderwal says he has tried medications like viagra and can have intercourse " to a certain quality , " but for the most part orgasm is not through intercourse and is " modified and different now . "  " there 's no actual physical sensation , but all the chemical changes within the body still go on . i still get the flushing of the face , there 's that euphoric feeling and certain relaxations . "  one welcome reaction is a quieting down of persistent muscle spasms , a common repercussion of spinal cord damage . " a lot of my spasticity , which is there 24-7 -- literally my spasticity is firing off every 15 seconds all day and all night -- i 'm completely relaxed , " he says .  the ability to move or feel sensations below the site of a spinal cord injury may be lost or disrupted , depending on the extent of damage , explains mills .  even so , people with such injuries can " absolutely " experience sexual intimacy , she says .  " a lot of times , the person will develop new erogenous zones above the level of injury . so people will report that their ears and the back of their necks or their nipples are so sensitive , like crazy off-the-scale sensitive , that it sends them into an erotic tailspin .  " it actually can trigger an orgasm in a different sense . orgasms are half mental . so the orgasm comes from these erogenous zones , but happens in the brain . "  gratification also often comes from satisfying the partner without a disability , adds mills . " it 's in seeing the joy and the relief and the orgasm in their partner that really brings out a whole new sense of meaning to her husband bobby , sexuality is all about intimacy , not intercourse .  in 1996 at age 24 , kaiser suffered a spinal cord injury in a car crash that left her a quadriplegic with some arm movement . the richmond hill , ont. , couple had been dating for about six years and married three years after her accident .  sex raised a number of difficulties : kaiser has what 's called autonomic dysreflexia , a response by the body to stimulus below the injury site that can cause dangerously high blood pressure , a slowed heart rate , even seizures .  as well , her husband was hesitant about sexual intimacy because of her loss of sensation and movement . " it felt weird to him . he felt almost in a sense that he was taking advantage of me . it 's like , ' i feel it and therefore i 'm getting pleasure , but if you do n't feel it , you 're not . '  " we just chose not to be sexually active in that sense and our activity was the cuddling and affection and that sort of thing . "  many people , kaiser suggests , are surprised that an able-bodied person would even consider being in a relationship and physically intimate with a partner who has a disability . " in some cases , they think people with disabilities would only be with other people with disabilities .  " and that 's another big misconception : people do n't realize that people with disabilities can actually get pregnant and have kids and be parents , and be very successful and capable parents , " says kaiser , whose four-year-old daughter olivia was conceived through insemination with her husband 's sperm .  vanderwal says while the body may change with a spinal injury or as the result of a disabling disease , one 's likes , dislikes , interests and desires remain intact .  " it does n't matter what body you 're in . your mind and your thoughts , it 's a natural process to have attraction and want to share that sexual energy with somebody else .  " so it 's perfectly just the healthy , good-looking hollywood-type people that are in our society . "  people with disabilities face any number of challenges , but perhaps the most insidious is society 's unspoken belief that they are somehow asexual beings -- neither wanting nor able to express that most universal of human needs .