Travel Gear Review: RHA SA950i headphones and MA450i ...
http://o.canada.com/news/travel-gear-review-rha-sa950i-headphones-and-ma450i-earphones

These headphones are feather light ( 105 grams ) . As a result , you can throw them into a bag and they 're not going going to weigh you down . More importantly , the light weight means they can sit on your head for extended periods and you wo n't feel like you 're wearing a weighted clamp on your skull .  Part of the wearing comfort comes from the way the earcups are designed . You can slide them up and down or rotate them in a variety of ways which makes them infinitely adjustable for all shapes and sizes of heads .  While comfort is important , the most vital consideration for any headphones is the quality of the sound they deliver . That can be summed up with one adjective -- excellent .  While these are in no way noise-cancelling headphones , the small padded cups that fit over your ears are sufficient to keep out a lot of background noise so you do n't have to crank up the volume to dangerous levels to hear what you are metal design of the phones is understated . The only bling to be found on them is little more than a subtle RHA logo on the side . They are almost retro in their styling , looking like something you 'd find in an audio engineer 's studio circa 1964 .  The audio cable features gold-plated connections and is detachable from the headphones which helps eliminate breakage and it is covered with a braided fabric to reduce tangling .  There 's also a remote control to manage volume on Apple iPhones , iPads and iPods as well as a microphone so you can converse with people while plugged into your mobile device .  There are headphones that you tolerate -- like the ear buds they give you on airplanes or the ones that come with your cellphone . They work okay but they do n't fit inside your ear particularly well , bouncing out when you go for a jog . And the sound , well , the sound is nothing great .  Then there are RHA 's MA450i aluminum , noise-isolating headphones . Every irritation that been lovingly addressed by RHA .  Apparently all ears are not created equal . It 's with that thought in mind that RHA provides seven interchangeable tips for a comfortable fit and enhanced noise isolation . The tips come in a handy carrying case which helps ensure you do n't misplace them .  Another bugaboo that RHA seems to have reduced is the tangled cord . Replacing the usual wire that tends to get hopelessly tangled when bouncing around your bag or pockets is a fabric-braided , reinforced 1.5-metre cable .  The headphones also come with a remote and microphone which allow them to be use with most iPod/iPhone models . The attention to quality continues with gold-plated connections .  But it 's the sound that really hits it out of the ballpark for RHA . The earbuds , which are based on the design of a trumpet , produce a mellow and richly-balanced sound . There 's not a hint of tinniness . The sound quality is made even better as a result of the effective noise-isolating nature of these ear buds . There 's nothing line is that RHA 's earphone and headphones would make a great gift for everyone from the the frequent traveller to the iPod-addicted teen on your holiday gift list .