The Hobbit: At least 27 animal stars die on unsafe farm
http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/337296

the hobbit : at least 27 animal stars die on unsafe farm  wellington - " the hobbit : an unexpected journey " is due to premiere in wellington , new zealand on november 28 . however , in the meantime a scandal has arisen over the treatment of animals used in the film .  while according to the american humane association , the animals were not harmed during the actual filming of the movie , wranglers involved in the film say that poor accommodation and treatment away from the set has resulted in the deaths of at least 27 animals .  the wranglers complained that the conditions at the farm , which housed 150 animals for the film , were unsuitable . they named " bluffs , sinkholes and broken-down fencing " as among the most troubling " death traps " for the animals , many of which died of severe injuries .  according to one wrangler , over time he buried three horses , as well as about six goats , six sheep and a dozen chickens . apparently two more horses an unexpected journey  youtube  a miniature horse called rainbow , slated to appear as a hobbit horse , was apparently the first to go and was euthanized after breaking his back when he crash-landed on the uneven terrain .  another wrangler said that a horse named claire was discovered dead , her head underwater in a stream , after falling over a bluff . two other horses were injured after their legs were ripped open on some fencing .  and yet , despite their complaints , the farm continued to be used by the producers of the film .  spokesperson for director peter jackson has officially confirmed that several horses , goats , chickens and one sheep died at the farm near wellington .  according to the spokesman , matt dravitski , some deaths had natural causes , while others could have been avoided if necessary precautions had been taken timeously . dravitzki claims that the production company did react immediately after two horses , who could have been saved , died .  " we do know those deaths were avoidable and we took " he said .  " the producers completely reject the accusations that 27 animals died due to mistreatment during the making of the films . extraordinary measures were taken to make sure that animals were not used during action sequences or any other sequence that might create undue stress for the animals involved . over 55 percent of all shots using animals in the hobbit are in fact computer generated ; this includes horses , ponies , rabbits , hedgehogs , birds , deer , elk , mice , wild boars and wolves .  the american humane association ( aha ) was on hand to monitor all use of animals by the production . no animals died or were harmed on set during filming .  we regret that some of these accusations by wranglers who were dismissed from the film over a year ago are only now being brought to our attention . we are currently investigating these new allegations and are attempting to speak with all parties involved to establish the truth . "  kathy guillermo , a senior vice president for animal rights defenders , the hobbit had contacted the organization and that peta sent a letter to jackson last week outlining the group 's concerns .  " we want to send a clear message to hollywood that they need to be very careful when using animals and take all the precautions that need to be taken , " guillermo said .  peta are planning to rally against the film in new zealand , the us and the uk , as the first in a $500 million hobbit trilogy premieres in wellington on november 28.