Great Britain - Debate rages over relationships between press ...
http://www.netnewsledger.com/2012/11/30/great-britain-debate-rages-over-relationships-between-press-police-and-politicians/

THUNDER BAY -- There is a debate raging in Great Britain over the relationship between the press and the police and politicians . Speaking in the British House of Commons , Prime Minister Cameron stated , " Lord Justice Leveson makes clear that he does n't find a basis for challenging the integrity of the police . But he does raise a number of areas which he felt were a cause for public concern such as tip-offs , off-the-record briefings and more broadly , " excessive proximity " between the press and the police " .  The scandal that led to the inquiry was allegations that members of the British press , specifically ' News of the World ' had ' hacked ' into the wireless phones of celebrities and reported on what they had found . The newspaper has since been shut down by the owners of the company . News International announced the shuttering of the newspaper on 7 July 2011 .  The ongoing scandal has yet to fully play out , and there are potential legal implications still to come forward . Cameron said , " As Lord Justice Leveson has found ' over the last 30-35 years and probably much longer , the political parties of UK national Government and UK official Opposition , have had or developed too close a relationship with the press in a way that has not been in the public interest ' " .  " I made this point last summer when I set up this Inquiry -- and at the same time I set in train reforms to improve transparency , " Cameron continued . " This is the first government ever to publish details of meetings between senior politicians and proprietors , editors or senior executives , as Lord Justice Leveson recommends in his report . He also recommends disclosing further information on the overall level of interaction between politicians and the press " .  " This would apply to all parties -- and on the Government 's behalf I can say that we accept that recommendation , " added Cameron .  Cameron adds , " He makes a number of recommendations including national guidance on appropriate gifts and hospitality ; record-keeping a 12-month ' cooling-off ' period for senior police officers being employed by the press . These are designed to break the perception of an excessively cosy relationship between the press and the police and we support these recommendations " .