Robert Bell Lecture and Debate series engage students
http://www.brantfordexpositor.ca/2012/11/30/robert-bell-lecture-and-debate-series-engage-students

news brantford-brant  robert bell lecture and debate series engage students  should the federal government privatize health care or work toward reform in the spirit of tommy douglas 's vision of medicare ?  about 120 students from brantford collegiate , assumption college , st. john 's college and pauline johnson collegiate researched and debated that cumbersome topic in moot court and model parliament on thursday and friday .  the exercises were part of the second annual robert bell lecture and debate series .  at the centre of the arguments was fictitious bill 777 , ontario 's health care reform act , which would privatize the services of health care in ontario . under the proposed new law , the government would broker contracts but , ultimately , the choice of health-care provisions " would be in the hands of the people of ontario who would have their services provided by crown corporations . "  the bill would also put a per-pound tax on people who are overweight and provide a tax break for those with a gym membership .  " we we have to or we will go over the fiscal cliff , " grade 12 north park student braedon mcdonald , who was acting as ontario premier , said in explaining his government 's position .  nick stefanelli , who is in grade 12 at assumption college , took on the role of leader of the official opposition .  the essence of their argument was that health care is failing because there are " too many people clogging up the system , " said stefanelli . the opposition proposed an investment in preventative health care , a la douglas , the so-called father of canadian medicare .  " i was in the emergency room on wednesday , " said stefanelli , on a break friday from the model parliament session at city hall . " i hurt my hip in a hockey game . most of the people there really did n't need to be . if we could get canadians to focus on their own health , we would n't have 20 people in the er waiting room at midnight . "  students worked for weeks their regular classroom hours .  students were presented with a framework for the exercises but chose the topic of debate , conducted their own research , and wrote the bill and amendments on their own .  for the first time this year , organizers added a new layer of interest by getting laurier brantford involved by pairing faculty and criminology students from the law and society program with the high school students to help mentor and aid in research .  the lecture and debate series is named in honour of the late robert bell , a beloved teacher who inspired students for 25 years at pauline johnson as head of history . bell died in 2011 at the age of 71 .  " these kids are articulate and bright and bring the promise we as adults look for in our young people , " said justice gethin edward , who organizes the lecture and debate series and presided over the moot court on thursday .  alexander hare , a grade 12 student at pj was in the role of third party leader . he said the and spent free time since then conducting research into different models of health care in place around the world .  " it 's a lot of fun , " said hare . " it 's something i enjoy doing . i am always having small debates with my friends . "  the robert bell lecture series was spearheaded in 2011 by edward and brant mpp dave levac , both former students of bell . the series aims to challenge academic students with new ideas , encourage debate and improve communication skills .  gerry fuss , a close friend and colleague of bell and another organizer of the series , said bell would have loved the student-driven events .  " bob always wanted to take the teacher away from centre stage . he believed that if students are given a opportunity to shine , they will shine . "