More review needed on massage parlours: committee
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/local/more-review-needed-on-massage-parlours-committee-181497191.html

more review needed on massage parlours : committee  winnipeg plans to do a more in-depth review of massage parlours amid concerns they should be labelled as body-rub or sex-trade establishments .  council 's downtown development committee asked the city administration thursday to conduct further consultations in light of concerns of the massage therapy association of manitoba that massage parlours sell sex , not massage .  last week , the city released an administrative report that recommended " holistic medical establishments " would not have to obtain a city licence as a massage parlour as long as owners can demonstrate their membership with a professional body that provides appropriate oversight . the term " holistic medical establishment " was a new way to approve businesses who do n't want to be tagged with the sex-trade connotations of the " massage parlour . "  winnipeg decided to review its regulation process last year after the owner of bliss body works , a downtown wellness centre , said he had no other choice but to label his business a massage parlour under the current licensing system told members of the downtown development committee he finds the term " holistic medical establishment " problematic , and that the winnipeg police service should be involved in discussions surrounding massage parlours . he said the provincial association receives several complaints regarding massage parlours every year , including a recent complaint from a woman who was propositioned for sex when she visited a downtown parlour in september .  " while the city licenses massage parlours , it has a great deal of difficulty in policing them , " fraser said . " we would call them sex-trade parlours . "  massage parlours are only permitted inside winnipeg 's downtown and employ massagists , who are different than registered massage therapists , as they have not graduated from a recognized school of massage therapy or equivalent educational program .  the city of winnipeg regulates massage parlours by requiring them to get a licence that stipulates no one under 18 is allowed on the premises , and the parlour may not state , imply or suggest the service provided includes any form of sexual or nude entertainment .  in suspended winnipeg doctor randy raymond for trading oxycontin for sex with two women who worked at a massage parlour .  **28;226;toolong  other downtown developments :  illegal parking lot : the owners of the boyd building have agreed to get rid of a parking lot on a vacant plot of land on portage avenue . in september , city of winnipeg officials ordered the building owners , boyd building inc. , to remove all vehicles from the vacant property between 398 and 402 portage ave . city officials said failure to remove the vehicles would result in legal action . the building 's owners appealed the order initially . on thursday , city officials said the owners have withdrawn their appeal and agreed to get rid of the parking lot .  st. charles hotel : council 's downtown development committee laid over an appeal on the st. charles hotel until january . ken zaifman , an immigration lawyer , has been working on a plan to redevelop the property on notre dame avenue as a boutique hotel since 2008 . officials have ordered him to comply with winnipeg appealed the order .  you can comment on most stories on winnipegfreepress.com . you can also agree or disagree with other comments . all you need to do is be a winnipeg free press print or e-edition subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback .