Housing costs in the top 3
http://www.burnabynow.com/news/housing-costs-in-the-top-3-1.412914

housing costs in the top 3  company says city homes of a certain size rank just behind vancouver , richmond  in terms of single-family homes of a certain size , burnaby is the third most expensive place to buy real estate in canada , according to coldwell banker real estate .  coldwell banker released a listing report on thursday that examined its average active listing prices for four-bedroom , two-bathroom single-family homes in 75 markets across the country between january and june of this year .  the real estate board of greater vancouver 's most recent statistics for the month of october differ slightly , though the board bases its findings on a typical property within each market - not a specific size or type of single-family home .  coldwell banker found that vancouver 's average list price for that specific type of property was nearly $1.88 million , richmond 's was $1.18 million , and burnaby 's was $917,968 .  arthur ng , co-owner of coldwell banker westburn realty in burnaby , said the city has been in the top richmond has been second .  " i would say it 's fairly new in that richmond was always less expensive than burnaby , " he said in a phone interview thursday . " i guess it 's all relative . it depends on what you 're looking at . "  ng believes the demand in richmond pushed the city into the top three , he said .  " so now with the asian market , richmond has actually been bumped up because of the demand from asian buyers , " ng explained .  as places in vancouver 's westside and richmond are bought up and prices increase , buyers will look to burnaby , ng predicted .  " i think that burnaby , their prices are going to be creeping up as well , because it is a desirable area , and it is close to town and close to the airport , " he said .  but while single-family homes of that particular size may be expensive , there are still affordable options , he pointed out .  " if you ca n't condos , they 're not bad places to live in , " he said . " it 's just a matter of , people 's expectations have to change . "  the north shore , which ng said had previously been one of the most expensive markets , was not included in this report , nor did it appear in the 2011 or 2010 reports .  richmond was not listed in those two previous reports , either .  coldwell banker examined the average listing prices for four-bedroom , two-bathroom homes on its website between january and june for the report , excluding markets that had fewer than five such listings .  the real estate board releases its findings for the region on a monthly basis , and in burnaby and vancouver divides the cities into multiple markets .  according to the board 's october report , the average price for a benchmark - typical - single-family home in burnaby was $882,166 . the highest market was south burnaby , at $988,600 , while the lowest market was east burnaby , at $742,400 .  the benchmark came in at $1.45 million , while west vancouver , north vancouver and richmond all had higher benchmark prices than burnaby .  in 2011 , coldwell banker found that vancouver 's average price for a four-bedroom , two-bathroom home was $1.54 million , with kelowna coming in second at $1.09 million , and burnaby coming in third at $797,455 . in 2010 , vancouver was again highest at $1.32 million , kelowna was second at $916,697 , and oakville , ont. came in third at $741,638.