Railtons known for their speed
http://www.timescolonist.com/driving/bill-vance-railtons-known-for-their-speed-1.34423

the 1936 railton marked the firm ? s zenith : in later years , the company ? s cars became heavier and slower .  the term " hybrid " now generally means a vehicle with both an electric motor and an internal combustion engine , with the engine as the primary power . but in earlier times , hybrid referred to another type -- a car from one manufacturer with an engine from another . it often meant an english car with american power such as the hudson-engined brough superior , cadillac allard , nash healey or ford-engined sunbeam tiger . the car that started it , the first production anglo-american hybrid , was the 1933 railton fitted with hudson terraplane engines .  the railton evolved from the invicta manufactured by invicta cars of cobham , surrey , england , a specialist maker since 1925 that became known for fast , expensive , low-slung , sporty cars . when the depths of the depression brought invicta to its knees in 1933 , it closed its cobham facility and moved to chelsea , london , where new venture then replaced invicta at cobham . the initiators were noel macklin , a former principal of invicta , and reid railton , a famous speed-record car engineer who designed land speed record-holding cars for both sir malcolm campbell and john cobb . he also created campbell 's bluebird ii speedboat that held the water speed record for 10 years . macklin and railton decided that mating fine english coachwork like that of the invicta with a strong american engine and running gear would produce a spirited car . they would call it the railton .  for power , they turned to a low-cost american car , the essex terraplane , which had been introduced by hudson in 1932 to cope with the depression . it came initially with a 3.2-litre side-valve , 70-horsepower six , which was five more than henry ford 's sensational new v-8 . and since it was mounted in a lighter car , it could outrun ford 's more famous v-8 .  in 1933 , hudson made a 4.0-litre , 94-horsepower , inline eight available in the terraplane , and while the terraplane it immediately began setting speed records and soon amassed over 50 american automobile association stock-car records , including climbing mount washington and pikes peak , and achieving 132 km/h at daytona beach .  the terraplane-engined railton emerged in 1933 , looking very much like the invicta . it came as a convertible coupe and touring car , later expanded to coupes and sedans . with a weight of just 1,134 kg and a 94-horsepower eight under the hood , it had sensational performance . contemporary tests indicated zero to 96 km/h in 10 seconds and top speed of 148 km/h .  this was quicker acceleration than any other english car , and would have stood up well for many years after the second world war . its top speed was challenged only by some more expensive marques like the lagonda , rolls-royce and bentley . it was much faster than the ss , forerunner of the jaguar , and became an instant favourite of the motoring press .  the fastest railton was the rare cycle-fendered railton " light sports , " of which only three or four were to be capable of 172 km/h .  the railton custom-built body was mounted on a sturdy x-braced terraplane frame with solid axles and leaf springs front and rear . power went to the rear wheels through terraplane 's manual , floor-shifted , three-speed transmission and hudson 's oil-immersed " wet " clutch .  railton made a small batch of 1933 cars with the 4.0-litre terraplane eight , then for 1934 switched to the hudson 4.2-litre eight , which gave 113 horsepower and even more spirited performance . it became a favourite of scotland yard and other police forces .  some 1934s got hudson 's " axle flex " semi-independent , parallelogram-type front suspension , but it could be troublesome and soon hudson and railton were back to solid axles .  railton went into 1935 unchanged and produced 377 cars , its best year ever . for 1936 , railton got hudson 's hydraulic brakes and a remote-control shift lever that replaced the long hudson wand .  from then on , railton seemed to lose its way as a purveyor of fast , special-interest cars . they them from competitors like mg . by 1937 , railton was back to a hudson six-cylinder engine , and then toward the end , just before the second world war , they were using 1.3-litre standard fours .  approximately a dozen railtons were assembled after the war in hudson 's chiswick facility near london using pre-war components , but its time had passed . although several anglo-american hybrids like the allard , nash-healey and jensen healey would come along , the colourful originator of the genre had passed into history .  the railton name was revived in 1989 with cars based on jaguar components , but it was not successful .