Raising the barre
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/arts-and-life/life/health/raising-the-barre-184648161.html

Raising the barre  New workout craze mixes elements of ballet training with yoga and Pilates moves  2Her sweaty students -- who are well into their hour-long exercise class -- oblige and put down the Pilates rings they were working with . With the music pounding over the speaker , they lie on mats and hold three-pound ball weights in each hand before they launch into scissor kicks , using small , rapid leg motions that have them gasping for breath .  " Grab a sip of water here if you 'd like , " urges Senderewich , whose students grab their water bottles .  Two wooden rails line each side of the room , one spanning the whole length of the room and the other ending about halfway across .  But there is n't a ballet slipper or tutu in sight at the session , a class inspired by ballet training , but which also tosses Pilates and yoga moves into the mix .  The hybrid fitness session is called a barre class ( pronounced " bar " ) and it .  Barre classes have been popping up in major cities around North America over the past year or two . Madonna , television personality Kelly Ripa and supermodel Helena Christensen -- all New Yorkers -- are reported fans of the ballet-inspired fitness craze that promises followers long , lean muscles .  Moksha Yoga on Waverley Street is the first to bring the barre method to Winnipeg , says owner Ryann Doucette , who currently lives in Minneapolis , where she has opened up a third Moksha studio .  Moksha 's signature is " hot " yoga , performed in a room heated to about 37 C.  The barre room at Moksha Yoga is room temperature , however .  Barre classes are something Doucette has had her eye on for a while .  " It 's a hot new thing that 's going on everywhere else and no one is doing it in Winnipeg yet , " says Doucette , noting barre classes emphasize small , controlled isometric movements that may look easy but offer a tough workout using props such as Pilates rings , weighted , had never heard of barre classes before his friend asked him to join her for the free class .  " It was n't what I expected , that 's for sure . I went in there expecting something on the easy side but it was a really intense workout , " says the Sturgeon Heights Collegiate graduate and former football player who was the only guy in the class .  " I did n't even bring a towel because I did n't think I was going to sweat . But I left there and I was drenched . I got a really good burn from some of the leg exercises and the core ( work ) .  " It 's a little embarrassing being the only guy in the class and not being able to keep up with everyone . "  His friend , Christine Ormiston , 25 , felt the same way .  " My sister is a personal trainer . She messaged me and was like , ' Sign up for this class . It 's free . It 's new , ' the highest in the class . " It was challenging . I feel really good now . I was sweating like crazy . "  Jennifer Gottwald , 38 , found the barre workout different than her typical hot yoga class . " This kind of opens you up more to have some fun . I like the change of pace . "  During the barre session of the class , the students lightly hold onto the barre while the instructor asks her students to back into a curtsey before quickly lunging forward and kicking one leg out .  Most of the people in the class looked as if they were familiar with yoga terminology and did n't have trouble following the yoga-inspired moves .  Senderewich notes that even yoga novices and people with tight , inflexible muscles would benefit from a barre class , since moves can be modified based on the individual 's ability . Throughout the class , Senderewich walks up and down the middle of the class , helping students align their bodies correctly if they need assistance .  " We 're pushing says . " And we repeat it . So if you do n't get it the first time , you 'll get it the second time or the third time . "  The class is a dream come true for Monica Rietvelt , a financial adviser .  A year or two ago , she watched a barre-style class in Southern California , wishing she had the courage to try it .  " It looked super tough . It was a 90-minute class and the room was partially heated . The instructor was a former triathlete . She kind of scared me , so I just watched it through the window , " says Rietvelt , who has dropped three dress sizes since taking up yoga a few years ago .  When the Winnipeg mother of two found out one of her favourite yoga studios was offering barre here , she decided it was time to " stir things up a bit . "  She has no regrets .  " I feel fantastic . I 'm probably more energized than I feel after yoga , " toughest part of the class .  As for her childhood dreams of becoming a ballerina , she says today they were , in a way , realized .  " I really did n't think I had the right body type for that ... I 've never been a small person .  You can comment on most stories on winnipegfreepress.com . You can also agree or disagree with other comments . All you need to do is be a Winnipeg Free Press print or e-edition subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback .