Celebrating The Holidays With Oil On Whyte
http://oilonwhyte.com/2012/12/24/celebrating-the-holidays-with-oil-on-whyte/

celebrating the holidays with oil on whyte  deck the halls and all of that . the nhl 's current lockout is approaching day 100 , leaving fans in a predictably sour mood . but turn the other cheek , it 's the holiday season . time for toys , and time for cheer .  we here at oil on whyte industries have carefully selected gift ideas for various members of the nhl/nhlpa . i hope everyone gets what they wanted .  nhlpa executive director donald fehr -- it has n't been an especially good week for donald fehr . the nhlpa voted by an overwhelming margin to authorize a de-certifcation ( although it has n't yet happened ) , and like bettman , fehr 's image wo n't improve as long as the lockout drags on . fehr really looks like he could use a pick-me-up . gifts should be thoughtful and practical , so donald fehr receives a one hour consultation with motivational speaker matt foley . he 'll be back on track in no time .  who else do we have in an abbreviated nhl campaign . going all in and predicting that half a season will be salvaged . getting 35 points as the oilers ' 3c might be a lofty number , but it would help quiet some of his detractors .  taylor hall and ales hemsky -- healthy shoulders . robotic shoulder implants . extra shoulders on the bench , in case one needs to be replaced . the answer is shoulders .  linus omark -- a plane ticket . guy will have an nhl job when the lockout ends . omark has 45 points ( 13-32-45 ) in 31 games with zug , which is n't exactly chicken scratch . he 's worthy of more than what he 'll be traded for . if he turns into a 50 point player with henrik zetterberg , we 'll get to hear about how he was bad in the locker room , or did n't " buy into the message " ( or some other rhetoric ) , or that he is n't an nhl player , or that he does n't like soup , or something . contract . i ca n't think of anything else that guy needs right now , maybe some snow tires ? probably not , he 's in anaheim . good on him .  nikolai khabibulin -- a streak like he had in october of 2011 . by far , his finest hour while a member of the oilers.