Every photographer tells a story
http://www.macleans.ca/authors/nick-taylor-vaisey/every-photographer-tells-a-story/

have you ever looked at a remarkable photo and wished you could hear the story behind it ? good . keep reading .  trying to find the year 's best photos is a bit of a fool 's game . the world never stops producing moments that are exciting , terrifying , morbid , heartbreaking and awe-inspiring . and photographers never stop capturing those moments . you could fill countless magazines with breathtaking images . maclean 's dedicated an entire issue packed with 2012 's finest photography . below are the stories behind five of those photos . they come from all over , just like the photographers who shot them . enjoy .  jonathan hayward ( cp ) sicamous , b.c.  jonathan hayward , who lives in vancouver , got the call to cover flash floods near sicamous , b.c. on june 24 . the next day , after a six-hour drive that got him to within minutes of the flooded area , hayward found highway 97a -- a road washed out in two places -- blocked to traffic . the friendly newfoundlander little guy " chatted up locals about how to get to the scene of the floods . eventually , hayward found a man willing to get him there by boat -- but it came at a cost .  " it 's funny . you ask how much is a boat ride to see the damage , " he recalls . " the guy 's like , ' well , would a two-four of beer work ? ' "  hayward could n't turn down that offer , and off they went . once the boat docked , he wandered around the area and , before too long , came across the house teetering into a riverbed . he was the first photographer to get the shot .  before he was posted in b.c. , hayward spent 10 years in ottawa -- a much more benign assignment , as far as natural disasters go . " it was quite eye opening , " he said .  daniel ochoa de olza ( ap ) pamplona , spain  daniel ochoa de olza tries to shoot the running of the bulls , and knows the terrain intimately -- he ran with the bulls when he was a teenager , and eventually started taking photos .  this year , de olza perched on a balcony that overlooks the final stretch of the run , a narrow space where , he says , inexperienced tourists ca n't escape the charging beasts as they round a tight corner . that can make for astounding images .  " as soon as i realized the japanese guy in the photo was not really that fast , i thought the bull might chase him and gore him , so i shot a series of photos , " de olza said . " i was lucky enough to get some pictures , and the japanese guy was lucky enough not to be gored . "  that particular tourist got lucky , only suffering minor injuries . de olza sent him emails afterwards , trying to send him some photos -- all to no avail . " i think he was a bit ashamed of all the exposure , " said de olza . " but he and nothing else . "  frank gunn ( cp ) niagara falls , ont .  frank gunn stood on top of the skylon tower as nik wallenda crossed niagara falls on a tightrope . he was part of a gaggle of photographers tasked with shooting photos of the daredevil 's long walk . they all shared the same vantage point on that clear evening , and gunn wanted his photos to stand out . so he got creative .  " you needed to show the power of niagara falls . i shot it a bit like a nature photo , " he said , explaining that he shot with a two-second exposure that captured the movement of the waterfall . " whenever you shoot a picture of water , you typically try to do a long exposure so the water paints . that 's why it 's all billowy , as opposed to being crisp . "  wallenda never stopped moving , so gunn slowly panned his camera throughout the exposure , following wallenda and keeping his frame intact . no one else captured it the same far from the action -- hundreds of metres , by gunn 's estimate -- it was almost like watching the stunt on television , he said . " it was very much like theatre . "  john minchillo ( ap ) new york , n.y .  john minchillo was in lower manhattan when sandy 's storm surge raced ashore . he was standing on a bridge overlooking the flooded brooklyn -- battery tunnel , when governor andrew cuomo showed up beside him .  so minchillo followed him around .  " cuomo probably has more information than me on things that are happening , because he has a whole crew of people who are trying to figure out where to take him next , " he said .  a few minutes later , when cuomo entered the world trade center site , minchillo followed and started snapping photos of the flooding . " i was n't photographing him at that point , because the story is the storm , and not politics , " he said . " i had to be very focused on getting that photograph in darkness . "  minchillo guesses he worked over 20 hours when sandy hit the city . " it had to be . you do n't leave the story , " he said .  for his part , however , minchillo does n't want to be known as " the guy who took the crazy photograph and defied the odds . " far from it . " i 'm just a journalist like everybody else , " he said .  rodrigo abd ( ap ) caracas , venezuela  rodrigo abd was riding on the back of a motorcycle when , out of nowhere , he spotted a man 's head peeking out of a deep puddle at the side of the road . as it turned out , that man was a city worker attempting to repair a burst pipe . abd saw more than a piece of crumbling infrastructure , however .  he 'd been sent to caracas , venezuela 's capital city , to cover the election campaign for the associated press . he witnessed quite a bit of tension : hugo chavez anxious ; the election campaign had dragged on ; and , to top it off , the economy was sputtering .  " in a way , the photo was a good metaphor of what venezuelans were facing at that moment , " he said . " even the most hardcore chavistas ... really feared that their leader was going to be defeated . "  abd had no assignment in particular that day , and was only a few blocks from the ap office in downtown caracas when he stumbled upon the burst pipe .  " i jumped from the motorcycle and started taking pictures , " he said , adding he had no idea the picture would make its way around the world .  advertisement  post navigation  every photographer tells a story  the back story is as fascinating as the photo . when i saw the photo of the tourist in the running of the bulls , i winced and then wondered how the photographer managed the shot . thanks for the explanation . the entire " best photos " issue was an evocative .  notice : your email may not yet have been verified . please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . if you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . you must have a verified email to submit a comment . once you have done so , check again .  sign in / sign up  with your existing account from  with an email account  commenters who signed up before june 26th , 2014 will have to reregister on our new , social-friendly login system . the good news ? the process should only take a few minutes , and you 're welcome to use the same email address .  almost done !  please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #socialregistrationform * * **27;56;toolong * * **26;85;toolong * * **30;113;toolong * * **29;145;toolong * by clicking " create account " , i confirm that i have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that i @ @ @ @ @ @ @