Regent College set to decrease tuition in May 2012
http://old.ubyssey.ca/news/regent-college135/

mobile leaderboard  regent college set to decrease tuition in may 2012  at a time when tuition increases have become the norm , regent college at ubc is planning to go the other way .  the regent college cabinet lowered tuition fees by 8.6 per cent through general consensus on october 18 , with the new rates coming into effect may 1 , 2012 .  " the decision to decrease tuition rates was not taken lightly , " said the regent college director of marketing and communications , sarah clayton . " we are acutely aware of the financial burden today 's student is under ... we know that increasing tuition is not sustainable . "  regent college is an international graduate school of christian studies located on ubc campus . it is formally affiliated with ubc and all regent students are members of the ams .  according to hannah dutko , vp external of the regent college student association , the tuition decrease is meant to increase enrolment .  " essentially , it was just the motivation to decrease the to see people in those seats where there 's good professors and classes . we know that people want to come , so what 's holding them back is money , " she said .  the college also changed its tuition structure to reduce the costs for students who only study part-time .  previously , students taking less than 9 credits paid $495 per credit , students taking less than 12 credits paid $480 per credit , while full-time students paid $445 per credit hour . now all students pay a flat rate of $440 per credit .  " it helps people decide whether to take more classes based on the reality of their life , not just whether it will be cheaper if they take this many more classes , " said dutko .  but students were n't expecting any changes regarding their fees .  " the students were all surprised by it . even though we all wanted lower tuition , it was n't like we thought it was possible , " said dutko .  " i was sitting next to the student . he did n't know anything about it . "  american students are expected to benefit most from the tuition savings . students from the us make up almost one-third of the regent college student body . dutko said that as the us dollar has decreased in value , us enrolment has decreased at the same rate .  first-year master of divinity student matt sidell looks forward to the change and sees the college benefiting in the long run . " if you lower the cost of anything , it actually makes people more excited about it and more likely to promote it ... i think it 's a big deal . "