Business advice from experts just a phone call away
http://business.financialpost.com/entrepreneur/business-advice-from-experts-just-a-phone-call-away

Clarity.fm : Business advice from experts just a phone call away  A Moncton , N.B. , entrepreneur who recently sold his Silicon Valley-based startup is set to launch another company this week .  On Jan. 5 , Dan Martell will unveil Clarity.fm , a web-based application that links budding entrepreneurs to advisors and experts , before a crowd of 500 people at the Capitol Theatre in Moncton .  As Mr. Martell explains it , the service " connects speakers with seekers . "  Those speakers will include more than 350 of " the world 's best technology entrepreneurs and venture capitalists . " Real estate moguls , marketers and best-selling authors are also on board , he says . Spanning from Silicon Valley to Boston , New York and Canada , users will be a phone call away from the advisor of their choice . Once connected , the advisor aids the entrepreneur and charges a fee for his or her time .  " Clarity is the easiest way to get paid for your advice , " Mr. Martell says , adding fees . Advisors can choose to donate their fee to charity ( in which case Clarity wo n't take a percentage ) . Mr. Martell says he hopes Clarity will generate $1-million for charity in January alone .  He left Moncton for Silicon Valley in 2008 after selling Spheric Technologies Inc. , which developed social media applications for large companies such as Johnson &amp; Johnson and Procter &amp; Gamble . Spheric Technologies , which Mr. Martell launched in 2004 with his life savings of $70,000 -- it nearly went bankrupt in the first six weeks -- turned out to be the inspiration for Clarity .  In San Francisco , he launched social media firm Flowtown with $750,000 , which he raised from big name investors , including Mitch Kapor , the founder of Lotus Software . That company was bought this past October by San Francisco-based Demandforce for a figure " in the millions . " As part of the buyout , Mr. Martell agreed to stay on at Demandforce for a full year . He resigned in December to focus fully on Clarity .  " I started now , " he says . " I decided this idea is too important . "  Mr. Martell is self-funding the venture with roughly $200,000 . Initially , New Brunswickers will get " first crack " at the service , says Mr. Martell , who is building a new house in Moncton and plans to live in the city half the year . After the official launch , Clarity will be available to anyone seeking entrepreneurial advice .  Many New Brunswickers , including Gerry Pond , the godfather of that province 's tech sector , are on Clarity 's roster of experts .  How did Spheric spark the idea for Clarity ? Two years into the business , when Mr. Martell was completely lost , he got some advice from an unlikely source .  " I was clueless . I did n't know what I was doing . I did n't know if what I was building was interesting or a big waste of time , " he recalls .  Desperate , he sent a " cold " email to former New Brunswick premier Frank McKenna McKenna , now deputy chair of TD Bank Group , directed Mr. Martell to some of New Brunswick 's top tech founders , including Mr. Pond , Ken Nickerson , and Ian Cavanagh .  Mr. Martell still turns to them for advice . " Nothing will change an entrepreneur 's life more than talking to a person who has done it successfully before , " he says . " A 10-minute phone call can change a person 's life . "