What to See at the Next Stage Theatre Festival
http://torontoist.com/2012/01/what-to-see-at-the-next-stage-theatre-festival/

what to see at the next stage theatre festival  simon bracken and leah doz in tomasso 's party , the first play from author jules lewis .  the holidays are over , most of us are back at work , and it 's cold . really cold . but before you strap on your sad hats and grumpy galoshes for good until the first sign of spring , you should probably check out a play or two at the 2012 next stage festival , the annual winter companion to the toronto fringe festival .  in its fifth year , the nsf is presenting 10 shows from january 4 to 15 at the factory theatre . there 's something for everyone : shows both familiar and brand new , artists both up-and-coming and iconic , and themes ranging from the absurd to the political to the dramatic . not to mention a heated beer tent .  so get a taste of the summer in the coldest time of the year , and catch a show at the next stage festival . here are the stranger , or how to recognize an invertecce homo theatre  ecce homo 's cabaret shows , with their use of found text and the critical eyes they cast on polarizing figures such as mother teresa and lady gaga , are always provocative , but loving the stranger is perhaps artistic director alistair newton 's most personal show of late . poignantly , the central figure in the play 's story , montreal artist and designer peter flinsch , passed away on the same day the show had its first public workshop ( the show had its full debut at the 2010 summerworks festival ) . flinsch was arrested for kissing a nazi officer at a party in 1942 , and newton , who learned about flinsch while in germany researching mid-century anti-gay laws , was the last person to interview flinsch before his death . since the first run of loving , newton has updated the show , which also encompasses california 's gay marriage debates . ( steve fisher )  tomasso 's partyrooftop creations  this premiere embodies the festival 's blend of emerging and established theatrical talents witty dialogue in his 2010 novel waiting for ricky tantrum , but makes his script-writing debut with tomasso 's party , which revolves around a romantic relationship choked with anxieties and quirks . the participants in said relationship are also relatively new to toronto 's theatre scene -- both simon bracken and leah doz are recent grads of the esteemed national theatre school in montreal . but a name definitely worthy of dropping is dora award-winning actor nigel shawn williams , who takes directorial reigns on this show on the heels of rave reviews over his performance in topdog/underdog ( he also directed last year 's acclaimed brothel #9 ) . together , this team makes for one of the festival 's most exciting shows . ( carly maga )  the next stage festival features a few crowd favourites from the previous year 's fringe festival ( including a few of our own , too ) , but perhaps the most welcome return is the sketch troupe uncalled for , with their wacky journey through the mental limbo between consciousness and sleep , hypnogogic logic . unbounded by rationality and and concepts in a manner that somehow earns the latter half of the title . though toronto audiences have been able to catch uncalled for since , we 're looking forward to seeing this best of fringe uptown choice on stage again . in fact , we 're practically snoring in anticipation . ( carly maga )  amy lee &amp; heather marie annis ' morro and jasp clown characters ' new show , go bake yourself , is in the new antechamber series at the next stage festival . photo by alex nirta .  next stage is trying something a little different this year , programming two shows into the factory theatre 's cozy upstairs bar as part of their inaugural antechamber series . happily , both shows are easy recommendations for us . love is a poverty you can sellwas a hit of the 2010 fringe festival , and the 2012 edition is a " condensed " version of the kurt weill cabaret , with a smaller orchestra , but many of the delightful numbers are intact ( including christian jefferies ' two very different torch songs , between m.c. 's hans and jodel ( ryan anning and scott dermody ) . the other antechamber presentation is a new clown show from morro and jasp , who 've been one of the most popular clown acts on the fringe circuit ( heck , in toronto altogether ) in recent years . for go bake yourself , the two bickering sisters have very different ideas of what sort of cooking show they want to star in : an intense iron chef-style competition , or a julia child-style love-in . ( steve fisher )  looking towards this summer 's upcoming fringe festival , expectations are high for this year 's new play contest winner , kat sandler , and her play help yourself . ( last year 's winner , ins choi 's kim 's convenience , was a runaway hit , and will be remounted by soulpepper theatre . ) in the meantime , the next stage festival is offering a sample of what 's to come with a remount of theatre brouhaha 's lovesexmoney . sandler is brouhaha 's artistic director , and this show was the company new and returning performers and creators , we 're looking forward to getting a glimpse of how the team has grown in their first year of operation , and an idea of where they 're going next . ( carly maga )  correction : january 3 , 5:00 pm we original wrote that loving the stranger premiered at the fringe festival ; in fact , it was at the summerworks festival .