Snail-mail shipping vital to small firms
http://business.financialpost.com/entrepreneur/snail-mail-shipping-vital-to-small-firms

but while the world of communications is undergoing a drastic digital change , an affordable canadian postal system is essential for the survival of many canadian businesses , particularly small entrepreneurs , a clutch of local business owners say .  " my business would not exist without the postal system because couriers are outrageously expensive , " said becky stone , the co-owner of the hudson , que. -based organic quilt company .  her firm 's two online stores ship to customers around the world and the firm also imports many of the supplies it uses in its creations from the united states . ms. stone said the brokerage fees charged by courier firms that ship across the u.s. border are too steep for her home-based business to absorb , leaving canada post her only option .  " canada post charges an official customs fees that is a fraction of what the courier firms cost , " she said .  if she was forced to hike her prices to cover courier brokerage costs , her items , which sell from around $15 for quilt , would be too expensive for her customers and her business model would no longer function .  toronto-based retail analyst john williams expects the use of postal services in canada will dramatically decrease in the near future .  " the post office management has got to get used to it and face the facts and act accordingly , " he said , adding that the u.s. postal service is losing millions .  the u.s. postal service said this month it would cut back on services and shut down more than 200 mail processing centres , which would increase mail delivery times .  annie dubois , the owner of the booming dringdring inc. , which makes hand-painted bicycle bells , says cutbacks at canada post could be disastrous for her business .  " my entire online business depends on the canada post service , " she said . " i ca n't depend on fedex because the cost of shipping one bell is equal to the cost of the bell or more . "  ms. dubois had a huge surge in overseas orders this month christmas gifts . " it was non-stop , " she said , as customers in england bought hundreds of bells during the night from her website while she was sleeping . " it really went crazy . "  ms. dubois said she would n't have been able to afford to fill those orders without canada post . she benefits from a shipping discount available from canada post to small entrepreneurs called the venture 1 program when she sends small packages using standard international airmail delivery .  " it 's the cheapest way to ship internationally when i send a bell to japan or australia -- like i do every week , " she said .  despite the challenges facing the canadian postal service sector , retail analyst mr. williams acknowledged canada post still plays a vital role for small canadian entrepreneurs .  " i used to own a catalogue business and canada post was our lifeblood , " he said . " we could n't afford to ship by courier.