First flag-raising for Black History Month
http://windsorstar.com/news/local-news/first-flag-raising-for-black-history-month

local african-canadian achievement now officially has a higher profile , thanks to city hall 's first ever flag-raising to mark the start of black history month .  several dozen people gathered at city hall square on wednesday to raise a windsor-designed flag and to talk of windsor 's connection to african-canadian history . and to sing .  " a lot of people do n't know that there were actually two emancipation proclamations , " said marc taylor , president of the windsor &amp; district black coalition . " they know about the american one but they have no clue about the canadian one . and the canadian one was 30 years ahead of the americans . "  the government of upper canada freed slaves in canada on aug. 1 , 1834 , which encouraged thousands to escape slavery in the united states and head to freedom in canada . by contrast , abraham lincoln made his emancipation proclamation jan. 1 , 1863 .  " it 's not a black thing , " taylor said after the flag-raising ceremony . " without the quakers us how to survive . without the proclamation that was passed by the british parliament , there would be no place for those slaves fleeing from the south to run to , this beautiful promised land called canada . "  local african-canadian leaders expressed pride in their past and sang a capella versions of o canada , lift every voice and sing ( also known as the black national anthem ) , and amazing grace .  " we are somebody , " councillor ron jones said several times at the lectern , channelling the speeches of martin luther king to encouragements such as ' all right ' and ' say it ' from the crowd . " we need a black history month in order to help us arrive at an understanding of ourselves as canadians . "  when i hear music i see colour , an art exhibition at mackenzie hall , runs from feb. 10 to 21 .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .