Facebook isn't free: The real cost of online sharing
http://www.vancouversun.com/business/Facebook+free+real+cost+online+sharing/6087163/story.html

Facebook is n't free : The real cost of online sharing  Scope of company 's data collection makes it an ' advertiser 's dream '  Facebook on Wednesday filed to raise $5 billion in an initial public offering .  Photograph by : Leon Neal , AFP/Getty Images  You may not put a price on your privacy but Facebook does .  The giant social networking company counts on its 845 million users ' willingness to share personal information to make money . It gives you all sorts of services , from posting those cute baby photos to finding out what your friends are reading .  In return Facebook gets a treasure trove of data to mine -- from your favourite music to your tastes in sushi to the last book you read -- and parlays it into lucrative ad sales .  As the company filed papers Wednesday for its initial public offering to raise at least $5 billion , making it one of the largest IPOs in the United States and the largest Internet IPO , it 's clear investors also  And it underscores just how much people are willing to give up in return for getting free online services .  " These free services they give , they are not free , " said Simon Fraser University communications professor Peter Chow-White . " They may not cost money , but we are entering into an agreement , we are getting something for free . But what we are going to give up is our privacy , at least with that company . "  Lest you think your updates and activities are n't of interest to anyone but your Facebook friends , consider this quote from Kathleen Smith , principal of IPO investment adviser Renaissance Capital in a Computerworld story :  " The social networking king is an advertiser 's dream , accessing the intimate social interactions of one in every 10 people in the world . "  Last year , Facebook earned $1 billion on sales of $3.7 billion , with advertising -- at close to $3.2 billion -- accounting for 85 per cent of its revenue .  Facebook is n't alone in making money Google , a company currently facing its own controversy . In Google 's case , the furore arose over the unification of the privacy policies of its many services , from Gmail to YouTube and others , under a single policy . The net effect is as long as you are signed into a Google service , the company can collect all your activities on its other services , compiling a wealth of data on you that could be used for targeted advertising .  But users may be pushing back . Google has come under criticism for its privacy update and more than half of users surveyed by the security firm Sophos say they are worried about Facebook 's move to make its new feature Timeline mandatory for all users .  Timeline is a digital scrapbook that collects every item on your Facebook profile , starting with your baby photos or videos and moving right along to the latest song you listened to or the update in which you complained about your boss .  You can put a limit on just who can go back in your timeline A quick perusal of Facebook shows many users either do n't know or do n't care about their privacy settings .  Chow-White says the risks in online sharing have n't reached a point where people are worried about it . Sure , there are the stories about people losing jobs over intemperate posts , losing insurance cases , or in the case of Stanley Cup rioters , being identified through their online boasting .  But it 's not enough to scare people .  " Also , as they becomes more and more important in how we organize our business lives , our home lives and our friendships , our communications networks become really important for doing that , " Chow-White said .  Chow-White suggests there is not enough critical mass around the issue to lead us to really understand the risks of online sharing .  " Until that risk is really understood , the benefits of being in the network far outweigh the risks of being in the network for now and that does n't seem to be slowing down , " he said .  when sharing everything is the norm , the risks and the consequences may become apparent too late .  " Some of them do n't know the consequences of sharing everything , especially as their digital footprint or digital identity will be walking into the room with them on job applications , " Chow-White said .  " What will be on the table wo n't just be their CV , it will be their Facebook account , their Twitter account , all sorts of things . "  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .