First Jobs: Get a sense of the 'real world,' John Campion says
http://business.financialpost.com/legal-post/first-jobs-get-a-sense-of-the-real-world-john-campion-says

first jobs : get a sense of the ' real world , ' john campion says  lawyers give advice for a living , so it 's no surprise that when susan brophy down asked some of canada 's top commercial lawyers for tips on finding a first legal job , they were happy to share their views about how they landed their own first positions . we published accounts from katherine kay and stephen halperin in the feb. 1 legal post . here 's one from litigator john campion of fasken martineau dumoulin llp . we 'll have more in the coming days .  bio via rail , mccain foods , air canada and ups are some of the clients john campion has represented as a senior class action defence lawyer in various appeals right up to the supreme court of canada . his cases before public and administrative tribunals have involved a range of issues from shareholder rights to patents , including nuclear reactor construction and deregulation of canada 's natural gas industry . a partner and former head of the firm 's litigation in 1972 at the university of toronto where he later taught . he was also an adjunct professor of law at osgoode law school .  in those far gone days professors recommended people to law firms . we did n't know for sure , but i think letters were sent . i got offered jobs without interviews and i accepted one company 's offer midway through my third year . then i went to the funeral for joyce mclennan , secretary to ( university of toronto 's legendary dean of law ) caesar ( cecil ) wright . i met justice john laskin , who said " why did n't you come to us ? ( at fasken ) . " the other company 's chief litigator had left the firm , and since i wanted to go into litigation , i switched .  i advise people to write for student law journals , participate in student life , and do something interesting . it shows you can think . people are looking at cvs for what you 've done . i 've never been a believer in working before graduating ) . i was a tour guide for horizon holidays for seven years . i learned how the world worked and how people operated . get a sense of the real world by taking the canadian securities course or a business program to give you a broader view of the economy so you do n't wonder what a mortgage or a security is when you walk in the door on the first day .