Officer faces murder charge
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/canada/officer-faces-murder-charge-140273153.html

officer faces murder charge  shooting occurred during police raid in toronto  toronto -- a toronto police officer is facing a charge of second-degree murder in what 's being called an extreme rarity in the country and a first in the history of the force .  const . david cavanagh was originally charged with manslaughter in the shooting death of eric osawe , 26 , in september 2010 . it was upgraded thursday at a court appearance from the original charge .  cp  eric osawe is shown in a family handout photo . a toronto police officer is facing a charge of second-degree murder in what 's being called a first in the history of the force.const . david cavanagh was originally charged with manslaughter in the shooting death of osawe , 26 , in september 2010 . it was upgraded thursday at a court appearance from the original charge.the canadian press/ho  cp  toronto police service photo toronto police const . david cavanagh ( above ) originally faced a manslaughter charge in the death of eric osawe ( inset ) during unit , an arm's-length agency that investigates reports involving police where there has been death , serious injury or allegations of sexual assault , laid the charge in consultation with the crown .  it 's the first time a toronto police officer has been charged with murder for an on-the-job incident and it sends a " very disturbing message " to police , said toronto police association president mike mccormack .  " to suggest that an officer performing his duties executing a search warrant with a team would have intent to murder somebody is absolutely appalling , " he said .  " we 've lost confidence in the crown attorneys ' office and the siu for our members to be treated fairly and impartially . "  the emergency task force and guns and gangs unit were searching an apartment in the city 's west end on sept. 29 , 2010 , when the siu alleges cavanagh shot osawe .  he was shot in the back , said julian falconer , the family 's lawyer .  osawe 's close-knit family has been distraught over his death will be asked at a murder trial , falconer said .  " the charge that const . cavanagh is facing is very serious so it 's not a day for celebration , " he said .  cavanagh 's lawyer questioned why the charge was upgraded , saying as far as the defence knows there is no new evidence .  " there has been no adequate explanation given to the defence , " said peter brauti .  mccormack is concerned the charge will have a chilling effect on police officers .  he said he has already heard comments to that effect from some of them .  " we have to know that when we 're making split-second decisions and taking action ... that our actions will be judged fairly and this clearly indicates to my members that they wo n't be , " mccormack said .  cavanagh is free on bail and his preliminary inquiry is scheduled for oct. 1 .