Looking back on a myriad of Martlets.
http://publications.mcgill.ca/reporter/2012/03/looking-back-on-a-myriad-of-martlets/

looking back on a myriad of martlets ...  they are ubiquitous to the point that , ironically , many of us do n't even notice them any more . martlets , those footless red birds of mythological fame that have been one of the mcgill 's most recognizable symbols for more than 160 years .  martlets first flew onto campus in 1850 , appearing on diplomas and again the following year on the university 's annual calendar . over the ensuing decades , martlets of all shapes and sizes have appeared on official university items , such as flags , documents and mcgill 's coat of arms , to more whimsical items like playbills , sports uniforms and winter carnival floats .  brochure , winter carnival , 1952 .  in 1922 , principal sir arthur currie asked architecture professor percy nobbs to design a coat of arms , the patent for which was granted that year by the garter-king-at-arms in london , england . different versions of the coat-of-arms were in use until 1975 , when mcgill 's board of governors settled upon the chief herald of canada in 1992 .  " in our holdings we have lots of martlets that are more serious in nature that link back to the heraldry and james mcgill . but we also see martlets being depicted with lots of humour and creativity especially when it comes to student activities , " says theresa rowat , director mcgill university archives . " seeing the two side by side is really fun . "  a postcard published by raphael tuck &amp; sons , circa 1907 .  as part of mcgill 's ongoing 190th anniversary celebrations , rowat and her team worked in collaboration with lisa kisiel from graphic design to create two displays commemorating a myriad of martlets through the years . one is located on the first floor of the james building and the other can be found in the passageway connecting redpath library to mclennan library .  see pages 6-7 in the print edition of the mcgill reporter for more samples of the material from the displays .  currently you have javascript disabled . in order to post comments , please make page.click here for instructions on how to enable javascript in your browser.