End of the seal hunt will have domino effect, sealers say
http://www.thestar.com/news/canada/2012/03/02/end_of_the_seal_hunt_will_have_domino_effect_sealers_say.html

with just weeks to go before the april seal hunt starts off the newfoundland and labrador coast , the international market for pelts has all but disappeared , says the canadian sealers association .  " in previous years 95 per cent of our products went into russia and on jan. 1 the russian federation announced a ban on all seal products . . . and there is not alternative place to sell it right now , " frank pinhorn , executive director of the association , told the toronto star friday .  even last year , when russia was still in the game , only a few thousand seals were killed because the price for pelts was only $20 compared to a high of $115 in 2006 .  " the laws of economics wo n't allow you do it , " pinhorn said given the cost of fuel and ammunition .  pinhorn said the slow death of the sealing industry will set off a domino effect -- more seals and less fish . together , he said , this spells the end to herd of ( harp seals ) is getting larger every year , " he said noting that the ice conditions this year are " near perfect " for the females to give birth to an expected 1.6 million pups .  the estimated seal harp seal population has doubled since 2005 from 5.6 million to more than 9 million , pinhorn said , adding that each one of them eat 1.4 tonnes of fish each year .  " the question is this the end of harvesting seals ? well , if it is it is also the end of rural newfoundland and labrador as we know it . what happens if the herd goes to 12 million or even 15 million ? "  pinhorn said not only are the seals gobbling up the fish stock , there has also been a 35 per cent decrease in the crab quota " because seal consume a tremendous amount of female crabs . "  pinhorn said not only will there not be seal pelts , there wo n't be seal oil for omega 3 capsules , which are a popular supplement do not know if any seals are being bought this year , " he said .  newfoundland fisheries minister darin king said in january the government was considering buying pelts for a stockpile that would be sold off if and when markets improve .