Tour of serial killer Dahmer's hunting grounds spark backlash
http://www.thestar.com/news/world/2012/03/02/tour_of_serial_killer_dahmers_hunting_grounds_spark_backlash.html

a marketing group in wisconsin wants to give walking tours of the bar where serial killer jeffrey dahmer met and hung out with some of his victims .  sara drescher , manager at 5th ward pub in the walker 's point neighborhood in milwaukee , where a marketing company is organizing a walking tour of bars where serial killer jeffrey dahmer hunted his victims . drescher has mixed feelings on the subject .  by:carrie antlfingerassociated press , published on fri mar 02 2012  milwaukee -- a marketing group in wisconsin wants to give walking tours of the bar where serial killer jeffrey dahmer met and hung out with some of his victims .  but when victims ' families and others found out about the tours this week through a groupon promotion for a cut-rate tour , they started calling for the tour , which they described as insensitive and in poor taste , to end .  bam marketing and media spokeswoman amanda morden said thursday the company is not deterred and the first two tours are saturday in milwaukee and have nearly group president victor ray , who says it 's too soon for a tour since the crimes are just 2 decades old and many family members of dahmer 's victims are still around .  " i just do n't think this is the right timing , " said ray , who heads the walker 's point association . " and a tour of the area is not the right thing to do . it 's sensationalism in its finest . "  ray said he 's received 75 emails , most against the tours , and that some plan to protest saturday , including some family members of victims . he said he 's been in contact with one victim 's mother , who asked for his group 's help .  " she said ' do what you can to stop it , ' " ray said . the woman did n't want to be interviewed by reporters .  he met with morden and another tour group representative thursday night and hoped he had convinced them to quit the tours . but morden said they have a legitimate the crimes , rather than the sensational nature of them .  dahmer , a chocolate factory worker , would frequent gay bars in the area . he was arrested in 1991 and admitted to killing 17 young men , some of whom he mutilated and cannibalized . he was serving life prison sentences when a fellow inmate beat him to death in 1994 .  his apartment building -- where he stored body parts -- was eventually razed . there 's been talk over the years about putting a memorial there , but the idea has received mixed reactions . morden said they hoped to put a plaque with the victims ' names on one of the businesses in the area as a memorial .  she also said a portion of the tour profits will be donated to charity , although a specific one has n't been chosen .  ray called it a token gesture . " i do n't think that 's going to make a difference to the community , " he said .  the area is in the middle of a revitalized section of that once housed bars dahmer would frequent .  morden described it as a legitimate walking tour that looked at the killer 's crimes from a historical perspective , rather than with macabre fascination . she compared it to a book or a documentary , but in a different format .  " whether we like it or not it 's part of our city 's history , " she said . " it 's part of our nation 's history . "  morden said she thought enough time had passed to look at the crimes objectively . the tour group is sensitive to the victims ' families , she said , but has not sought their feedback .  " we are not being evasive in any way , " she said . " if there is a concern we would be happy to address it . "  at least two schools have expressed interest for educational reasons , she said . plans have been made to meet with them next week .  groupon offered two tickets for $25 , instead of the normal $60 , and " into dahmer 's life . but only 15 tickets sold before the daily-deal website closed the promotion . spokesman nicholas halliwell said in an emailed statement that it was never groupon 's intention to offend anyone .  it 's not unusual for gruesome crimes to become part of a city 's lore . there are tours in london about jack the ripper , in los angeles about charles manson , and in boston about the boston strangler .  but local tourism group visit milwaukee wo n't promote it .  " we do n't need to give notoriety to an individual like jeffrey dahmer who did painful and hurtful things and did nothing to further the community 's image , " spokeswoman jeannine sherman said .  alderman james witkowiak said the city ca n't stop the tours because organizers are using public spaces and they are protected by free speech laws .  it 's more of a grey area for sara drescher , who manages a pub in the neighbourhood . she did n't think it would affect business and she doubted there would be much people being able to start a business but not at the expense of victims ' families .  " it 's a difficult thing , and i do n't know the right way for it to be handled , " drescher said .