Canadian envoy to Iceland sparks loonie controversy
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/economy/currencies/canadian-envoy-to-iceland-sparks-loonie-controversy/article552619/

iceland 's newfound love for the loonie is sparking a wave of controversy , from reykjavik to ottawa .  for 150 years , the rest of the world has shown scant interest in the canadian dollar -- the poor cousin to the coveted u.s. greenback .  but now tiny iceland , still reeling from the aftershocks of the devastating collapse of its banks in 2008 , is looking longingly to the loonie as the salvation from wild economic gyrations and suffocating capital controls .  social media  former industry minister jim prentice , now cibc 's vice-chair , is photographed at the globe and mail , march 1 , 2012 . he had been speaking about " the economic benefits of nation building infrastructure investment across canada ; the challenges to canadian manufacturing of a high canadian dollar ; and how the nation can navigate a way forward . " peter power/ the globe and mail  market view  canadian ambassador to iceland alan bones had planned to deliver remarks to a conference on the future of the icelandic krona , making it , with all its inherent risks , canada was ready to talk .  but his speech , slated for saturday , was abruptly cancelled when news of the remarks was reported in iceland and canada , led by the globe and mail .  " once we got wind of the speechand it went through the approval channels , we decided it was not an appropriate venue , " said joseph lavoie , foreign minister john baird 's press secretary . " it 's a political event . so that the decision was made that it 's not an appropriate event for him to speak at . . . while he may have thought about delivering those remarks , those remarks wo n't be delivered . "  mr. lavoie pointed to a statement issued late friday by the department as the government 's official position .  " canada does not comment publicly on other countries ' currencies , " according to the statement . " this is an issue for the icelandic government and people . "  a group of prominent icelandic business leaders approached mr. bones , to a meeting the country 's opposition progressive party , would have been canada 's first public response .  the bank of canada referred all calls about the issue to the finance department , where officials were tight-lipped .  there 's a compelling economic case why iceland would want to adopt the canadian dollar . it offers the tantalizing prospect of a stable , liquid currency that roughly tracks global commodity prices , nicely matching iceland 's own economy , which is dependent on fish and aluminum exports , and in the future , energy .  there 's also a more sentimental reason . they 're both cold , arctic countries .  " the average person looks at it this way : canada is a younger version of the u.s. canada has more natural resources than the u.s. , it 's less developed , has more land , lots of water , " explained heidar gudjonsson , an economist and chairman of the research centre for social and economic studies , iceland 's largest think tank .  " and canada thinks about the arctic . in the 27-member euro zone . but support among icelanders is slipping .  in a recent gallup poll , seven out of 10 icelanders said they would happily dump their volatile and fragile krona for another currency . their favoured alternative is the canadian dollar , easily outscoring the u.s. dollar , the euro and the norwegian krone .  iceland is in a bind . the country imposed strict currency controls after its spectacular banking collapse in 2008 . foreign-exchange transactions are capped at 350,000 kronur ( about $3,500 ) . a major downside of those controls is that foreign investors ca n't repatriate their profits , making iceland an unattractive place to do business .  those capital controls are slated to start coming off next year . and many experts fear a return to the wild swings of the past -- in inflation , lending rates and the currency itself . iceland is the smallest country in the world still clinging to its own currency and monetary policy . the krona soared nearly 90 per cent between 2001 and 2007 , only to crash 92 per cent icelandic government plan is to adopt the euro . iceland has applied to join the european union and eventually the euro zone . but that 's not looking like a very attractive option these days . and formal entry could take a decade , experts said .  the other options are to peg the krona to another currency , such as the yen , greenback or euro .  it 's hard to imagine canada would object . iceland would n't have a say in canadian monetary policy and the dollars coursing through its small economy ( $12-billion in gdp versus canada 's $1.8-trillion ) would be a blip in the bank of canada 's management of the money supply .  unilaterally taking on another country 's currency is not unheard of . el salvador took on the u.s. dollar in 2001 . ecuador did the same in 2000 . and kosovo adopted the euro in 2002 .  there are some good reasons canada might want to see iceland embrace the loonie .  " if you join a new currency area it means you are completely open out .  adoption of the canadian dollar could open opportunities for canadian shipping companies , fish packers , banks , insurers and eventually oil distributors and service companies as the country taps undeveloped resources .  " trade between the countries would obviously multiply , " mr. gudjonsson argued .  but the greatest benefit for canada could be enhanced geopolitical influence in a region that 's poised to grow in economic clout .  the arctic is the last frontier for the mining and oil and gas industries , sectors where canada is already a global player . the arctic holds an estimated 22 per cent of the world 's remaining conventional oil and gas , and vast untapped mineral potential .  the transition would n't be easy . the icelandic government , through its central bank , would authorize commercial banks to exchange kronur for loonies . at today 's exchange rate , it would take roughly 100 kronur to buy a dollar . iceland would need very strong reserves to conduct the operation , which might require an extended period when both currencies would be in compared  iceland  iceland began issuing its own currency , the krona , in 1885 , replacing the danish currency .  the flipside of the iceland notes carry scenes of girls learning to embroider , a monastic scribe and 16th-century printers on the job .  one krona is worth less than a canadian cent .  the 1,000 krona note bears the image of brynjolfur sveinsson , a 17th century lutheran bishop . he is best known for compiling and preserving old norse literature .  $7.87 - the value of 1,000 krona  canada  canada began issuing its own currency in 1870 . chartered were also allowed to issue their own notes . when the bank of canada was created in 1934 , assumed responsibility for paper notes and allowed chartered banks to print their own for another 10 years .  canada 's paper currency features such figures as former prime minister john a. macdonald and queen elizabeth ii .  the flipside of canadian notes features such scenes as children playing hockey , native art and peacekeepers .  canada 's eighth prime minister liberal-conservative party government from 1911 to 1920 . he is best known for leading canada during the first world war .  restrictions  all rights reserved . republication or redistribution of thomson reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in thomson reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' thomson reuters ' and the thomson reuters logo are trademarks of thomson reuters and its affiliated companies .