Romario harshly criticises FIFA and Brazilian president Rousseff
http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/321500

romario harshly criticises fifa and brazilian president rousseff  rio de janeiro - former soccer star romario , turned politician , has expressed severe doubts about his country 's ability to organize " the greatest soccer world cup of all times . " he has indicated that it may turn out to be " the greatest heist in the history of brazil " .  romario , the soccer player  romario de souza faria , a.k.a . rom ? rio or o baixinho ( portuguese for " shorty " , because of his height ) is a former brazilian footballer who played for several top brazilian soccer teams . he has also played for psv eindhoven in netherlands , for fc barcelona and fc valencia in spain , al-sadd sc of qatar , and for miami fc in the usa . he helped the brazilian national team achieve victory at the 1994 fifa world cup and has been one of the all-time top scorers in the sport , only comparable to brazil 's pel ? and ronaldo , and to diego maradona of argentina ( see least twice , in 2008 and 2009 , and in 2010 he got involved in brazilian federal politics , running for election as a member of the chamber of deputies in the brazilian socialist party list . he was elected with the sixth largest vote in the state of rio de janeiro .  romario , the politician  as a politician romario has been largely concerned about his country 's preparations to host the 2014 fifa world  cup . in several occasions he has criticised the level of preparation of the country for the important international event , particularly in connection with the expected date of completion of several stadiums and in the organization and readiness of the ground transportation systems in several cities .  in recent days romario has hardened his rhetoric and accused dilma rousseff , the brazilian president , and joseph blatter , the president of the international federation of association football ( fifa ) of deceiving brazilians about how well the preparatory work is progressing . last week rousseff and blatter had a meeting to evaluate progress to which congressmen were not invited . president dilma is being deceived or is letting people deceive her , ' ' romario said . " it will be the greatest heist in the history of brazil . then i 'll want to see if the people who were smiling in the photograph in that meeting will want to show up again . brazil is a circus and you already know who the clowns are . ' ' he added .  romario has been an outspoken critic of the preparatory work carried out so far complaining about serious overspending and misuse of public funds . he insists that important work that should be going on right now is being purposely delayed until it becomes " emergency work " , thus obviating the need for tenders and a regular bidding process .  romario 's " glass roof "  the 2014 fifa world cup may result a complete success , or possibly a great disaster , and deputy romario may end up being right . unfortunately , deputy romario 's personal reputation and credibility are not all that great . he  brazilian soccer player romario leaves jail screengrab from elmundo.es ) .  elmundo  was elected to office despite a poor personal record and being a highly controversial character . in addition to the great praise he has received for his exploits on the soccer field , o baixinho has often been in the press because of wrongdoings . during his soccer career he was also known for his love of nightlife , absences from training , unruly behavior , failing a doping test , and frequent fights .  in 2005 romario was ordered to pay us$ 22,200 to former soccer player zico ( arthur antunes coimbra ) as compensation for " moral damage " when he used zico 's image on the doors of toilets in a bar he was operating in rio de janeiro . in 2009 he was in prison for defaulting on child support payments , and in the same year he was sentenced to three and half years in prison and a fine of us$ 890,000 for failure to declare income and tax evasion . his sentence was reduced on appeal to two and a half years of community service and of his flaws , the fact is that deputy romario holds , along with another showman , francisco everardo oliveira silva ( a.k.a . clown tiririca ) , a seat in brazil 's federal congress . after being elected in sao paulo state with the highest national vote , deputy oliveira was able to fend off accusations of illiteracy by obtaining 30% in a simple test and demonstrating that he could read and write , thus keeping his post as a federal deputy .  still , we must assume that brazilians accept as true that federal politics and the organization of the 2014 fifa world cup are in good hands .