New brown trout fishing opportunity for Cape Breton anglers
http://www.capebretonpost.com/Opinion/Columns/2012-03-20/article-2935330/New-brown-trout-fishing-opportunity-for-Cape-Breton-anglers/1

new brown trout fishing opportunity for cape breton anglers  the 2012 general sport fishing season will open in most parts of cape breton on april 1 and this year cape breton anglers will be able to take advantage of an extended season for brown trout in the bras d'or lake .  this year anglers will be able to fish brown trout year around in the areas open for rainbow trout . the bag limit will be a total of two fish of either species during the period from oct. 1 to march 31 .  every year i hear of more anglers fishing for and catching brown trout . this is no surprise when you consider how well they have adapted to our waters . brown trout , known scientifically as salmo trutta , are not native to north america . their natural range is europe . first introduced in nova scotia in 1923 , in the milford haven river of guysborough county , brown trout have become well established in several areas of cape breton . since the first fish stocks which were imported referred to them as german browns . later stocks came from loch leven in scotland so some strains were referred to as loch leven trout .  as their name suggests , brown trout are brown or golden brown in colour . they grow rapidly , and can reach some impressive sizes . in europe fish up to 68 pounds have been caught while a sea run brown trout weighing 28 pounds was caught in witless bay , newfoundland in 1962 .  brown trout are generally found in the same habitats as brook trout but due to their larger size , and their ability to tolerate higher water temperatures , they often displace brook trout from their range . brown trout tend to seek out deep holes under banks and overhanging trees or anywhere there is some cover . these fish lie low during the day and become active at night . fishing them at dusk can be very productive , and exciting .  anglers living in cape breton are fortunate in having a wide selection of brown trout fishing opportunities to choose from . two top areas are produced two current nova scotia record brown trout . an 18.4 pound fish caught by charlie lahey in 2007 , which is the top brown trout in the catch and keep category , and a fish which measured 21.5 inches caught by pat young in 2009 is the leader in the live release category .  in addition to resident trout these areas also have sea run populations of brown trout which makes for fast action during the annual run . these sea run fish have spent several seasons feeding in the food-rich coastal areas and can reach some impressive sizes .  fishing for brown trout can sometimes make for challenging angling . early in the season spinning gear with worms or minnows can be very successful . later on in the summer when the water drops they can be very selective in what they eat . the exception is in the evening when the big browns go on the prowl . these big trout pretty well eat everything that swims so a big muddler minnow or mouse imitation can trigger some violent strikes .  tight lines .  annual cape breton anglers dinner and auction being held this year at the cape breton exhibition grounds on may 5 . for information and tickets call 736-2649 .  cape breton native don maclean is a fisheries biologist and a resident of pictou . he writes on sportfishing for a variety of publications . you can reach him at **29;224;toolong