Canadian Armed Forces Go Mobile with Kelowna-based ...
http://www.techvibes.com/blog/canadian-armed-forces-go-mobile-with-kelowna-based-vericorders-iphone-app-voddio-2012-03-20

Canadian Armed Forces Public Affairs officers have decided to utilize technology crafted by Kelowna-based VeriCorder . Founded by Gary Symons , a journalist with 25 years of experience as a field journalist working in newspapers , radio , and television , VeriCorder will enable the officers to trade in their cumbersome television cameras for iPhones thanks to Voddio , a mobile app developed by the Okanagan startup .  Members of the Defence Public Affairs Learning Centre will be trained to record and edit broadcast-quality items through the Voddio iPhone app . Meanwhile , back at home base , military personnel will be able to track officers in the field with a management system .  " Our government was pleased to support the cutting edge work VeriCorder has been doing here in the Okanagan Valley , " stated Kelowna-Lake Country MP Ron Cannan . " The federal government has invested directly in VeriCorder through our IRAP program , and also through the Canadian Media Fund .  " Now , it 's clear we are seeing this investment is bearing fruit . Our military is deploying world today . We are seeing new , high-paid jobs in the Okanagan Valley , and an impressive new player rising in the world of online video . "  " The system we built , and the skills we teach , are based on a lot of real world experience in newspapers , radio and television , but applied to the online world , " says Gary . " There is one thing we do better than anyone else ; we allow people to produce quality journalism in the field , and publish it fast . And obviously , we are thrilled to have such an endorsement from the professionals in the Canadian military , who have one of the most difficult field reporting jobs anyone could imagine . "  Gary founded VeriCorder in 2008 , but this year decided to step down from his role as CEO . Handing those reigns to Jason Neale , a serial entrepreneur perhaps most famous for the fast-growing OmniGlove , Gary assumed the roles of CTO and president .  The media industry is going through a period of radical change . fragment under the onslaught of new , internet-based competitors . Indeed News Corp recently said that print journalism would be dead in 20 years ! That 's where VeriCorder comes in . We turn an iPhone into a professional quality video camera , with a simple to use ... more  Techvibes NewsDesk  Techvibes is Canada 's leading technology media property.Founded in 2002 , Techvibes covers technology and business news that impacts Canadians . We combine breaking local news with international coverage to deliver a unique balance of insight and information . The Techvibes Newsdesk covers a broad beat and publishes general news stories . If you have a story you would like covered , email ... more