Bourgeois to the rescue as investors take stranglehold on broomball ...
http://www.thewesternstar.com/Sports/2012-03-20/article-2934373/Bourgeois-to-the-rescue-as-investors-take-stranglehold-on-broomball-final/1

bourgeois to the rescue as investors take stranglehold on broomball final  lance ereaut , right , of investors group , attempts to knock the ball away from west side monarchs cory rideout in game two of the best-of- five corner brook molson mens broomball league final at the pepsi centre .  corner ? brook eric bourgeois had a " connor crisp " ? moment on monday night .  investors group goalkeeper bob ? beck was knocked into by a west side ? monarchs forward during the first shift of game 2 of the corner brook molson men 's broomball ? league 's best-of-three final at the pepsi centre . the lower-body injury forced him out of the game and the investors were left looking for answers .  earlier this month , in the ontario ? hockey league , a similar situation arose when the ? erie otters lost starting goalie ramis sadikov on the same type of play . connor crisp , a forward who had n't played all season was asked to be the emergency goalie . he went on to allow star of the game .  it could be argued bourgeois was also the first star for his team , but it certainly was n't any kind of pity vote , as he was successful in backstopping the investors to a 3-2 overtime win and a 2-0 lead in the series .  michael ? hawco was the overtime hero , though he was overshadowed somewhat by the mystery man behind the mask down at the other end . lance ereaut and rick kean also scored for the investors .  geoff byrne and eric ( sticky ) young responded for the monarchs .  for bourgeois -- a five-year veteran of the sport , but first-time goalkeeper -- it could n't have gone much better .  " the boys played really well in front of me , " ? he said . " i ? guess obviously they knew not to let too much through ... i ? probably only faced 10 or 12 shots on net because the boys were blocking lots of shots in front of me . they were making the extra effort on defence knowing said it became clear the monarchs smelled blood as soon as he stepped between the posts .  " the ( monarchs ) are smart players and i ? guess they probably said ' let 's throw everything on net and let 's see what happens , ' " ? said ? bourgeois . " they were throwing balls at me from the corner , trying to get rebounds . one of their goals was a rebound goal like that . "  though bourgeois had experience playing in goal during friendly ball hockey games , he said there were a few things to get used to right away during a broomball game .  " the big net is a bit scary , i looked back and the net is almost over my head , " ? he said . " the ball travels a lot slower too ... you almost react to it too fast if you have room to see it coming from far out . a hockey ball goes twice as fast . "  his emergence may be a blessing in disguise for the investors , a massive defensive meltdown in the second half . they were forced to focus on playing well in their own end monday night and that should carry over to game 3 next week .  " everyone was taking their man and keeping shots to the outside , we just waited for our chances because we 've got enough skill up front and on defence to do that , " ? said bourgeois . " we want to close it out . "  and he may very well be back in the crease as the last line of defence .  " i ? do n't know yet , " ? he laughed . " it looks like i ? could be going for my second win of the year next week . "  lance ereaut , right , of investors group , attempts to knock the ball away from west side monarchs cory rideout in game two of the best-of- five corner brook molson mens broomball league final at the pepsi centre .