Conservative cabinet minister James Moore builds a legacy of ...
http://www.straight.com/article-644606/vancouver/conservative-cabinet-minister-james-moore-builds-legacy-defending-extremism

Moore is n't a stupid man . But he appears to assume that the public , the media , and many of his Conservative supporters are stupid . This may be why he gets away with calling people " far , far left " when sometimes they 're only a couple of shades more progressive than he might be .  The real extremists in this country are Conservative politicians who reject the science on supervised-injection sites , climate change , crime , and , in some cases , even evolution .  I actually do n't believe that Moore is as ideologically objectionable as some of his colleagues . He 's not an opponent of same-sex marriage and he seems to appreciate the arts , even if he ca n't always convince his colleagues to offer sufficient funding .  In this regard , Moore reminds me of B.C. aboriginal relations minister Mary Polak . As chair of the Surrey school board , she argued in favour of a ban on books about same-sex parents even though she was n't a holy roller , unlike most has become his party 's greatest polemicist , which is why he 's increasingly being called upon to smear his opponents . It 's a shameful legacy that he 's creating for himself .  Former Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater once famously said : " Extremism in the defence of liberty is no vice . "  In the case of Moore , perhaps we should change the wording to read : " Red-baiting in the defence of extremism is a vice . And James Moore , you 're guilty as charged . "  Comments  9 Comments  glen p robbins  Farroh  Mar 26 , 2012 at 1:43pm  He is a sad example of the worst running for office . Not standing for what is right , but rather to what they perceive their supportive public wants to hear . They have a majority that they think allows them to be arrogant and divisive . The far far left as he puts it is also Canadian , also worked to make this country great and most important allowed people like Moore to get elected and at 2:15pm  Moore may not be stupid but we should n't assume he 's smart enough to know better . He belongs to and actively supports a reactionary party . From the warped vantage point of that party 's adherents , anyone to the left of Stockwell Day is either a socialist or a fellow-traveller .  DavidH  Mar 26 , 2012 at 2:23pm  Charlie Smith wrote : " Moore is n't a stupid man . "  Ummm ... do you have empirical evidence to support that statement ?  In the absence of such empirical evidence , I think we should all assume that he is - in fact - stupid . Just look at what he does for a living , whom he does it for , and what he actually said after the NDP convention .  Sometimes , a person who acts like a fool , walks like a fool and quacks like a fool is just a fool .  Kent  Mar 26 , 2012 at 8:24pm  Not hard to tell what side of the political spectrum you are on brain and what is best for Canada . Let me give you a hint , it is n't tax and spend like a drunken sailor . We do n't need bigger government run by people who feel they are owed a living and feel that the rich &amp; corporations do n't pay enough . That is getting very old . We need a government that is cautious about spending my tax dollars - because we the tax paying public deserve a fiscallyresponsible government .  bobo  Mar 27 , 2012 at 11:56am  Actually Charlie , the real extremists in this are the left wing tax sucking types who think that everything should be given to them for free without considering the source or the effort to make it possible . People who think that they are entitled to something just for being born . Sorry , there is nothing in this world that does n't require some personal effort and responsibility . Funny how the left keeps saying they are for helping others when what they really mean is they for helping only themselves and those who believe their of " defending extremism " just as you accuse Minister Moore of . And that 's really my point . The left wing extremist are just like the right wing extremist . The true path ( and most of Canada ) lies somewhere in the middle .