Not all of us are wired for math
http://sfbay.ca/2012/03/26/not-all-of-us-are-wired-for-math/

not all of us are wired for math  from now on , whenever a kid who gets math anxiety has to sweat through a math test , she 'll have a real scientific study to back her up .  according to researchers at the stanford university school of medicine , brain function actually differs in people who have math anxiety from those who do n't .  the study used a series of brain scans conducted on second- and third-grade students while the children solved addition and subtraction problems .  what they found was increased activity in regions of the brain associated with fear , which led to decreased activity in other parts involved with problem-solving . students with higher math anxiety naturally tended to score lower than their less-anxious peers .  vinod menon , phd , the stanford professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences who led the research , summarized the findings :  " the same part of the brain that responds to fearful situations , such as seeing a spider or snake , also shows a heightened response in children surprising that despite the scientific community 's 50-plus-year-old awareness of math anxiety , no one has really done much research on it until now .  dr. victor carrion , an expert on the effects of anxiety in children , hope that the findings , published this month in psychological science , will improve the educational system for students with math anxiety :  " the results are a significant step toward our understanding of brain function during math anxiety and will influence development of new academic interventions . "  menon 's lab is now looking for new second- and third-graders for their next study . participants would receive a modest payment for their participation , as well as a month of free math tutoring .  the next question will be , how will kids utilize this information in an attempt to avoid taking math tests ? i only wish this study would have been performed back when i was in high school .