School of social work uses documentary to review...
http://www.therecord.com/news-story/2600282-school-of-social-work-uses-documentary-to-review-its-first-five-years-downtown/

KITCHENER -- Five years in , Wilfrid Laurier University 's faculty of social work is still a relative newcomer to Kitchener 's downtown .  They reached out to the community Monday with the first screening of their 20-minute documentary , On The Merits of Being a Good Neighbour .  The film , produced by seven second-year masters of social work students , engages community agencies and businesses as it explores the school 's original mission and where it is today . Many of these students will be working in agencies in the downtown area .  Those people interviewed are candid about how the campus has integrated .  " This is a snapshot of what we 're doing and what we can do better , " says Ginette Lafreniere , professor of social work and the film 's faculty producer .  Ten years ago , birds were the main tenants of the Duke Street campus across from Kitchener City Hall .  The building , formerly St. Jerome 's High School , was privately owned and targeted to become a " welfare motel was concerned moving in would displace people .  Moving downtown was controversial . How would it change the community ? Would students and faculty be safe ? Would their presence further gentrify the community , potentially challenging some of the local residents they wanted to help ?  From the outset , Fusco said the school should be a good neighbour . And Lafreniere wanted to honour this through the documentary , which she saw as a message of hope .  " We can do some terrific things in this community . We 're honoured to be downtown , " said Lafreniere .  " Revitalization , oppression , marginalization , and working with vulnerable populations . This is what we teach our students , so why would we want to isolate them from the reality ? "  Ian Stumpf of Poverty Makes Us Sick , a small direct-action lobby group in the downtown , attended the screening .  " The film raised some of the questions I had , " he says .  Stumpf , however , was critical that more individual voices from the was used a lot , but each time they used it they meant businesses and agencies . "  Shaman Ishak , one of the student filmmakers , says ethical considerations prevented putting people on camera .  " There are confidentiality issues for community members who may be service users of those organizations that we 're working with . "  The University of Windsor has expressed interest in the film , as well as a national conference by the Canadian Association of Social Work Education to be hosted by Laurier in May .  Lafreniere is aware there is room for improvement , but was please to hear through the documentary 's production that the school has a valued presence within the community .  " This was a catalyst for a renewed sense of partnership between the faculty and the downtown , " she says . " Is there room to do more ? Yes . "