Valu Foods in Summerside closed by the sheriff
http://www.theguardian.pe.ca/News/Local/2012-05-19/article-2983677/Valu-Foods-in-Summerside-closed-by-the-sheriff/1

More than $96,000 in rent owed by Hakour Enterprises Ltd .  The store , operated by Hakour Enterprises Ltd , finally closed its doors late last week with no explanation to its customers or the community other than a notice from the sheriff 's office that now hangs on the door .  That piece of paper -- a notice of distress -- reads that the grocery store and assets contained were seized on May 10 by the sheriff on behalf of C.A. Realty Ltd. for rent owing of $96,288.90 from Nov. 9 , 2010 , to May 2 , 2012 .  " Unless the said rent , with charges for distraining the same is paid in four days from the date hereof , the goods and chattels will be appraised and sold according to law , " the notice goes on to say .  Store manager Wally Haddad did not answer calls made to his cellphone or reply to an email sent to Summerside Valu Foods .  A notice dated May 11 from Canada Post , which operated an outlet at Valu store . It reads that postal services are no longer available at the location , noting that full postal services and items too large for customers ' community mailbox or requiring personal verification or signature are available at Canada Post 's Granville Street location .  " Canada Post will be working closely with your community representatives to reach a mutually agreeable solution that meets the needs of your community , " it says . " We apologize for any inconvenience that this unexpected closure has caused . "  " They just showed up and closed them down , " said Burton about the closure of Valu Foods . " It decreased traffic flow , which is not necessarily a good thing . It creates some sort of a controversy that people assume if they are closing we are also closing . "  It was business as usual on Friday at the pharmacy as fresh fruit , meat , eggs and cheese sat to rot on the nearby shelves of the nearby Valu Foods . Food aisles surrounding the pharmacy are cordoned off , each blocked by empty metal the sheriff .  " It 's somewhat of a seamless sort of business . Appearance is everything but they are really totally two separate businesses , " added Burton . " It 's business as usual . "  Customers can clearly see laundry detergent , canned beans , dried pasta , cheese , milk , bread and yogurt on the closed grocery store 's shelves as they wait to fill their prescriptions .  " We were in the midst of arranging to move anyway , so we 're moving into a larger site next to Dr. ( Harold ) Molyneaux in a couple of weeks , " said Burton . " That was already pre-arranged . We were already moving and expanding because we 're outgrowing our space . This kind of put a fly in the ointment for a couple of weeks and a scramble of what to do at the last minute . It 's only for a couple of weeks . Less traffic into the downtown is an issue for everybody . "  The Medicine Shoppe Pharmacy will be in its newly renovated site What makes this your concer and are you David implying that You are a creditor ? Show proof there 's citizens owed money . Like she said , " WHO CARES why the previous business closed OR the square footage or worth of the Home , unless of course You 're considering buying this real estate . IF your concerned of what your talking about , it can be found on the internet in government of PEI records . SEARCH FOR IT . " YOU CAN ACCESS A INTERNET CONNECTED COMPUTER GO USE IT .  @Shellie .... UMMMMM who care about the previous owner ... well unless you are NOT one of the creditors he left with unpaid bills then I guess you would n't care at all . Unlike you most Islanders do care about Island companies getting stiffed by people who operate a business and run away all the while they are living in nice big fancy house paid for by unpaid bills to island companies . Shellie ... That is who would care ! ! !  This is a difficult time for ValuFoods employees &amp; owner What a shame the fresh fruit , meat , eggs and cheese had to be left to rot in Valu Foods and did n't go to employees ... AND to David ... FYI - google the definition for gossiip &amp; busy bodies . THEN , post the definitions here it will help educate Islanders who read it . WHO CARES why the previous business closed OR the square footage or worth of the Home , unless of course You 're considering buying this real estate . IF your concerned of what your talking about , it can be found on the internet in government of PEI records . Search for it .  Is n't this the second time that Valu Foods was closed by the Sheriff ? Was n't this place closed a few years ago or the owner just walked away and left all the creditors unpaid and then opened another meat shop in Summerside while he lived in nice big house .