Making a difference
http://www.thetelegram.com/Living/2012-05-19/article-2983591/Making-a-difference/1

making a difference  when lori rogers saw the slum-like conditions some st. john 's residents were living in , she felt determined to do something to help .  it was heartbreaking , she said , to see an old wire hanger hooked into a door in place of a knob ; to be asked by an elderly couple whether she could replace their stove -- only one burner worked , one of the seniors told her .  the bathrooms in several apartments were so run down , rogers says , it was difficult to fathom how anyone could feel comfortable in such conditions .  what made the situations that much worse , was that many of the people living in the apartments were on income support and battling mental illnesses .  after seeing too many people living in deplorable apartments , rogers formed right turn investments in 2009 and started purchasing and restoring older homes .  " i was so embarrassed to be buying those properties knowing how poor they looked , " the 44-year-old says .  her goal was them to single parents , people with mental health issues , those leaving shelters , former inmates of her majesty 's penitentiary and others who many landlords would turn their backs on .  rogers bought her first rental property at 21 . she currently rents 19 one- and two-bedroom apartments in nine homes in st. john 's and has formed partnerships within the community to help her make her tenants feel at home .  whether it 's a local carpet factory donating a piece of flooring , a furniture company offering some surplus product or a builder giving away a set of stairs , the partnerships are what set her business apart from others in the real estate industry .  rogers has also partnered with st. thomas anglican church to collect donations of furniture and appliances and other necessities for her tenants . the church is renting a storage unit where the donations are stored until needed .  " the partnerships are where we are able to save money and then put the savings into another property , " she says .  volunteers from the church , pitch in and help clean up the homes once she buys them , she says .  " lori gives them some respect . it 's not people telling them what to do anymore . it 's lori requesting their help . and that 's really good positive reinforcement , " cullen says .  listening to vulnerable people is n't new to rogers . she worked as an activity co-ordinator at st. luke 's homes in st. john 's for over a decade and in a long-term care facility in ontario for five years where she cared for people with alzheimer 's disease and other forms of dementia .  whatever the work , her outlook on life is simple : treat people with respect and get it back in return .  " people are human , and sometimes all you need is to listen to somebody . and i tell my clients i 'm not above you , i 'm right here by you . "  trudy white-morgan has been living in one of rogers ' apartments for about eight years .  rogers has brought says .  " she 's been wonderful to me . she helped me out when i was basically lower than low , " white-morgan says .  the low point in her life was when her husband walked out on her and her young daughter .  " lori and roxanne were there for me emotionally . they gave me an ear when i really needed it . "  rogers lowered the rent when morgan-white became a single parent . morgan-white helped in return by looking after the two other apartments in the building .  morgan-white 's daughter , morgan , is now eight years old .  rogers has been particularly good to her daughter through the years , she says , taking her to movies and to a show at mile one centre .  during a visit to their home , morgan reached for the stuffed reindeer with red and green bells tied to its antlers that rogers gave her for christmas .  " you put him on the table and turn him on and he sings a song and bumps around and around giving the toy a squeeze before placing him back on a shelf .  morgan-white says she 's grateful to rogers for giving her a place to call home -- for the long term .  it 's great to have someone other than her elderly father and brothers to depend on , she says .  " lori has always been kind to me and morgan . and i know , if it comes to the crunch , her and roxanne will be here for me . "  rev. john paul westin , rector of st. thomas church , says rogers is making a difference in many people 's lives . his congregation and other people in the community are quick to donate items for her apartments , he says , as they know they are helping vulnerable people .  " a lot of landlords are n't interested in having people with mental health problems as tenants . lori is providing the housing but she 's also providing support and friendship . almost like a family relationship . "  comments  comments  your name*email*comment*  recent  you are two very caring ladies . however , as already mentioned , this is not just a problem for the mentally ill or social assistance recipients ; it is rampant for the lower income working class . also a lot of oas income people are involved in this dilemma . but the two of you are certainly doing more than your share . god bless you ( and your little dog ) .  lori , you sound like an excellent member of society who cares for people . i wish you the best ! this is not just a problem now for the mental ill and people who are on social assistance , or for only the lower class . there is a general crisis for everyone ! whether poor or middle class , many are suffering ! slumlords are everywhere ! i was recently in a fire because of a slumlord and i was paying a lot in rent . i made this article on thescope.ca http : **70;0;toolong and i made a facebook page with a petition : http : **30;72;toolong ? id=100003884262334