Seeking shelter
http://www.theguardian.pe.ca/News/Local/2012-05-19/article-2983342/Seeking-shelter/1

The people working at Anderson House , a shelter for women fleeing violence , were quite familiar with Grandmother 's House . They have , in the past , referred women to this white building located on Euston Street in Charlottetown next to the former YMCA .  Grandmother 's House met a need , housing women for several months at a time , offering crisis intervention , employment counseling , housing assistance , and addiction counseling .  Women lined up at the door to get in .  Last year , 29 women stayed . Fifty others were turned away , 20 because of substance use and mental health issues and another 30 simply due to lack of room at the shelter that was only able to house six residents a night .  At least five women have stayed at Anderson House in the last month that would normally have been referred to Grandmother 's House , said Danya O'Malley , manager of Anderson House .  On average , 90 women and 60 children stay at Anderson House each year to leave violence who is also the data analyst for Homeless Individuals and Families Information System ( HIFIS ) , opening a new shelter for women to fill the void left by Grandmother 's House closing , " is the most pressing issue . ' '  Sadly , she is not aware of any effort underway to address the need .  The provincial government , Docherty concedes , does n't have the answer .  " We 're in all honesty allowing the community to take the lead on this , ' ' she said .  The community services minister , though , says her department is willing to listen to groups and organizations looking to address homelessness in the province .  Shelters are in short supply in Prince Edward Island .  There is Anderson House .  There is a shelter in West Prince that has been operating since July 2007 for homeless women and female victims of domestic violence . And there is Bedford MacDonald House , a shelter for homeless men , in Charlottetown .  Melissa Cooke , coordinator of the shelter in West Prince on this facility that had about 600 bed nights last year . Federal funding is in place to cover operating costs .  The other two shelters , however , face a constant challenge to sustain sufficient operating funds , which is something Grandmother 's House ultimately was unable to do .  Matusiewicz said the Anderson House board needs to fundraise as much as 20 per cent or $160,000 of its $800,000 operational budget .  At Bedford MacDonald House , running a homeless shelter for men in Charlottetown on a shoestring budget led to desperate measures that included the board knowingly hiring a convicted pedophile , Everett Galllant , to keep watch over the facility .  The board closed the facility in June 2011 after Gallant was charged with sexually assaulting a homeless man who had been staying at the shelter . Gallant was found guilty of the crime and sentenced to serve three years in jail .  A number of churches formed an ad hoc working group to work alongside the Bedford MacDonald board to reopen the shelter in late December .  Now the Salvation of the men 's homeless shelter after earlier determining it could not afford to go ahead with such plans .  " We 're looking at it again , ' ' said Lieut . Ian Scott . " It 's a very strong possibility . ' '  Scott says the Salvation Army has an internal system for funding the shelter as well as commitments in principle from both the province and the City of Charlottetown to partner in the initiative .  Scott says Charlottetown really seems to struggle with the reality of homelessness .  " It 's really an invisible kind of group of people , ' ' he said .  Ridgeway adds she would love to see a shelter opened for youth ages 16 to 19 .  " They 're couch surfing , they 're living with friends , ' ' she said . " They 're in the flop houses and they 're getting into drugs . ' '  Carl Doucette , coordinator of the homeless partnership strategy with the John Howard Society , says federal funding of $850,000 was committed for 2011-2013 to be matched and the projects need to be sustainable for at least five years .  " It 's not a huge amount of money over three years , however it does have some impact into community , ' ' he said . " It is very challenging particularly to keep shelters going on a long-term basis . ' '  The P.E.I. Community Advisory Committee on Homelessness has raised concern with the waiting list for provincial family housing units remaining extensive . The committee is also critical of the province for not developing or implementing a provincial poverty reduction strategy that includes units of family housing .  Matusiewicz echoed the alarm .  " The need for affordable housing for someone to get back on their feet is a huge challenge , ' ' he said .  Comments  Comments  Your name*Email*Comment*  Recent comments  andre ' in cornwall  May 21 , 2012 - 09:48  First , Townie whoever the real name is and it is not troll , is right ; who may well have been in this eolith system that Hon goes on ! So I 'll ask Hon Valerie E. Docherty who backed down from Aylward instead of just saying I should not have yelled and next time I will not touch you with my hand .... How about a solution for a change ! Instead of O I 'm Surprised ........ Valerie Docherty , minister of community services and seniors ... It has not changed in twelve/ fourteen years Child and Family Services Child Protection Services Children in Care Family Ties Foster Care that Hon Valerie E. Docherty could sit and get insight how her staff are there aiding places like these , too be there making money etc ... hence should have an emeriti back up plan ... instead of O I 'm Surprised ..... On the other side of the white house is/was and will be creating more women needing places like Grandmother 's House , home to women with no home , as Donny ran the dark gray house that let girls and boys do as they please as long as they came in at curfew ... Valerie Docherty , minister of community services and seniors , in Child and Family Services have been steering girls/women in the direction of Grandmother 's House , Anderson House as they seem to have the power to let girls/boys do as they wish ... tell parents no and Family Ties tell girls yes ! After being running loose girls/boys as adult continue ... lazy parents and Child and Family Services will always be there thus homeless homes will be too ... I raised eight and had some input with two others , total 4 boys and 6 girls and it was a privilege too have influenced them in the direction they were to take ! One girl however speaking of marriage , in doubt , she was scared of the person she was to hitch . I said do not , we stop speaking . It is as within the counseling for both parities in a family - see the aforementioned and many more in Child and Family Services as it is a job that they bring the personal experience with them to the Job ! Example , the worker I asked for help finding boy and worker broke up home could hit his mother , she proceeded to bend rules , workers helped , police kidnapped etc see C. Denyse Butler Cathy Ada Donald J. Campbell I called Anderson House once after a 4 year old boy was beating the pole sticks out of his 28 year old mother and I had to get him to stop ! I asked Anderson House how they would teach a youngster to stop beating the holly grail out of their mother and she had no answer ! I said its in the money , teaching them not to hit women would cut into the budget ? No Answer yet ! Wow ! The Native Council of P.E.I. , forced to close shop they say because the $80,000 annual operating cost was too prohibitive , they have a empty house in Cornwall for last eight months cutting into the budget , must be ... Anderson House board needs $800,000 operational budget ... I had eight on $17,000 2000 and it would 've been $20,000 maybe in 2012 , a year budget ... wow what a bunch .... money ... money Why not Federal funding is on band wagon , Carl Doucette , coordinator of ... the John Howard Society , says federal funding of $850,000 was committed for 2011-2013 ... face lift Cornwall Civic Center , Cornwall 's fish ladder that wo n't help dit etc ... etc .... Sleepy Hollow sewer problem that was on going afore my arrival in 2002 ... then the sewer of Charlottetown out in waters , and ... and ... federal funding is in place ...  The Native Council of P.E.I. , erroneous decision to without Notice , close Grandmother 's House ... wrong in soooo many ways . This time a set of clear ground rules need to be made &amp; especially that clear rules on Communication are implimented . IMO - Since you are all concerned about and assisting the Homeless - Houseless , organize a " potluck luncheon " An all day meeting with reps of the following organizations to exchange informations and work closer together , so that something like this does n't happen again . IMO- It 's like the right hand does n't know what the left hand is doing RE : Island fourm as I 've mentioned would help ensure something like this does n't happen again . What 's happened should Not be taken lightly . Besides , each Rep. would meet knew people and hopefully make a new friend . A Native Council &amp; Grandmother 's House rep. , Valerie Docherty , minister of community services and seniors , Phil Matusiewicz , exec. director of P.E.I. Family Violence Prevention Services , Melissa Cooke W.Prince Shelter coordinator , a City police rep. , Salvtion Army 's Lieut . Ian Scott , other Church 's represenatives , Carl Doucette coordinator of the John Howard Society 's coordinator of the homeless partnership strategy with the John Howard Society , P.E.I. Community Advisory Committee on Homelessness .  " At Bedford MacDonald House , running a homeless shelter for men in Charlottetown on a shoestring budget led to desperate measures that included the board knowingly hiring a convicted pedophile , Everett Galllant , to keep watch over the facility " That no stories emerged about the Board being held accountable is very disturbing , in that incidence . As for the women 's shelter closing ensure there are no surprises , and perhaps ensure that things are running as they should . This is a no brainer , no city should be without shelters for men/women . If we 're judged on how we take care of our most vulnerable , I 'd say we 're not doing a very good job .  Townie , are you as stupid as your post suggests or are you just a useless troll making useless comments . If you had read the story ( if you can read ) you would have seen the Native Council closed the shelter , but did not inform government nor ask for help to keep it open . Even the P.E.I. Family Violence Prevention Services did not know it was closing . Next time ask your kids to read the stories to you .