Canada approves historic life-saving stem-cell drug for children
http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/325140

Canada approves historic life-saving stem-cell drug for children  Canada has become the first country to greenlight the world 's first approved drug that has stem cells as its active ingredient , offering hope to children suffering from an extremely painful disease that kills up to 80 percent of children affected .  " I am very proud of the leadership role Canada has taken in advancing stem cell therapy and particularly gratified that this historic decision benefits children who would otherwise have little hope , " said Andrew Daly , M.D. , Clinical Associate Professor , Department of Medicine and Oncology at the University of Calgary , Canada , according to a press release .  As the National Institutes of Health explains , the immune system , as the body 's tool to fight infection and disease , works by seeing harmful cells as " foreign " and attacking them .  When children receive a donor 's stem cells ( the " graft " ) , their job is to recreate the donor 's immune system in the child 's body ( the " , graft versus host disease ( GvHD ) , the leading cause of transplant related deaths , is the term used when immune cells contained within transplanted bone marrow see the recipient 's organs as foreign and attack them , causing potentially severe damage to the skin , liver and digestive tract .  ? stomach cramps ( especially before and during bowel movements and after eating )  ? persistent nausea  How is GVHD treated ?  Doctors try using steroids to stop the attack , but they only have a success rate of 30-50 percent , which is why many children can die within just weeks of diagnosis , the press release states .  In Canada , Prochymal is now authorized for the management of acute GvHD in children who fail to respond to steroids .  Prochymal , developed by Osiris Therapeutics , is an intravenous formulation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) , which are derived from the bone marrow of healthy adult donors between the ages of 18 and 30 years .  The MSCs are selected from the bone marrow and grown can be produced from a single donor .  Because these are adult stem cells , they do not raise the ethical concerns of embryonic stem cells , whose creation usually involves the destruction of human embryos , Reuters adds .  As the New York Times notes , stem cells are already used in medicine . Bone marrow or stem cell transplants are used to treat various cancers and genetic diseases . But those transplants are medical procedures , not products sold by a drug company .  " As a result of Health Canada 's comprehensive review , physicians now have an off-the-shelf stem cell therapy in their arsenal to fight GvHD . Much like the introduction of antibiotics in the late 1920 's , with stem cells we have now officially taken the first step into this new paradigm of medicine , " Daly said , Principal Investigator in the clinical program for Prochymal .  " Today is not only a great day for Osiris , but for everyone involved in the responsible development of stem cell therapies , " said C. Randal Mills , Ph.D. , importantly , today is a great day for children and their families who bravely face this horrific disease . While today marks the first approval of a stem cell drug , now that the door has been opened , it will surely not be the last . "  Mills said Thursday that the Food and Drug Administration indicated that it would require more data before approval , prompting Osiris to seek approval in Canada first , according to the Times . He said the company would apply to the F.D.A. later this year .