London 2012: Visuals set apart duet and team events for ...
http://www.thestar.com/sports/olympics/2012/06/15/london_2012_visuals_set_apart_duet_and_team_events_for_synchronized_swimmer_elise_marcotte.html

" At the ( 2011 Guadalajara ) Pan American Games village we were almost the only girls not wearing makeup . "  Far more of a schlep than the doll she portrays in competition , Marcotte puts up with the 90-minute , makeovers for the sake of their synchronizing effect .  " The goal is ( for the team ) really to look the same from far , " she says .  " The same eyes , putting the hair at the same height , almost at the same colour . "  Marcotte will perform at the London Games in both the team ( eight women ) and duet competitions for Canada .  And the key difference between the two disciplines , she says , really comes down to the visual resolutions they demand of spectators .  In camera terms , the team competitions are viewed in wide angle while the duets are pictured with a zoomed in focus .  So while the duet routines are less grand than the team versions , they must be far more harmonized . tiny stuff you do n't see because it 's kind of a big picture , " says Marcotte , 23 .  " And in the duet , every finger , every smile needs to look the same . We almost have to breathe at the same time when we go under . You see everything . "  With more and faster movements required on top of the greater synchronization , the duet is the harder of the two disciplines , Marcotte says .  " The team is also very hard . You ask the girls in the team they 'll say for sure we 're dying at the end , " she says .  " But dying for dying , the duet is harder . "  Marcotte -- " a really energetic kid " -- grew up in a sports mad household and was involved in one kind of lesson or other virtually every weeknight .  Almost from the time she was out of diapers , however , it was already becoming clear that the pool would be her place to shine .  " four years old but I was already too good for my age , " Marcotte says .  " So they offered my parents to put me either in speed swimming , synchronized swimming or diving . "  Maybe because she was developing her lifelong passion for music , Marcotte gravitated to the synchro option , which best combined her two favourite things .  She also enjoyed the team dynamics that synchronized swimming imposes on participants , forging in its countless hours of persnickety training a true swimming sisterhood .  " It 's a big family , yes , we 're like sisters , " Marcotte says .  And like sisters , the Canadian team finds strength and comfort in the individual attributes each member brings to the squad .  " We need to find the strengths and the weaknesses of everyone and we really build on that , " she says .  " I 'm one of the ones who talks a lot and there a few that talk a little bit less so we need that balance to make a good team . of the things Marcotte does is in that role share her 2008 Beijing Olympics experience with her teammates , all but two of whom will be participating in their first Games .  " We 're making sure going toward London 2012 that things are going well and everything is under control , " Marcotte says .  " In an individual sport , when it 's your first time you do n't have someone helping you getting to it , telling you how you 're going to feel . "