Durham police officer busted in drug sweep
http://www.durhamregion.com/news-story/3505713-durham-police-officer-busted-in-drug-sweep/

durham police officer busted in drug sweep  seven durham residents among 30 arrested  police car  durham -- a durham police officer is among 30 people charged after an investigation into street-level drug trafficking in the gta .  the female officer , a veteran of 14 years with durham police , was charged with conspiracy , trafficking and other offences following a raid on her oshawa home tuesday night . six other durham region residents were arrested during the months-long investigation , dubbed project lodestar .  the investigation , launched in march by durham 's gun and gang unit , targeted cocaine trafficking and other street-level drug dealing , police said . over the past two weeks durham cops have executed 30 search warrants throughout the gta .  the raids , carried out with the assistance of opp and police in toronto , york and peel , have so far resulted in the seizure of cocaine , marijuana , oxycontin and steroids valued at more than $300,000 . police also seized five guns , six vehicles and more than $800,000 in cash oshawa tuesday night was tara kramp , 38 , a constable with durham police since 1998 . she is charged with trafficking , conspiracy to traffic , attempt to obstruct justice , possession of stolen property , fraud , and breach of trust . she was also charged with four counts of unsafe storage of a firearm after cops recovered four guns that were properly registered but not securely stored , police said .  const . kramp has been suspended from duty with pay . she is assigned to the centralized alternative response unit in whitby , taking reports on " lower priority calls " , sergeant nancy van rooy said .  const . kramp is an enthusiast of fitness competitions who was listed as a judge of an event in 2006 . her biography on the competition website lists her as a " beautiful but deadly " personal trainer and police officer who " lives her life on the edge as a homicide and narcotics officer . "  the officer has not been assigned to either the drug or homicide units , but may have played a  also facing drug charges as a result of the investigation are jeremy russell , 31 , of clarington ; gailanne duvale , 40 , of clarington ; roderick ayre , 25 , of oshawa ; stephen frost , 35 , of whitby , alicia gray , 40 , of oshawa , and kevin hatch , 26 , of oshawa.