Voices from Canada's past being silenced
http://www.thestar.com/news/canada/2012/06/15/voices_from_canadas_past_being_silenced.html

the news this week that riel house will be among 27 parks canada national historic sites moving to " self-guided " tours next year was mourned by both staff and history buffs as a loss for the country .  an employee of woodside national historic park stands ioutside the kitchener home where former prime minister mackenzie king grew up . woodside will be among 27 national historic sites moving to " self-guided " tours next year .  by:laura stonestaff reporter , published on fri jun 15 2012  the students in long dresses and vests will no longer be there .  there will be no one -- no humans , at least -- to explain how the river lot system was used to carry cabbage or potatoes , or to voice the significance of the m ? t is leader for the manitoba people .  follow-up questions about the black cross above the door ( the house is presented as being in mourning ) will go unanswered .  instead , visitors will learn the history by reading it on a plaque or listening on a smartphone app .  the news this week that the 132-yetar-old riel house in st. vital -- where louis riel 's mother lived and where his body lay in state for two days in 1885 -- will be among 27 parks canada national historic sites moving to " self-guided " tours next year was mourned by both staff and history buffs as a loss for the country .  " people are losing touch with their own history and their own heritage , " said michel lagace , president of st. boniface historical society which operates riel house on a $56,000 budget . the society 's contract with parks canada will not be renewed , meaning the director and four students hired during the may to september season will not be replaced .  " there will be nobody to explain what the history of this place is and what it 's meaning is and what its importance is , " he said .  the move opens a debate about the role of heritage places , as many worry canada 's history will become eroded because there " it 's sad news because this is what canadian identify rests upon , " said pierre b ? langer , a university of ottawa communications and canadian studies professor .  " it 's us finding out about our past , working toward developing a canadian identity , especially now with an influx of new canadians . "  the sites include laurier house in ottawa , which commemorates prime ministers sir wilfrid laurier and william lyon mackenzie king ; and woodside , mackenzie king 's boyhood home , which has been closed since september due to a toxic substance discovered in the victorian-era house and expected to re-open this summer .  parks canada says the sites will move to self-guided tours and reduced hours as part of budget cost-cutting measures to reduce spending by $29.2 million over the next three years .  in total , some 600 positions will be eliminated , although not from the 167 historic sites alone . the agency is also merging services and cutting hours .  but , parks canada officials say guided tours are being eliminated primarily at sites with the only -- or even the best -- option for winning back visitors .  " we know that many people visit sites and they learn in a variety of different ways , " said bill fisher , vice-president of operations for western and northern operations for parks canada . he said there will likely be a security or administrative employee on site , and special events will not be precluded .  " for some people , maybe there 's other ways that we can draw visitors in to still learn about the site . "  the move to end tours at some sites was applauded by groups such as the canadian taxpayers federation .  " unless you have the interest from the public , it 's hard to justify these things , " said federal director gregory thomas . " nobody can make a case for staffing this with federal government employees with full benefits . it 's insane . nobody goes there . "  figures provided by parks canada show that while numbers of visitors have waned in recent years at some of the sites banff park museum , which is becoming self-guided , attendance grew by 32 per cent to 33 , 394 visitors between 2009-10 and 2010-11 .  besides , many say popularity is beside the point .  " it 's a public service and by definition public service is not assessed or appraised strictly on numbers , " said belanger .  the union representing parks canada employees also questions how artifacts such as those found in laurier house , which includes william lyon mackenzie king 's crystal ball , will be protected and showcased to their full potential .  " it really takes away from the experience when you do n't have the ability to touch stuff , ask questions , explore , " said eddie kennedy , national executive vice-president of the union of national employees .  kennedy said employees were recently issued " duty of loyalty " letters that said they were n't allowed to criticize parks canada or the canadian government about the cuts .  for winnipeg union representative roxanne hooker , the move to end what she calls " interpretation " of historic " just imagine the difference between reading the text on a panel and having someone explain the significance of what 's in that text , " she said .