Top 5 Toronto condos: Pug Awards 2012
http://news.nationalpost.com/homes/condos/pug-awards-2012-top-5-toronto-condos

top 5 toronto condos : pug awards 2012  midtown toronto 's 83 redpath condominium took top spot for best residential building at the 2012 pug awards -- where torontonians vote for the city 's best architecture .  the june 13 awards ceremony was held , fittingly , at the tiff bell lightbox , the 2011 pug winner for best commercial/institutional building .  if you 're looking for noteworthy chic digs , in this competitive condo market , here are the top five pug picks :  1 . 83 redpath , midtown digs ( photo at top )  2 . james cooper mansion , downtown , where the historic james cooper house serves as an amenities centre to the residential tower  3 . quay west at tip top , waterfront development  4 . one bedford at bloor , luxury living in the annex  5 . one park west , boutique condominiums in regent park  the eighth annual pug awards invited torontonians to cast their votes for the best and worst new buildings from a record field of 44 nominees at pugawards.com , sparking discussion among voters and social shares . " the pugs are creating a platform with which the public can compare buildings side by side and be extremely discriminating , " says anna simone , pug co-founder . " we 're becoming more discerning about our buildings and the votes are showing it . we 're not accepting mediocrity . "  the 2012 pug awards nominees and voting patterns show a persistence of trends from years past . gary berman , co-founder , says , " residential entries continue to be disappointing , as evidenced by the vast majority of nominees receiving negative vote counts , as in prior years . projects with a heritage component continue to outperform . " by contrast , commercial and institutional contenders remain in good standing with voters , earning more yeas than nays .  to be eligible for a pug award nomination , developments must have been completed in 2011 , be located within the city of toronto and consist of an area of 50,000 square feet or greater or be considered noteworthy by the pug awards advisory board @