Brindi the dog turned over to HRM
http://thechronicleherald.ca/metro/111098-brindi-the-dog-turned-over-to-hrm

brindi the dog turned over to hrm  francesca rogier with brindi in front of rogier 's home in july 2010 . a judge turned ownership of the dog over to the halifax regional municipality and fined rogier , brindi 's former owner , $600 . ( tim krochak / staff / file )  updated 6:11 p.m . tuesday  the courtroom saga of brindi the dog may soon be over .  a provincial court judge tuesday fined owner francesca rogier $600 and ordered ownership of the dog transferred to the halifax regional municipality in the latest chapter of a protracted battle over the dog 's fate .  however , judge flora buchan stopped short of ordering the dog destroyed .  buchan said brindi should be treated like any other dog by the municipality and should be trained and adopted out if possible .  however , the possibility exists that the animal could be euthanized , but that will only happen if an assessment shows her behaviour ca n't be changed and she is n't adopted .  brindi was seized from .  rogier was found guilty earlier this spring of allowing a dog to run at large , failing to comply with an order to muzzle brindi and owning a dog that attacks an animal .  it was the second time nine-year-old brindi had been seized by animal control . she was previously picked up in 2008 after attacking another dog and was ordered euthanized .  however , rogier successfully appealed and the dog was ordered to be returned to her with conditions that included keeping the dog muzzled in public , building a fence in her backyard and having the dog trained .  the second incident happened only two months after rogier got the dog back .  while there was no evidence brindi is beyond redemption , " sadly " that is not the case with her owner , buchan said .  " i would describe ms. rogier as an irresponsible pet owner who has known since she ( adopted ) brindi that she has control issues , " the judge said , while also calling her " unrepentant . "  in ordering brindi dog " can not safely be returned to ms. rogier . "  rogier did not appear in court . instead , she called dog trainer susan jordan shortly before her sentencing was due to start and asked her to appear on her behalf .  jordan , who has worked with brindi and rogier , said she thinks rogier did n't show because she expected the emotions of the day to be too much for her .  " i think ... it was going to take more of a toll than she was prepared ( to handle ) , " jordan said . " to come out after that and try to be coherent and deal with the repercussions ... would be a little more than she could handle . "  she said she was pleased the court did n't opt to immediately euthanize brindi .  " i 've trained and worked with the dog , " jordan said . " this dog certainly has behavioural concerns . ( it ) needs modification training , but the dog is trainable . "  she said she has  jordan said she last assessed brindi two weeks ago and in all aspects , except territorial concerns , " this is a highly adoptable dog . "  an effort to contact rogier through jordan was unsuccessful .  while the the city sought an order to have brindi destroyed , katherine salsman , the municipality 's lawyer , said the judge 's decision " is the best of both worlds . "  " it allows us to evaluate and ensure ( if adoption ) is the right decision to be made , ... but it still gives us the option to put the dog down if public safety reasons do require it . "  the order does n't take effect until aug. 21 to allow time for an appeal .