Nova Scotia workers question Finley on EI changes
http://thechronicleherald.ca/business/111160-nova-scotia-workers-question-finley-on-ei-changes

nova scotia workers question finley on ei changes  by remo zaccagna business reporterpublished june 26 , 2012 - 7:19pm  average :  your rating : noneaverage : 3.7 ( 19 votes )  diane finley , minister of human resources and skills development , looks over apples on the packing line at mason apples in three mile plains , hants county on tuesday . the minister spoke to workers about changes to employment insurance . ( peter parsons / staff )  for the last four years , mary leopold has known she 's going to get a one- or two-month layoff every summer from her job at the j.w. mason &amp; sons ltd. sorting and packing plant .  from the time apple harvest season begins in late august to when the last box is packed in may , june or july -- depending on how good the crop was -- leopold and the rest of her co-workers at the windsor company have steady work .  that cycle is repeated every year , but leopold , 48 , is worried . she wonders for her when harvest time comes around .  under the proposed changes , frequent claimants of ei , such as seasonal workers , will have to take any work that is a similar occupation with their old job and pays at least 80 per cent of their previous earnings . after six weeks on ei , claimants will have to take any job they are able to do at 70 per cent of their previous pay .  that concerns leopold " because somebody else is going to come back in to take my position , would n't you think ? "  she raised those concerns with human resources and skills development minister diane finley , who visited the j.w. mason plant tuesday to explain the proposed changes to workers .  leopold said she is also worried the changes will mean she has to travel outside of the area to work during the two-month layoff .  " i do n't feel that i want to go to coldbrook or any place else to work , when this is close to home . when you 're only making 're losing that , " she said .  but finley said the proposed changes are " common sense " and will be dictated by individual circumstances and local labour market conditions .  " and i stress locally , because there are some places where you ca n't drive an hour . and i know in rural areas , because i live in one , there is n't public transport , " finley told reporters .  " so we 've got to take all those things into mind , but we 're certainly not going to force someone to take a minimum wage job an hour away and expect them to pay for child care for two at the same time . "  the changes to ei will reform the system and remove barriers that are currently preventing people from finding work and employers from filling those positions , the minister said .  " there is an obligation within the employment insurance act for anyone who is collecting ei to be actively looking for work and to accept an appropriate job if it 's available , " clarifying what that means because we do have a lot of employers who are looking for people to fill jobs , when we already have people on ei who could fill those jobs . "  finley 's visit to the province included meetings with groups that represent seasonal workers from the forestry , fishing , construction and shipbuilding sectors .  most of the changes , which have not been fully defined yet , will take place next year . the minister told a reporter that " for the most part , the proposed program will function very well , i think . "  but there will be differences in the final version and finley said she is consulting with employers and employees " so as we design the final program , we 'll be doing it on an informed basis . "  peter harrison , president of j.w. mason , said he had positive discussions with finley .  " i 'm confident that the government is willing to work with us in whatever capacity that we need to make the things go forward , " he the company employs 130 seasonal workers , 30 of whom are temporary foreign workers who come on during the harvest season .  he said he 's not worried that the changes will mean he ca n't bring on those foreign workers . he also said workers like leopold should n't worry about losing employment once harvest season rolls around .  " i do n't see that being any different than any other year , " harrison said . " it 's a short layoff and the minister has reassured me that you can keep your regular employees , you 're just looking at a short turnaround time . "