Could Mackenzie Financial be sold off?
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/streetwise/could-mackenzie-financial-be-sold-off/article4371375/

Entry archive :  After a little over a decade at IGM Financial Inc. , could it be time for the parent company of Investors Group to part ways with Mackenzie Financial Corp. ? ( J.P . Moczulski/Reuters/J.P . Moczulski/Reuters )  After a little over a decade at IGM Financial Inc. , could it be time for the parent company of Investors Group to part ways with Mackenzie Financial Corp. ? ( J.P . Moczulski/Reuters/J.P . Moczulski/Reuters )  After a little over a decade at IGM Financial Inc. , could it be time for the parent company of Investors Group to part ways with Mackenzie Financial Corp. ?  That 's what GMP financial services analyst Stephen Boland concluded in a recent report after outlining Mackenzie 's slow revenue growth and less-than-stellar fund performance , coupled with the growing competition from banks . In the end , his report said that within the next few years there may be an opportunity to " crystallize the value of Mackenzie . " Or , in plain terms , sell it .  Soros Fund Management Chairman George University in Budapest , November 3 , 2011 . Bernadett Szabo/Reuters  finance  " While many accretive options are available a potential sale may be worthwhile , " the report said . " We believe that the lack of managers that market to independent advisors would create a premium valuation for Mackenzie and significant upside for IGM . "  That 's got to be tough news for Investors Group Inc. , which purchased Mackenzie in 2001 after an intense bidding war . Towards the end of 2000 CI Fund Management Inc. launched an unsolicited $3.9-billion takeover bid for Mackenzie . This initial offer was followed by a reported three others ( including one from AIC Ltd. , now part of Manulife Financial ) before the bid from Investors Group was finally accepted by the board on in January of 2001 .  The result of that union was one of the country 's biggest retail wealth management firms--with more than $85-billion in assets under administration , it was more than twice the size of other competitors . The deal was then valued at $4.1-billion .  But while the had been a good get for Investors Group , the years following the financial crisis have been tough on the company--it has struggled to regain pre-meltdown profitability . " There is considerable pressure on independent asset managers in terms of competition and margin compression , " the report notes .  In addition to this analysis , the report looks at potential bidders for the company who may be interested in entering or expanding in Canada , with suggestions primarily leaning towards the big banks and , to a lesser extent , life insurance companies .  It is estimated that a sale today could fetch somewhere between $5-billion and $7-billion from another large asset manager at market . It 's not a show-stopping return , but neither is the firm going to lose money it seems .  The billions from the sale could be used to prop up parent company Power Financial 's subsidiary Pargesa or pay a one-time $20 dividend to shareholders . Alternatively , the report suggests using the capital to privatize Investors Group or fund further global expansion .  Restrictions  All rights reserved . framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters . Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' Thomson Reuters ' and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies .