Considering cosmetic surgery? Do your homework first
http://www.yorkregion.com/community-story/1446037-considering-cosmetic-surgery-do-your-homework-first/

Considering cosmetic surgery ? Do your homework first  Many are familiar with the tragic story of a young Toronto mother who died in 2007 from complications after having liposuction performed at a private cosmetic clinic . The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario censured the doctor involved for professional misconduct and revoked her license for two years .  Thankfully such serious incidents are rare . But with an increasing social acceptance of cosmetic enhancement and more options for where and how you can " have work done , " consumers need to arm themselves with the information they need to make a good decision about what 's right for them .  Here are some things you can do to keep yourself safe and ensure the results of your cosmetic surgery experience measure up to your hopes and expectations .  Do your homework  With more choice than ever , it 's up to consumers to do their due diligence and research the cosmetic procedures they are considering . The good news is , the Internet has made it easier to quickly access bad news ? Not all that information is reliable .  Dr. Will Andrade has been chief of plastic surgery at Southlake Regional Health Centre in Newmarket for more than five years ( a term that ends July 2012 ) and also has his own private York Region practice . He sees value in the Internet , so long as consumers use it with a critical eye .  " As with anything you search on online , you have to know who wrote that article , what 's their background , " Dr. Andrade says . " I see people who have been on websites from other countries or sites created by someone who is not an expert and the information they have is not high quality . "  Confirm that what you read online is backed by evidence and expertise . Focusing on credible websites such as the Canadian Society of Plastic Surgeons at plasticsurgery.ca can help .  Select the right surgeon  First , find out if the surgeon is qualified . The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada certifies physicians and surgeons in a doctor 's license status and specialty through the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario ( cpso.on.ca ) .  Second , ensure the surgeon specializes in the procedure you want . The right plastic surgeon for an eyelid surgery might be an ophthalmologist or for rhinoplasty , an ear , nose and throat specialist . What 's critical is to select a surgeon with the necessary surgical training and experience in the procedure .  Finally , do n't underestimate the fit between doctor and patient . Once the question of credentials is answered , feeling comfortable enough with your surgeon to ask all your questions and having your concerns addressed in a respectful and collaborative manner is the next most important way to ensure you receive the best possible care .  Set realistic expectations  No matter what cosmetic procedures we have , most of us will never look like Pamela Anderson . Nor do we want to , according to Dr. Andrade , who says his patients are often simply looking to get back to the appearance they had before factors such as childbirth and age have many Baywatch patients , " says Dr. Andrade . " I think there is a misconception that people seeking cosmetic surgery have major self-esteem or body image issues . Obviously that exists , but most of my patients have very realistic goals . They are not looking for perfection , they want better body proportions or symmetry . "  Good candidates for plastic surgery are realistic about the results they can expect and set goals that are both achievable and safe .  Be aware of the risks  With any invasive procedure comes risk . Issues such as bleeding , infection or rare anesthesia-related complications can arise , so it 's important to understand what could happen and how your surgeon would handle issues . Ask your surgeon to outline the specific risks and rate of complications associated with your procedure . Other health issues can impact your ability to successfully undergo cosmetic surgery so be prepared to provide your surgeon with a complete and up-to-date medical history to better assess any potential risks .  Consider true costs of " bargain " surgery  Since most cosmetic expensive when you add up the surgeon and anesthesiologist fees , clinic or hospital fees , taxes , garments or creams , not to mention time off work .  If you are considering having surgery abroad to save money -- also known as cosmetic surgery tourism -- be aware that sometimes what seems the least expensive option can turn out to be the most costly , if you experience complications or are not happy with the results .  Quality of care provided pre- and post-surgery in other nations can be compromised and consumers put at risk if they have no way of confirming their surgeon 's credentials or end up being operated on in sub-par or unaccredited facilities .  Do n't rush into it  Great plastic surgeons possess not only a high level of skill and expertise , but also a commitment to the comfort level of the patient . A surgeon should take enough time to address all of your questions and concerns , review your past medical history , discuss your expectations and go over the risks and benefits with you .  Any surgery your body is well worth careful consideration . Dr. Andrade says people often seek to have cosmetic surgery simply because it makes them feel better .  " For most patients , cosmetic surgeries have a real psychological benefit , " he says .  Proactively seeking information and answers , setting realistic expectations and not making snap decisions during the process will go a long way to empowering you as a cosmetic surgery consumer and ensuring that , in the end , you feel as great as you look .