States drawing UBE Scheme backward - Modibbo
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2011/10/states-drawing-ube-scheme-backward-modibbo/

states drawing ube scheme backward -- modibbo  by emmanuel edukugho implementation of the universal basic education ( ube ) programme is being threatened by states that are not accessing their matching grant .  the executive secretary , universal basic education commission ( ubec ) , dr. ahmed modibbo mohammed has told the second quarterly meeting of management with executive chairmen of state universal basic education boards ( subebs ) in 2011 in makurdi , benue state , that states which do not access their matching grants are drawing ube programme implementation backward .  he disclosed that ubec has received n184,071 billion as matching grants since 2005 and disbursed n113,919 billion to states and fct representing 76.93 per cent access .  reiterating that unaccessed funds remained n34,152 billion as at 6th july 2011 , he stressed that distortions in basic education delivery were caused by states that do not access their matching grants .  dr. ahmed modibbo ... states not accessing matching grants  according to dr.modibbo , the federal government statutory allocation of ube matching grant to states and fct for 2011 per cent ) have been received and the counterpart funds of the states and the fct stand at n436,263,653.35 for 1st and 2nd quarters of 2011 .  as regards the 13th financial monitoring of the 36 states and the fct in compliance with section 9 ( g ) of the ube act of 2004 , he said the objectives of this exercise were to ensure judicious utilisation of funds , determine compliance with the approved action plans and provide the basis for the disbursement of intervention fund .  the ubec executive secretary expressed concern over cases of missing payment vouchers , payment of mobilisation fee above 15 per cent , servicing of bank loans with ube-intervention funds , non-deduction of taxes , non-remittance or irregular remittance and non-implementation of e-payment , diversion of funds , poor payment documentation and high level of utilised funds among others .  in a press release issued by david apeh , ppro ubec , it was stated that the acting chairman , benue state subeb , dr. david tsevende , in his welcome address at the meeting , said the universal basic education since its inception in 1999 , the state has provided " unfettered access to free basic education to over two million children of school age who hitherto were unable to acquire basic education on account of either poor economic background , disability or ethno-religious stereotype . "  the universal basic education act ( 2004 ) provides for compulsory , free universal basic education for all children of primary and junior secondary school age in nigeria . it also stipulates penalties for parents who fail to comply with its provisions .  the ube programme was introduced by the federal government to " remove distortions and inconsistencies in basic education delivery and reinforce the implementation of the national policy on education as well as to provide greater access to , and ensure quality of basic education throughout nigeria . "  the ube act 2004 stipulates that : the federal government 's intervention shall only be an assistance to the states and local governments for the purposes of uniform and qualitative basic education throughout nigeria . the act covers :  ( i ) early childhood care development and education ( education  ( iii ) three years of junior secondary education .  there will be compulsory , uninterrupted nine years of primary and junior secondary school education , provision of mid-day meals to enhance children 's access , retention and completion of the school cycle .  emphasis on curriculum diversification and relevance to effectively and adequately cover individual and community needs and aspirations .