Ekweremadu denies sponsoring bill to legalise prostitution
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2011/10/ekweremadu-denies-sponsoring-legalisation-of-prostitution/

ekweremadu denies sponsoring bill to legalise prostitution  ikeja -- deputy senate president , ike ekweremadu on sunday denied sponsoring a bill in the senate to legalise prostitution in the country .  ekweremadu told journalists at the murtala muhammed airport , lagos , that the report attributed to him was an attempt by some mischievous people to distract the national assembly from its statutory functions .  " i think this is total mischief by some mischievous people ; you know there is no bill before the senate , there is none before the entire national assembly and nobody is talking about legalising prostitution .  " i do n't know where they got that from but like i said , that this is the beauty of democracy . so , people are entitled to say whatever they want to say , otherwise you will just get distracted , ' ' he said .  on the planned removal of fuel subsidy , the deputy senate president called for the sensitisation of nigerians about the proposal , saying that some cabals were holding the country hostage matter to handle ; there is absolute need for the refineries to be up and running . so , we really need to fix our refineries before the subsidy is removed .  " the federal government need to publish the names of all those who are infringing .... because it is just a handful of people who are milking us dry and we can not continue in that manner , " he said .  ekweremaduadded that it was necessary to publish the names of those who were holding the country to ransom on oil , just like the federal government did during the restructuring of banks .  meanwhile , some clerics in lagos on sunday said nigeria has more pressing needs than wasting energy on whether to legalise prostitution or not .  monsignor gabriel osu , director of communications , catholic archdiocese of lagos , said legalising prostitution was not nigeria 's priority for now .  " prostitution is not our problem for now , our problem is bad education , bad morals , bad human management , that has even led so many people into osuurged nigeria 's lawmakers to face the reality and give nigerians good governance , good education and good moral upbringing to minimise prostitution .  nan reports that the deputy senate president , mr ike ekweremadu , has , however , explained that he did not suggest legalising prostitution during a debate on human trafficking in the senate on oct. 5 .  . " prostitution is not even fashionable , our custom and tradition does not encourage it , but a product of systemic failure in the society .  " prostitution is not something that should be glamorised , scripturally , it is condemnable and we say no to it , " osu said .  pastor tunde adebayo of the cherubim and seraphim church , told nan that there were more important issues for the senate to attend to than legalising prostitution , considering the level of moral degradation in the country currently .  " we live in a country where morals have really gone to the winds ; it is not in the best interest of this country for prostitution to be legalised .  " ; what should be concerning us right is how to change the orientation of our youths , to the best .  " are you now saying if we legalise prostitution , we are going to legalise abortion ? because , both of them work hand in hand ! what do we stand to gain in idle girls and women selling their bodies at every nooks and crannies , " he added .  the cleric said that god abhor prostitution , adding that the legislators should concern themselves with important issues that will be beneficial to the country . ( nan )