First Bank Expands, Acquires Congolese Bank
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/first-bank-expands-acquires-congolese-bank/100459/

first bank expands , acquires congolese bank  first bank of nigeria plc said thursday that it had acquired banque international de credit ( bic ) - one of the leading banks in the democratic republic of congo ( drc ) .  the bank also disclosed that the acquisition , which had been approved by the central bank of nigeria ( cbn ) , was in line with its strategy , which includes international expansion aimed at increasing its footprint across africa .  a statement from the bank explained that the bank 's expansion plans were expected to deliver benefits such as greater earnings diversification and increased shareholder value through higher returns on equity .  it also stressed that by establishing presence in carefully selected african countries , the bank expected to improve its ability to effectively serve an increasingly international profile of corporate and institutional customers .  commenting on the transaction , first bank 's group managing director and chief executive officer , mr. bisi onasanya said : " we are excited to welcome bic into the first bank family and are particular transaction . this acquisition is indicative of our belief in the potential of the drc even as we have been attracted by the highly profitable and excellently run franchise of bic .  " we look forward to strengthening ties with the drc and other sub saharan african countries as we continue to extend the first bank footprint across the continent . although we are keen to increase our profile across sub saharan africa , we will continue to be guided by the overall objective of achieving excellent returns on investment for our millions of shareholders . we will continue to deploy capital efficiently and profitably , remaining a leader in every market we choose to operate . "  on his part , the chief executive officer , bic , louis-odilon alaguillaume , was also quoted to have said : " this is an important transaction for bic and we look forward to continuing to grow bic with the support of first bank as our parent company . "  meanwhile , the unaudited group results of first bank for the nine months ended 30 september 2011 , released cent to n2.9 trillion in the period under review , compared with the n2.4 trillion attained in september 2010 .  the bank 's gross earnings also increased to n211.2 billion as at september , reflecting an increase by 19 per cent over the n177.1 billion it stood as at september last year . the results revealed that first bank 's profit before also improved to n49 billion , up 20 per cent , as against the prior year value of n40.7 billion , just as its profit after tax grew by 32 per cent to n42.2 billion , compared with the n32.6 billion it was as at september 2010 .  while its customer deposits also increased significantly to n2 trillion as at september this year , from n1.6 trillion last year , its net loans and advances also rose ton1.3 trillion , from n1.1trillion as at september 2010 .  on the financial results , onasanya said : " in conditions which presented both opportunities and challenges , first bank turned in very satisfying results , signifying the robustness and resilience of our business model . furthermore we have our operating structure from a geographic to a customer segmented approach , which emphasises specialisation across all business segments . "  comments ( 3 )  read other user 's comments about this page . you can add your own comments below .  the growth appears alright but as a shareholder , i hope it not based on the opportunistic banking reforms that shifted customers ' attention vulnerable though more efficient banks , as opposed to innovative business strategy .  first bank plc is a slow grower given the huge resources at its disposal and banking reform policies that tilt towards its advantage . other smaller banks like uba and eco have relatively leaner resources but are felt all over africa .  @udendeh there is nothing wrong with being a " slow grower " especially when you consider the fact that the profitability opportunities in sub-saharan africa are very much limited . several nations have gdps much lower than some nigerian states . you 've used uba and ecobank as examples of banks that are " felt all over africa " but that does n't mean much dismal .  please leave your comment below . your name will appear next to your comment . we 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .