Hafeez was the game changer - Faf
http://www.iol.co.za/sport/cricket/proteas/hafeez-was-the-game-changer-faf-1.1479796

Hafeez was the game changer -- Faf  Centurion -- Mohammad Hafeez was the game changer for Pakistan , said losing skipper Faf du Plessis after South Africa suffered their worst defeat in Twenty20 cricket on Sunday .  " The shorter the format , the bigger the chance that one person can change the game and Hafeez changed the game today , " Du Plessis said after Pakistan beat South Africa by 95 runs .  With the first match rained out in Durban on Friday night , Pakistan took the series 1-0 courtesy of Hafeez , who tore apart the South African attack .  " We gave Hafeez too many options and he was scoring both sides of the wicket , " said Du Plessis .  " It was only in the 15th or 16th over , we bowled much better and managed to restrict them and get some wickets at the end . So that 's one positive we can take from the game . "  After a dismal Test series , Hafeez played an outstanding knock for his 86 off fours and four sixes , came to an unfortunate end when his back foot slid onto his stumps and dislodged the bails .  Pakistan started with intent and had the run rate at over nine runs an over from the seventh over .  " We can learn from them the way they played the first eight overs , " Du Plessis said .  " They put the pressure on our bowlers and made the rest of the game much easier for themselves . "  Having beaten Pakistan 3-0 in the Test series , on wickets suited to the South African seam attack , it was a different matter in the T20 .  " When it comes to playing on a wicket like this one -- which was very close to being a road -- their skills are better than ours and that 's another area where we want to learn from them . "  Pakistan 's opening pair of Nasir Jamshed and Ahmed Shehzad set the pace with the latter smacking two sixes before he was run out on 46 .  He faced 25 brought Hafeez to the crease but it had no effect on the team 's momentum .  Hafeez reached his half-century off 30 balls and achieved his highest T20 score -- his previous being 71 against Zimbabwe , in Harare .  Du Plessis had to call on his ' death ' bowlers midway through the innings and said the only advice he gave his bowlers was not to panic .  " We 're building towards the next T20 World Cup so if it means experimenting with inexperienced players , then so be it .  " When Pakistan are on fire like they were today , they can put the best in the world under pressure and it was a learning curve for our young guys . "  Chasing 196 , South Africa opened their innings with AB de Villiers and Henry Davids and tried to replicate the fast start made by the opposition .  " It 's the one thing that worked for us today . We know what AB can do in the middle order , so it was just a case of trying him attack . "  De Villiers scored 36 off 22 balls , hitting four boundaries and two sixes , until he was castled by Mohammad Irfan .  Kleinveldt was the only other South African batsman to make a start as Umar Gul took five wickets for six runs off 2.2 overs . And , after his masterful batting , Hafeez took three for 25 with the ball .  " it was a great feeling to walk into a happy dressing-room , " said Hafeez after the match .  " I 've missed it for the last 42 days and I just hope we can keep up this good feeling for the one-day series .  He said during the Test series , he always felt he was batting well in the nets , but got out to some good balls .  " I have to thank the coaches , who always remained positive and lifted my morale . I always try and go out there and express myself and today I took my chances because the pressure is on the bowlers in the T20 format . " you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines