Another shack blaze and 100 homeless
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/western-cape/another-shack-blaze-and-100-homeless-1.1479754

Another shack blaze and 100 homeless  INLSADesperate residents of Ekuphumleni in Dunoon work hard at rebuilding their homes after a fire blazed through the informal settlement early yesterday , destroying 60 homes and leaving about 100 people homeless . Picture : WILLEM LAW  " Thanks to yet another shack blaze , I have to ask for a loan from my bosses to try to fix my family 's lives . I have to start my life all over again . "  That was all Nokubonga Tomose could say after a fire in Ekuphumleni , Dunoon , early on Saturday morning .  Residents said an unattended candle left in a shack had started the fire , which destroyed 60 homes in the informal settlement , leaving about 100 people homeless .  The city 's fire and rescue services said in a statement that the blaze was reported at 12.23am yesterday .  There were no deaths and no one was injured , but scores of residents lost everything they owned .  A fire in Khayelitsha on New Year 's Day left more still not been permanently rehoused .  Disaster Risk Management Centre spokesman Wilfred Solomons-Johannes said the blaze was extinguished at about 3.20am yesterday , after fire engines had been sent from Milnerton , Melkbosstrand , Epping , Goodwood and Brooklyn .  Residents at the scene yesterday , struggling to begin rebuilding , said the alleged perpetrator fled immediately when he returned to his shack to find it burning .  A devastated Tomose , who has two daughters , aged nine and one , said the fire destroyed her baby 's food and clothing .  " She 's only feeding from rooibos tea because I do n't have money to buy her more baby food , " she said .  Her elder daughter 's school uniform , stationery and books were also destroyed .  Tomose settled in Ekuphumleni after moving from Ethembeni , also in Dunoon , after a fire razed her home there .  " On Monday I 'll talk to my bosses and see if they can help , " she said .  A local NGO was already on the scene yesterday handing . - Sunday Argus  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines