Freecom Mobile SQ portable hard drive review
http://mybroadband.co.za/news/reviews/70560-freecom-mobile-sq-portable-hard-drive-review.html

Those shopping for external drives are usually looking for four things -- design , capacity , performance , and value for money . Out of the box it looks like the Freecom Mobile SQ 500GB hard drive has the first two covered , but is this the full package ? Let 's have a closer look .  Freecom Mobile SQ design and build quality  The Mobile SQ sports a very lightweight design -- it has a rounded square shape , fits in your hand and is only a little over a centimetre in thickness . This makes it extremely portable and easy to slip into a laptop bag or backpack -- not bad for 500GB of storage .  The top and bottom are both done in a sandblasted stainless steel , with a textured black plastic along the sides . There 's a single USB 3.0 port on the back , and four flat rubber feet on the bottom . The feet were a nice touch which prevented the drive from slipping around , without adding much height to it .  Overall it feels very sturdy and solid . A lot of mobile drives you see are done in glossy colours or with striking accents , but the Mobile SQ manages a much more understated look that makes it look a lot less like a running shoe than its competition . The toned-down looks and rubber feet make it great for a media device to plug in to your television , where it should fit in quite nicely .  My only complaint is the bundled cable , which is very short -- under a metre .  Freecom Mobile SQ  Freecom Mobile SQ features  The main selling point of this drive is how compact it is ; it 's one of the smaller drives you 'll find at this kind of capacity , impressive considering the Mobile SQ is also available with 1TB of storage . The 1TB is admittedly a little thicker , but not by much .  Those wanting security features are going to be disappointed -- the drive does n't come with password protection or any other kind of security , so you 'll want to keep  One thing Freecom have included is a nifty power-saving function that puts the drive into standby when it 's finished copying . It 's not a major selling point , but it 's neat if you want to leave something large to copy while you 're out the house or office .  The drive is both Mac and Windows compliant , and comes with a bit of pre-loaded software for Windows users in the form of Nero 's Back It Up and Burn . The software allows you to back up data to the drive as well as format it to your own specifications . Unfortunately , Mac users are stuck with their own OS tools to do the same job .  Freecom Mobile SQ  Freecom Mobile SQ performance  The Freecom Mobile SQ performed reasonably in read and write tests , boasting read times of around 104-109 MB/s and write times just below that at 102-107 MB/s . This is of course using the drive 's USB 3.0 capabilities ; in a USB 2.0 port you 're going to get a tenth of that . It going to get speeds quite a lot lower , around 35-40 MB/s , but this is normal and nothing to worry about .  These performance figures are about what you 'd expect ; you would n't want to see numbers much lower than this . There are faster drives out there , but the difference is n't any cause for major concern .  Freecom Mobile SQ  Freecom Mobile SQ conclusion  At an RRP of R999 for the 500GB version , the Freecom Mobile SQ is n't what you 'd call cheap . If all you want is 500GB of storage at USB 3.0 speeds , you could get that for as little as R750 .  However , what you are paying for here is the design -- you 'd be hard pressed to find a 500GB drive as compact and elegant as this . It 'll fit in great with your media setup at home , and for a lot of people that will be worth the couple of hundred Rands extra .