Woman held for bomb threat at East London Airport
http://www.timeslive.co.za/local/2013/03/03/woman-held-for-bomb-threat-at-east-london-airport

airbus confirmed that south african airways ( saa ) on wednesday morning supplied it with the required legal documents for the lease of five a330-300 aircraft , as per its instructions by finance minister pravin gordhan , as well as his predecessor nhlanhla nene .  french carmaker renault aims to complete its takeover of the lotus formula one team on dec. 16 and pay creditors , including britain 's tax authorities , by the end of the year , the high court heard on monday .  2015 is already almost over . we 've seen arrests at fifa over corruption and bribery claims , the rugby and cricket national teams failing to make the grade at their respective world cup campaigns , and sprinter wayde van niekerk making history at the iaaf world ...  super songstress adele is on route to sell a million copies of her latest album " 25 " by christmas eve in the us for its third non-consecutive week , breaking yet another music industry benchmark ( via billboard ) .  arts and culture minister nathi mthethwa on saturday kgasoane ? saying his life 's work demonstrated an extraordinary ability to use his musical talents and gifts to enrich the lives of others .  dr michael mol and john berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals , but that does n't mean dessert is off the menu . try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  we have noted with some concern the confusion that has been caused by the article published on times live entitled : young african leadership initiative asks anc to recall zuma for ' betraying sa and party ' .  woman held for bomb threat at east london airport  sapa 03 march , 2013 13:12  the suspect made a threat about an explosive device in her bag when airport security requested that she declare any dangerous weapons or items in her possession . file photoimage by : toru hanai / reuters  a woman has been arrested for making a bomb threat at the east london airport , eastern cape police said on sunday .  save &amp; share  " it explosive device in her bag when airport security requested that she declare any dangerous weapons or items in her possession , " said captain stephen marais .  the 27-year-old woman made the threat while waiting to board a flight out of east london on friday .  police sniffer dogs and the explosives unit inspected her luggage , but found nothing dangerous .  " police wish to warn the public to refrain from making bomb threats , as this constitutes a very serious offence and is punishable by a fine or prison sentence or both , " said marais .  he said the woman would appear in the east london magistrate 's court on monday on charges relating to the explosives act .