Swizz-Army knife of tech gadgets 'If Convertible' goes Ubuntu
http://gearburn.com/2013/12/swizz-army-knife-of-tech-gadgets-if-convertible-goes-ubuntu/

Swizz-Army knife of tech gadgets ' If Convertible ' goes Ubuntu  Three parts , two screens , one device to rule them all . Idealfuture is currently raising funds for its campaign on Indiegogo and hopes its If Convertible will be the 2014 's gadget game changer . The so-called Swizz-Army knife of computing devices aims to satisfy your needs for a smartphone , tablet and notebook -- putting it all under one data plan . The company announced today it 's begun development on an Ubuntu &amp; Android version of our if convertible Alpha series .  The awkwardly-named If Convertible looks like a notebook with an identity crises ... which it maybe is but it does feature dual screens of which the right-hand display can be detached to be used as a smartphone . That 's right . The screens of the dual screen notebook can also be arranged so that you 'd be able to use the If Convertible as a tablet .  The right screen also doubles up as what 's called the " Singshot " . This is powered by camera . The rear camera will range from 13MB to a crazy 41MB depending on the model and come with a Carl Zeiss lens and Xenon flash . It also has USB , HDMI and Ethernet ports at the base with LTE support .  One of its catches is n't the fact that the hardware is supposedly adaptable and meant to give you twice the fun and productivity . No , it 's the fact that you can run all your favorite Android apps alongside the flexibility and power of Windows 8 or Ubuntu software . One OS on each halve .  The two screens combined gives us a total of 12 ? 1920 x 1080 . Also , both the base and the Slingshot hold 128GB each with the option of expandable storage . Furthermore , the If Convertible features 4GB in the Slingshot and an additional 4GB in the laptop base .  All in all , there 's a bunch of different models ranging from the US$800 Alpha to the US$1200 Executive series , all offering different colour schemes , tweaks and perks .  Author . Keen to take over the world , one word at a time , he has always been interested in both politics and development and studied International Relations ( BA ) at Stellenbosch University . With an interest in innovation and social change , he seeks to tell the ... More