Desperate dreams of Cape's matrics
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/western-cape/desperate-dreams-of-cape-s-matrics-1.1616241

desperate dreams of cape 's matrics  school 's out for summer -- school 's out forever . but what 's next ? this is the predicament facing 48 000 western cape matrics as they celebrate the end of their schooling and await their results on january 7 . the cape argus asked 300 matrics in manenberg and khayelitsha about their dreams -- and what was stopping them from coming true  cape town - bursting out of school halls after writing their last big exam , most matrics could only think of that night 's party . but those who pause to think about the future have big dreams , plenty of hope , and a desperate desire to improve their lot .  however , their plans are about to come up against twin challenges : universities in the western cape can only accept 21 percent of applications , and the job market is extremely tough .  most matrics -- 68 percent -- want to study further next year . but many have not applied to university , or may not achieve a university jobs after matric .  according to stats sa , 7 million south africans who want jobs can not find them . more than half of them are between 15 and 24 .  the job market may have very little space for matriculants , but this has n't dimmed their great hopes . they will have a mountain to climb -- and no one is better equipped to climb mountains than konwaba nkone .  nkone , 19 , lives with his grandmother in khayelitsha and has just finished matric at masiyile high . he has applied to study sports management at the cape peninsula university of technology ( cput ) -- as a stepping stone to a career doing what he loves : mountain climbing .  nkone escapes to the mountain as often as he can . " when you grow up in the township , you do n't get space to think about yourself . you are always disturbed . when i 'm in the mountains i get the time to listen to myself , to get to know myself . "  his grandmother , thelma the dangers of khayelitsha . " my soul is relieved , because i 'm always worrying . when somebody comes and takes him up to the mountain he is safe . "  nkone hikes with 15 other boys from the township . they call themselves desert rose , because they are trying to grow up beautiful in a barren place .  last week , they climbed table mountain , stayed overnight in one of the mountain huts , then hiked down through kirstenbosch . conquering the mountain made nkone feel unstoppable .  " i feel i 'm going to pass matric . i feel there 's nothing i ca n't do . "  despite the many things nkone dislikes about khayelitsha , it 's where he wants to live once he 's a successful sports manager and mountain climber . " i do n't want to run away . i want to stay here so people can see this guy has made it . i want to be a role model . "  he hopes that when they see his success , they will believe they guys end up doing bad things here , " he says . " they spend days sitting on the corner gaining nothing .  " they must stick to school . they must be strong and not give up . then they will live a great life . then they can get out of the township . "  a gap year appeals to matriculants who just want to earn some money , but is a bad idea in the long run , says nkone . " you 're going to get a job at shoprite , earn some money and forget about your career . then later you have kids , and see that it 's not real money . "  nkone is in it for the long run .  " i 'm going to climb kilimanjaro , " he says . " nothing that can stop me . "  sesethu rawe , a fellow pupil at masiyile high , wants to be the first person in her family to go to university . " getting matric is not enough for me , " she says . had wanted to apply to cput , but only got as far as filling in the forms . she had only r50 of the r150 application fee , and could n't submit the paperwork .  without acceptance to a university , rawe does n't know what she will do .  " i 'm blank . i do n't have any plans , " she says . " my mom does n't want me to work because she says i wo n't go back to school . "  rawe 's mother is in the eastern cape , while she lives with her uncle in mfuleni .  " i would not be happy staying here , " she says . just attending class was a battle some days , as she would not be able to pay the taxi fare to school in khayelitsha .  rawe 's mother wants her to be a teacher , but her heart is set on being a lawyer and living in sandton . " i like to solve other people 's problems , and i 'm a good adviser . i 'm also at a loss about future study . some got unskilled jobs to earn some money . then they never study further .  " money is the root of all evil , " she says . " they want to get jobs because their family ca n't support them . they finish matric and they think they are done . but the job is not good , and it 's not permanent . then when you 've had a job it 's hard to go back to school . "  rawe is anxious about her results . she failed her june exams , but improved in september . she studied with two classmates : they helped her with maths while she taught them to do summaries for the language papers .  " i worked hard . "  according to the cape argus survey , business was by far the favourite job category selected by matrics imagining their ideal life in 10 years . social work was next , followed by accounting , natural and physical sciences , and hospitality .  unskilled jobs were selected by 20 , join the army or work for the city council .  most matrics want families , but they do n't want to raise them in the same place they grew up . a staggering majority want to move away and better their living conditions .  out of 108 responses from matrics at school in manenberg , 22 wanted to live " anywhere but manenberg " or " anywhere outside the townships " .  eighty percent believe they will achieve their dreams , and 5 percent do n't think they will ever have the job or house they want . they say the biggest barrier between them and their dreams is money .  western cape education mec donald grant says he is confident school has prepared pupils for the next stage of their lives .  " the fact is , their future is now in their hands and they must grasp the opportunities that come their way . this next phase in their lives may seem daunting . however , without even knowing it they have been equipping themselves over the past 12 years , bit by @ @ @