Sharapova retains Stuttgart title with ease
http://www.supersport.com/tennis/wta/news/130428/Sharapova_retains_Stuttgart_title_with_ease

tennis wta  sharapova retains stuttgart title with ease  world no 2 maria sharapova saved her best performance of the week for last when she successfully defended her stuttgart grand prix title with a 6-4 6-3 victory over second seed li na of china to kick off her clay-court season in style on sunday .  sharapova , who had needed three sets in all her previous rounds in stuttgart , found it easier against li , taking revenge for her australian open straight-sets semifinal defeat to the chinese .  " i thought i would play three sets today . li is a great opponent . i knew it would be one of the toughest matches because she had a great week , " said a beaming sharapova before stepping into a luxury sports car , a gift from the tournament sponsors .  " i was very fortunate to be in this position today , " said the 26-year-old , who has also won the title in indian wells this year , in a courtside interview .  " our head-to-head is pretty tight pretty well so i wanted revenge . "  this video is not available in your region  the top seed , her loud grunts echoing around the stadium , snatched a break at the start , with a sizzling backhand down the line that left li stranded .  world no 5 li , who has won one title this year , sent a crosscourt backhand into the net to give the russian another break and allow her to go 4-1 up .  the australian open finalist bounced back in the next game and grabbed her own first break when sharapova sent a forehand long after a long rally .  sharapova was in no mood for adventures , however , and quickly established a double break cushion , then served out the first set on her first opportunity when li sank a return into the net after another well-placed serve .  the pair traded blows until sharapova earned another break point and went 4-3 up .  with a superb first-serve figure of 76 percent throughout the game , she kept her opponent