WIN $50 with our African Thinkers Blogging Competition
http://africanbrains.net/2013/07/04/win-50-with-our-african-thinkers-blogging-competition/

win $50 with our african thinkers blogging competition  africanbrains is offering you the opportunity to express your opinions , subject knowledge and insight of what is happening on the ground in africa with a chance to win $50 in the process .  we will set a topic related to the subjects of education , science , technology , research or ict and we will invite you to send us a positive 400-500 word , witty , and most of all entertaining article using your local knowledge to inform your piece . we will also give a deadline of around 2 weeks for each of the set topics .  the article must be up-to-date and relevant to our set topic , using current issues or news in your country or region . the article must be unique and include a brief explanation of the background to your knowledge . any persons quoted in your article must be directly attributable . we will not accept articles that are just aggregated news or copies of existing stories available elsewhere on the web .  if we publish forget to share it with your friends &amp; social contacts .  every 2 -- 3 weeks a selection of articles will put to the vote via our facebook page ( do n't forget to ' like ' if you have n't done so already -- **30;83;toolong ) and you get to decide which you think is best . the article with the most votes wins and the winner will receive a $50 prize directly into their paypal account .  after announcing the winner a new topic will be set and we start the process again .  to start the ball rolling please register using the form below . please note that all fields are required . rest assured your details will not be passed onto any third party and will only be used in the management of this competition .  we 'll be announcing the first topic very soon ...  first name  last name  email  link to facebook profile or id this can be found in your web browser address bar when viewing your fb timeline and will look a bit like this will be an email address linked to your paypal account which we 'll need to pay any winnings . if you do n't have a paypal account you can get one at www.paypal.com  plese tell us a bit about yourself  town/city  country of residence  yes , i have read , understood and agree to the terms &amp; rules stated here ( you must tick this box to activate the " submit " button . )  i would like to participate , but as your saying that " normal journalistic rules will apply " , is this a way to push away all those that are not journalists ? coz pipo out there can write , why not starndard rules ? ? we do nt have to go into journalism classes to qualify for this- seriusly ! or maybe state the rules. , am just concerned .  africa has already discovered the cure for aids by instinct without any chemical formula . but the west do nt want to accept it until they discover their own cure with chemical formulae . but that 's nonsense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @