Google Chromecast hacked: here's how
http://gearburn.com/2013/07/google-chromecast-hacked-heres-how/

google chromecast hacked : here 's how  people will hack anything , especially if it 's a us$35 media streamer called chromecast . no-one 's ever happy with what they 've got , which partly explains the success of the iphone , still -- what to with a hacked chromecast ? before we explain , there 's something you should know : most of you will get very little joy out of the google chromecast hack : it 's aimed at developers looking to create and run custom software on the hdmi wunder-dongle . but this is step one as hack creators gtv say . with this tool , the smartest of us will be able to get inside the inner workings of this very new and very mysterious . first off , here 's proof of concept , presented below in this awfully quiet video :  secondly , here 's what we know about chromecast so far . it 's not chromeos , it 's a " modified " version of google tv , with most of the juicy parts stripped down to the apk ) is impossible , the bootloader , kernel , init scripts and binaries of google tv are all front and present .  a flaw in logic  chromecast has some exploitable bugs and by holding down the single button on the device , gtv 's unsigned kernal will replace the official system files with the rooted ones . once all is said and done , you can telnet to the root shell of chromecast on port 23 . it 's less complicated than it sounds , and all you need is a usb cable , chromecast and a memory stick . onto the hack , as detailed by gtv 's wiki page .  items needed :  blank usb flash drive ( at least 128mb ) -- your drive will be erased --  our usb image  google chromecast  powered micro usb otg cable  if not a powered micro usb otg cable , then find a way to rig up a cable that does just this . we will not provide instructions , it 's simple , but still . just buy the cable . " gtvhacker-chromecast.bin " file .  install our usb image as a whole to your usb flash drive with dd :  syntax : dd **27;115;toolong of=/dev/sdx bs=1024  root process :  plug the flash drive into one female " a " end of the usb otg cable  plug the other end into the chromecast  hold down the button on the chromecast while plugging in the power cord .  watch the screen , and any blinking light on your flash drive . the chromecast will power up , execute our unsigned kernel , kick off to a script that replaces /system with a rooted one . it will then wipe /data , and reboot back to the normal system . all of this should take about a minute . do n't unplug anything while it is installing .  when it is complete , your box will reboot , and you will see a new splash screen , and then the setup screen . just re-set up your chromecast , and you can telnet to get a root shell on your chromecast on port 23 !  . gtv also notes that at " any time " an update could be pushed through that negates their hack . good luck , and get creative .