Miners win enviro kudos for saving spiders
http://www.iol.co.za/scitech/science/environment/miners-win-enviro-kudos-for-saving-spiders-1.1554353

Miners win enviro kudos for saving spiders  SUPPLIEDAn adult female golden-brown baboon spider one of two species successfully relocated in a Limpopo experiment .  Cape Town - Coal miners are often considered environmental villains for their impact on natural systems , but one mining company is winning green kudos for a project that is both highly unusual and a first for the sub-continent : the translocation of indigenous baboon spiders .  Their experiment , that produced highly positive results , will help others re-establish a fuller range of biodiversity -- and hence promote functioning ecosystems -- in areas rehabilitated after mining and other highly disruptive industrial activities .  The spider relocation project was initiated by mining group Exxaro Resources near Lephalale in Limpopo , and involved two species : the golden-brown baboon spider ( Augacephalus junodi ) and burst horned baboon spider ( Ceratogyrus darlingi ) .  These long-lived spiders are common and not endangered , but are protected by biodiversity legislation because they 're illegally targeted for the pet trade .  The relocation project team consisted of the mining company Game Reserve Marius Fuls and entomologist Dr Dawid Jacobs .  Smit explained that the project had been initiated because of construction activities at its Grootegeluk mine that was being expanded to provide coal for Eskom 's new Medupi power station nearby .  Creation of a new burrow for one the translocated spiders . Pictures : ExxaroSUPPLIED  The spiders had been spotted during the vegetation-clearing phase and it had been decided to move them to a safer area .  There were three parts to the experiment :  l Finding the most effective method of baboon spider relocation by testing different options , including the provision of artificial burrows ( 200 releases ) .  l Seeing whether the two species could construct their own burrows after relocation ( 80 releases ) .  l Testing the findings by relocating 60 spiders to a rehabilitation site where they had originally occurred but disappeared after industrial disturbance .  The spiders were caught by Lephalale resident and spider expert Marius Koekemoer and moved to an 800 hectare section of Manketti .  Soil augers were used to create the fixed over each burrow to prevent spiders from escaping and to keep predators out .  The researchers were delighted to find a 95 percent acceptance of artificial burrows within the first week , and the 60 spiders relocated on Eskom 's rehabilitated Matimba power station ash dump in order to test the results of the research project also fared well .  " We were surprised and absolutely thrilled with a 95 percent acceptance rate , " said Fuls , who said that releasing the spiders without a ready-made burrow was not very successful because they were usually eaten by predators such as baboons , mongooses , birds and other spiders before they could build a shelter for themselves .  Eskom was " very excited " by the results . a construction company had heard about the project and brought through a number of spiders they 'd found while working on a pipeline project in the Lephalale area , and another mining company had also expressed interest in the project , he added .  " I 'm really proud to have been involved . It 's given us area , we do have mitigation methods , thereby giving us an opportunity to meet our commitment to sustainability . " - Cape Argus  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines