Man jailed for killing wife's teen 'lover'
http://www.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/man-jailed-for-killing-wife-s-teen-lover-1.1554328

man jailed for killing wife 's teen ' lover '  independent newspapersthe man who shot dead a grade 11 pupil he suspected of being his teacher wifes lover , has been sentenced to 10 years in prison . this was after he pleaded guilty to the murder of sipheshile kheswa , and the attempted murder of his wife , bongiwe thusi . picture:sandile makhoba  durban - the man who shot dead a grade 11 pupil he suspected of being his teacher wife 's lover , has been sentenced to an effective 10 years in prison . this was after pleading guilty to the murder of 20-year-old sipheshile kheswa , and the attempted murder of his wife , bongiwe thusi .  appearing in the durban magistrate 's court on friday , simon thusi , 45 , was sentenced to 10 years for murder and five for attempted murder , to be served concurrently .  in a statement read by his legal aid lawyer , the court heard that thusi had last year " shot randomly " after confronting kheswa , who he found " have sex " .  when his wife tried to stop him by grabbing him with both arms , he shot at her too , wounding her in both legs .  thusi , who worked in port shepstone as a teacher and only returned to his doonside family home on weekends , had been booked off sick on september 4 last year .  " i found the house locked and sat under a tree to wait for my wife . " he said his wife came to drop off their two children , aged three and 12 , then drove off , returning four hours later with kheswa who was a pupil at hlengiwe high , where his wife taught .  " i went inside and asked him what he was doing in my house . he said this was his girlfriend 's house , i was so angry and shocked , " said thusi . it was then that he pulled out his firearm , which he had bought while working in the taxi industry , and fired . " the children came in and asked why in the house . "  bobbi bear child safety officer , ladyfair sibiya , who was called in to assist the children on the day of the incident , said they had been deeply traumatised . " we have put them through counselling , but they are not coping at all . "  state prosecutor calvin govender said thusi 's lack of self-control had not only cost a life but had also left his children psychologically scarred .  although he said he did not doubt thusi 's remorse , being a teacher , he had set a bad example . " is this what we want our children to look up to ? he could not control himself and killed . the interests of justice outweigh his personal circumstances , " said govender .  delivering the judgment , magistrate farida mohamed said thusi had positioned himself so he could observe what was happening without being seen then , upon realising the two were having an affair , chose to shoot rather than calming himself and attempting to resolve the matter .  she called his action in was provoked by circumstances beyond his control .  thusi 's wife of seven years sat with her arms folded at the back of the court .  speaking to the daily news after court had adjourned david daniels , the deceased 's cousin , said he was relieved thusi had been found guilty but he was not happy with the sentence , calling for life instead . " i hate what he did . we would have been the first in our entire family to matriculate , " he said .  crying as he spoke , daniels said it had been his idea for siphesihle to move from flagstaff in the eastern cape to durban to continue his education . " we were both in the same grade at the same school . i had seen him during break and we had talked about what we should do for my birthday - only for him to die on that day . "  thusi was last year fired by the education department , spokesman , muzi mahlambi , confirmed .  daily news  * if you use gmail rolling out a new tabbed inbox that filters your mail into 5 separate tabs - primary , social , promotions , updates and forums . iol emails will probably be sent to the " promotions " tab instead of the " primary " tab . if you do n't want it that way , drag the newsletter from the promotions tab to the primary tab . an alert will pop up . click " yes " and your newsletters will continue to go to your primary inbox .  comment guidelines  has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our @ @