US and allies preparing for probable strike on Syria
http://www.dailymaverick.co.za/article/2013-08-28-us-and-allies-preparing-for-probable-strike-on-syria/

US and allies preparing for probable strike on Syria  Reuters  Reuters  World  28 Aug 2013 01:26 ( South Africa )  The United States and its allies were gearing up on Tuesday for a probable military strike against Syria that could happen within days as punishment for last week 's chemical weapons attacks blamed on President Bashar al-Assad 's government . By Khaled Yacoub Oweis and William Maclean .  Western powers have told the Syrian opposition to expect military action against Assad 's forces soon , according to sources who attended a meeting between envoys and the Syrian National Coalition in Istanbul .  Amid a quickening drumbeat of preparations , U.S. Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel said American forces in the region were " ready to go " if President Barack Obama gives the order , as intelligence agencies assembled what is sure to be final confirmation of the Syrian government 's culpability for Wednesday 's poison gas attack near Damascus .  White House spokesman Jay Carney said it would " fanciful " to think that anyone other than Syrian President , which killed hundreds of people as they slept .  Obama has yet to make a final decision on the U.S. response , Carney said , but left little doubt that it would involve military action . He insisted , however , that Washington was not intent on " regime change , " signalling that any military strikes would be limited and not meant to topple Assad .  The British military was also drafting plans . Prime Minister David Cameron , anxious , like Obama , not to emulate the entanglements in wars in Afghanistan and Iraqi that beset their predecessors , said any strikes would be " specific " so as not to drag the allies deeper into the Syrian civil war now in its third year .  Cameron recalled parliament for a debate on Syria on Thursday .  U. N. chemical weapons investigators put off until Wednesday a second trip to the rebel-held suburbs of Damascus , where activists say hundreds of civilians died a week ago .  While evidence of chemical warfare could bolster an argument for intervention at the United Nations in leaders and the Arab League have already declared Assad guilty .  Ahmad Jarba , president of the rebel Syrian National Coalition , met envoys from 11 countries at an Istanbul hotel , including the U.S. ambassador to Syria , Robert Ford . The rebel leaders proposed targets for cruise missiles and bombing .  One participant said : " The opposition was told in clear terms that action to deter further use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime could come as early as in the next few days . "  Planning appears to focus on missile or air strikes . There is little public support in Western countries for troops to invade Syria .  " We have moved assets in place to be able to fulfil and comply with whatever option the president wishes to take , " Hagel said .  The precise timing of possible military action remained unclear , but it is certain to wait for an official U.S. intelligence report blaming Assad 's government for the chemical attack . The findings , considered merely a formality at this point , will be released pressure for U.S. action on Syria Obama is expected to keep close watch on the situation there , but he will go ahead with a speech on Wednesday at Washington 's Lincoln Memorial marking the 50th anniversary of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr . ' s " I have a dream speech . "  MOOD IN DAMASCUS  Syria 's government , backed by Iran , denies gassing its own people and has vowed to defend itself , but residents of Damascus are growing anxious .  " I 've always been a supporter of foreign intervention , but now that it seems like a reality , I 've been worrying that my family could be hurt or killed , " said a woman named Zaina , who opposes Assad . " I 'm afraid of a military strike now . "  " The big fear is that they 'll make the same mistakes they made in Libya and Iraq , " said Ziyad , a man in his 50s . " They 'll hit civilian targets and then they 'll cry that it was by . "  Russia , Assad 's main arms supplier , opposes military action and has suggested that rebel forces may have released the poison gas . China 's state news agency recalled how flawed intelligence was used to justify the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 .  Firm opposition from permanent members of the U.N . Security Council all but rules out a U.N . mandate of the kind that gave legal backing to NATO air strikes that helped Libyan rebels unseat Muammar Gaddafi two years ago . However , Western officials say they do want to act within international law .  Moscow and Beijing accuse Western powers of using human rights complaints , such as in Libya , to meddle in sovereign states ' affairs . White House spokesman Carney insisted : " The options that we are considering are not about regime change .  " They are about responding to a clear violation of an international standard that prohibits the use of chemical weapons . " Although Obama has long said Assad should step down , he is unwilling to commit to making that happen the interests of the United States " to respond to the chemical weapons attack .  In Britain , Cameron told reporters : " This is not about getting involved in a Middle Eastern war or changing our stance in Syria or going further into that conflict . It 's about chemical weapons . Their use is wrong and the world should n't stand idly by . "  In France , which played a major role in Libya , President Francois Hollande said he was " ready to punish " Assad for using the chemical weapons , citing a 2005 U.N . provision for international action to protect civilians from their own governments .  Similar arguments were used by NATO to bomb Serbia , a Russian ally , after the killing of civilians in Kosovo .  In an indication of support from Arab states that may help Western powers argue the case for an attack against likely U.N . vetoes from Moscow and Beijing , the Arab League issued a statement holding Assad 's government responsible for the chemical attack .  Fears of another international conflict in a six-month high and stocks fell around the world , notably in Turkey , as well as in emerging economies that would suffer from a chill in trade .  The government of Turkey , a NATO member , called for action against Assad for what it called a " crime against humanity . "  TOUGH CHOICES  Obama , Cameron and Hollande face questions at home about how a military intervention would end , whether they risk bolstering Assad if he rides out the assault and whether they risk handing power to anti-Western Islamist rebels if Assad were overthrown .  Turmoil in Egypt , where the 2011 uprising inspired Syrians to rebel , has underlined the unpredictability of revolutions . The presence of Islamist militants , including allies of al Qaeda in the Syrian rebel ranks , has given Western leaders pause . They have held back so far from helping Assad 's opponents to victory .  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Moualem said U.S. strikes would help al Qaeda and called Western leaders " delusional " if they hoped to help the rebels reach a balance of defending ourselves , and we will surprise them with these if necessary , " he said . " We will defend ourselves . We will not hesitate to use any means available . "  Assad 's forces made little or no response to three attacks by Israeli aircraft earlier this year that Israeli officials said disrupted arms flowing from Iran to Lebanon 's Hezbollah .  The presence of United Nations experts in Damascus may be a factor holding back international military action . The experts came under fire in government-held territory on Monday before reaching the rebel lines . They interviewed and took samples from survivors , though much evidence may have decayed .  Opposition activists have said at least 500 people , and possibly twice that many , were killed by rockets carrying the nerve gas sarin or something similar . If so , it was the worst chemical weapons attack since Saddam Hussein gassed thousands of Iraqi Kurds in 1988 . DM  Photo : The guided-missile destroyer USS Ramage is seen operating in the Arabian Gulf in this handout picture taken on November 15 , deployed in the Mediterranean Sea equipped with long-range Tomahawk missles that could potentially be used to strike Syria , according to officials . REUTERS/Specialist 2nd Class Miguel Angel Contreras/U.S . Navy/Handout  COP21 and South Africa 's impending Coal Cliff  Cricket : England tour a big income boost for South Africa  By Reuters  SA vs England Test series preview : Five key battles  By Antoinette Muller  Comments  Our policy dictates first names and surnames must be used to comment on articles . Failure to do so will see them removed . We also reserve the right to delete comments deemed lewd , racist or just generally not contributing to intelligent debate that have been flagged by other readers . As a general rule of thumb , just avoid being a douchebag and you 'll be ok , both on these pages and in life . Read the full policy here