Miss World to continue despite Muslim objection
http://www.channel24.co.za/News/Local/Miss-World-to-continue-despite-Muslim-objection-20130827

miss world to continue despite muslim objection  related links  jakarta - the miss world beauty pageant will go ahead in indonesia next month despite objections from the country 's leading islamic federation , an organizer said on tuesday .  " we have obtained support from the government so there are no obstacles , " said syafril nasution , corporate affairs director for rcti , the organizer and official broadcaster of the event .  " since the beginning , we have made it clear that the event will not feature bikinis , or make use of anything that is against religious and cultural values , " he said . " so we do n't really understand why there are still objections . "  amidhan sabrah , chairman of the indonesian council of ulema , said it was opposed to the event because it objectified women .  " this kind of events turn women into a commodity and that is against islam , " he said . " maybe in the west it 's not a problem , but it should not part  but sabrah conceded that the council was not a religious police .  " we have the right to object , " he said . " whether the event will go ahead or not it 's up to the government . "  the semi-official council consists of religious scholars representing the country 's various islamic organizations .  the pageant is scheduled for 28 september in sentul , on the outskirts of jakarta .  last year , authorities in jakarta refused to issue a concert permit for eccentric american pop diva lady gaga following protests by hardline muslim groups that said her stage act was pornographic .  about 88 per cent of indonesia 's 238 million people adhere to the islamic faith , making it the world 's largest muslim-majority country .  most indonesian muslims are moderate , but vocal hardline groups have been increasingly bold in pushing their agenda in recent years .  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our comments policy . should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so right of each comment .