Spare Syria's hospitals: world medical leaders
http://www.timeslive.co.za/world/2013/09/16/spare-syria-s-hospitals-world-medical-leaders

Islamic State has sanctioned the harvesting of human organs in a previously undisclosed ruling by the group 's Islamic scholars , raising concerns that the violent extremist group may be trafficking in body parts .  French carmaker Renault aims to complete its takeover of the Lotus Formula One team on Dec. 16 and pay creditors , including Britain 's tax authorities , by the end of the year , the High Court heard on Monday .  2015 is already almost over . We 've seen arrests at FIFA over corruption and bribery claims , the rugby and cricket national teams failing to make the grade at their respective World Cup campaigns , and sprinter Wayde van Niekerk making history at the IAAF World ...  Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa on Saturday paid tribute to the late legendary musician Lehlara Banza Samson Kgasoane ? saying his life 's work demonstrated an extraordinary ability to use his musical talents and gifts to enrich the lives of others .  Dr Michael Mol and John Berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook does n't mean dessert is off the menu . Try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  A team from the University of the Witwatersrand will bring down a curtain on the 2015 International Year of Light ( IYL ) with two laser shows projected onto landmark sites at Cape Town 's V&amp;A Waterfront .  We have noted with some concern the confusion that has been caused by the article published on Times LIVE entitled : Young African Leadership Initiative asks ANC to recall Zuma for ' betraying SA and party ' .  Spare Syria 's hospitals : world medical leaders  Blood is seen on a hospital floor in what activists say was shelling from forces loyal to President Bashar Al-Assad in Raqqa , eastern Syria.Image by : NOUR FOURAT / REUTERS  Fifty leaders in world medicine , including three winners of the Nobel prize , urged all combatants in Syria to spare hospitals , doctors and nurses , warning that the country 's medical infrastructure was being deliberately targeted and was now on the brink of collapse .  Save &amp; Share  Related News  " breaking Syria 's health-care system and making it nearly impossible for civilians to receive essential medical services , " they said in an open letter published by The Lancet .  " According to the WHO ( World Health Organisation ) , 37 percent of Syrian hospitals have been destroyed and a further 20 percent severely damaged . Makeshift clinics have become fully fledged trauma centres , struggling to cope with the injured and sick . According to the Violations Documentation Centre , an estimated 469 health workers are currently imprisoned , and about 15 000 doctors have been forced to flee abroad , according to the Council on Foreign Relations . Of the 5 000 physicians in Aleppo before the conflict started , only 36 remain . "  The letter described the attacks as " deliberate and systematic .... ( and ) an unconscionable betrayal of the principle of medical neutrality . "  " We call on the Syrian government and all armed parties to refrain from attacking hospitals , ambulances , medical facilities and supplies , health professionals and patients ; allow access to treatment for any to internationally recognised legal standards , " it said .  " We call on all armed parties to respect the proper functions of medical professionals and medical neutrality by allowing medical professionals to treat anyone in need of medical care and not interfering with the proper operation of health-care facilities . "  Signatories included former WHO chief Gro Harlem Brundtland ; Unni Karunakara , international president of Medecins Sans Fronti ? res ( Doctors Without Borders ) ; Michel Kazatchkine , UN special envoy for AIDS in Eastern Europe ; Mohammed Al Maadheed , president of the Qatar Red Crescent and vice president of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent ; Sir Michael Rawlins , president of Britain 's Royal Society of Medicine ; and Nobel winners Jules Hoffmann , Peter Agre and Harald zu Hausen from France , the United States and Germany , respectively .