Lion kills Ethiopian zookeeper
http://www.news24.com/Africa/News/Lion-kills-Ethiopian-zookeeper-20130916

related links  addis ababa - a lion at the addis ababa zoo attacked and killed a zookeeper on monday after he forgot to close the door to the inner cage where the lion sleeps , officials said .  the lion , named kenenisa after a famous ethiopian runner , killed abera silsay , 51 , as he was cleaning the cage .  " he entered cage number 10 where kenenisa lives and he forgot to close the door to the lion 's sleeping chamber ... finally , the lion came and he mauled him , " the zoo 's director general musie kiflom told afp .  the lion bit abera 's neck as guards tried to scare kenenisa off by shooting live rounds into the air and pounding on the cage 's roof .  it is the second time a zookeeper has been killed by a lion at the centre in the past 17 years .  musie said the zoo will step up its training for keepers after the attack .  " we have to update them on how to , how to keep them , how to clean them , " he said speaking near the cage where the attack took place .  kenenisa the lion was unharmed and remains in the zoo , which was closed on monday after the incident .  the addis ababa zoo is home to 15 endangered abyssinian lions , found in ethiopia and famous for their black manes .  the lions are kept in enclosed cages , but the zoo is set to move to a larger , grassier enclosure in the ethiopian capital in the next 13 months .  the addis ababa zoo was opened in 1948 by former emperor haile selassie , who established the centre to house his pet cub lions molla and lullu .  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our comments policy . should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so by clicking the ' report comment ' button to the right of each comment .  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi news addict ,  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .