Puntland storm kills at least 100
http://www.iol.co.za/news/africa/puntland-storm-kills-at-least-100-1.1605607

Puntland storm kills at least 100  APFile picture - Makeshift structures that displaced people live in are seen on the outskirts of Galkayo town , the capital city of Somalia 's semiautonomous region of Puntland . ( AP Photo/Malkhadir Muhumed )  Bosasso , Somalia - At least 100 people were killed when a tropical cyclone hit Somalia 's semi-autonomous Puntland region at the weekend , the government said on Monday , declaring a state of emergency and appealing for international aid .  The government said hundreds of people were missing after the storm made landfall on Saturday .  " Houses and livestock were swept into the ocean by the floods , " President Abdirahman Mohamud Farole told reporters in the capital Garowe .  " We urge United Nations aid agencies to assist the victims . As Puntland , we have established a committee to investigate the loss and damage . Electricity , communication and fishing boats were all destroyed . "  The government said preliminary information showed more than 100 000 livestock were lost and fishing boats swept away , endangering The storm was forecast to move inland and continue until Wednesday .  The storm hit the Eyl , Beyla , Dangorayo and Hafun districts along the eastern coast and across to Alula at the tip of the Horn of Africa . High winds and heavy rains caused flash floods and cut off roads to the coastal areas .  " I have buried 10 members of my family , the icy storm and rain killed more than hundred people here , " elder Hussein Abdullahi , 57 , told Reuters from Eyl .  " I have never witnessed such fatal cold . Some people were blown away and others died after their houses collapsed on them . Some people , and the animals they were looking after , are still missing , " he said .  Puntland spans the north of Somalia and has largely escaped the worst of the country 's upheaval of the last 20 years . Foreign powers advocating a loose federal political system in Somalia have held it up as a possible model .  The area is rich in energy resources and is 's authorities have said insecurity is growing and blame the Islamist militant group al Shabaab , which has been driven out of many regions that it used to control in the rest of Somalia .  In August , Puntland said it had cut ties with the central government in Mogadishu , accusing it of refusing to share power and foreign aid with the regions .  Reuters  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines