Numsa KZN will not protest e-tolls
http://www.iol.co.za/news/politics/numsa-kzn-will-not-protest-e-tolls-1.1605483

numsa kzn will not protest e-tolls  durban - the national union of metalworkers of sa ( numsa ) in kwazulu-natal has broken ranks with other cosatu affiliates , declaring it would not be taking part in tuesday 's nationwide protests against e-tolling and labour brokers .  further to that , numsa kzn also called for the resignation of cosatu president sdumo dlamini , whom it accused of failing to unite the trade union federation and of also being part of the faction that is trying to delay a cosatu special congress , which has been requested by some affiliates .  numsa and other affiliates requested the special congress in september to deal with , among other things , the fate of suspended cosatu general secretary zwelinzima vavi .  responding to these allegations on sunday , dlamini accused the numsa kzn leadership of being " regionalists " .  " the thinking by these people is that because the president of cosatu comes from kzn , then their struggle ( to remove dlamini ) would be much more effective if this call is championed no other region of numsa has made such a call . "  dlamini also lambasted the kzn regional secretary of numsa , mbuso ngubane , saying he had no business pronouncing on cosatu leadership matters " because he is not a worker but an employee of numsa who is supposed to be servicing the workers " .  ngubane had accused dlamini of trying to delay the special congress of cosatu by allegedly claiming that there was no money to hold it .  ngubane said this was an invalid excuse as accommodation and transport costs for delegates to cosatu congresses were paid for by affiliates .  " cosatu only has to pay for the venue and lunch for delegates . we are not even talking about a four-day congress here , but only a two-day congress , " said basil cele , the chairman of numsa in kzn .  dlamini , however , said after the request for the special congress was made , he wrote to the different cosatu affiliates asking for clarity on some matters .  " up until today not even a single numsa should consult with their national leadership on that matter . "  dlamini had wanted to get the proposed agenda for the meeting and some reports from the affiliates that would feed into the organisational report .  he said he was not reluctant to convene the special congress .  " i want a united cosatu because a divided cosatu would not do the workers any good because it would mean that the shield of the workers that is cosatu has been removed . "  meanwhile , dlamini said the stayaway would go ahead tomorrow as there was a " groundswell of support " from cosatu affiliates . " even at the kzn shop stewards council numsa stood up and through its regional chairman , basil cele , expressed support for the action . why are they now singing a different tune . "  but cele said his branch had decided against participating in the protests , saying there was very little time to mobilise .  he said the issue first came up at the provincial shop stewards ' council on november 3 . after consultation would be impossible to mobilise successfully .  comment guidelines  has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines