Steyn looking to shoulder victory at IGT Centurion
http://www.supersport.com/golf/sa-golf/news/131125/Steyn_looking_to_shoulder_victory_at_IGT_Centurion

Steyn looking to shoulder victory at IGT Centurion  In 2009 , major surgery to repair ligament damage to his right shoulder prevented Jerry Steyn to try for a Sunshine Tour card .  Having completed his PGA Teaching Professional Diploma at the end of last year , the Lydenburg golfer was ready to try again but fate intervened again . Steyn missed a step , tumbled down some stairs , put his left shoulder out of action and has spent the last 11 months campaigning on the IGT Challenge Pro Tour , waiting for the Qualifying School to roll around again .  Since September , Steyn has been playing the 12-event IGT Race to Q-School series to prepare and ending in a tie for lead in the 10th event at Centurion Country Club on Monday , has gone a long way to boost the 22-year-old 's confidence for professional golf 's most gruelling test .  Steyn dropped just one shot on his way to an opening six-under-par 66 to set the clubhouse target and he was joined by veteran IGT Tour campaigner Pieter Kruger South Africa 's top ranked amateur Christiaan Bezuidenhout stayed in touch with a 67 , and was joined by fellow amateur Teaghan Gauche and two-time IGT Race to Q-School winner , Robbie Lupini .  Steyn completed his PGA diploma at The Golf School of Excellence but moved to the Graeme Frances Academy earlier this year . He said his short game has dramatically improved , and with the improvement , his confidence is picking up , too .  Steyn collected two birdies on the front nine and a bogey at the 10th was a distant memory after a string of four birdies from the third hole and another at the ninth .  " I left some putts out there , but I 'm really happy with the result , " said Steyn . " I was expecting to shoot this kind of score and , although I left a couple of putts out there , I am glad I used my opportunities well . If I can shoot two more rounds in the sixties , I 'd be a happy man . "  Other players in the 69 and IGT Race to Q-School winner Zander Lombard on 71 .  Professional Iliska Verwey and amateur Jacqui Akers are in the pack at 75 , while Nedbank SA Disabled Golf Open champion Daniel Slabbert opened with a 77.