Andy Gilder from MACHINE wins Best Digital Strategist at the 2013 ...
http://www.bizcommunity.com/Article/196/16/103882.html

The country 's leading minds in digital judged Andy Gilder , MACHINE 's head of Group Digital Strategy , South Africa 's Best Digital Strategist at the 2013 Bookmarks in Cape Town on Thursday night .  Andy 's win has capped a year off that saw MACHINE win the AdReview Breakthrough Agency of the year award , as well as string of new clients , including : Nandos Digital , L'Oreal , Garnier , SAB Miller , adidas , Energade and Citroen .  " I 'm really happy to have something to put on the shelf after what has been a fantastic year for the entire agency , " said Gilder , ' ' The team has been putting in a phenomenal effort all year and even though the Bookmarks award has my name on it , no strategist would get anywhere without gifted creative teams to bring the strategies to life , great developers to make the digital concepts flawless and some truly ambitious client service team members to help our client 's objectives come to the forefront all the time . "  We are incredibly fortunate to have someone of Andy 's calibre heading our digital efforts and we are delighted to see him recognised by the Bookmarks after an exceptional year . The agency has grown up with digital at its heart and his award once again reinforces the importance of the medium in our integrated communications offering . "  Founded in 2012 , Publicis Machine is one of South Africa 's largest communications agencies with over 150 passionate employees , offering a unique combination of award-winning creativity , compelling consumer insights and leading digital capabilities .  LEGAL DISCLAIMER : This Message Board accepts no liability of legal consequences that arise from the Message Boards ( e.g. defamation , slander , or other such crimes ) . All posted messages are the sole property of their respective authors . The maintainer does retain the right to remove any message posts for whatever reasons . People that post messages to this forum are not to libel/slander nor in any other way depict a company , entity , individual(s) , or service in a false light ; should they do so , authors ' IP addresses to authorities if compelled to do so by a court of law .