Army recovers 20 IEDs planted in Samar village; NPA blamed
http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/652009/army-recovers-20-ieds-planted-in-samar-village-npa-blamed

MANILA , Philippines -- The military recently foiled an attempt by communist rebels to sow terror and bomb civilian communities in Samar with the seizure of 20 improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) that the guerrillas planted in Barangay ( village ) Mabini , Basey town .  Lt. Col. Miguel Ceballos , commander of the Army 's 20th Infantry Battalion ( IB ) , said the bombs were retrieved following reports from residents about suspicious-looking wires laid in the outskirts of Sitio Bega , Barangay Mabini in Basey . Troops from the 20th IB immediately went to the area and discovered the IEDs .  Lt. Col. Erwin Alea , public affairs officer of the Army 's 8th Infantry Division ( ID ) , thanked the residents for their vigilance and quick reporting .  ADVERTISEMENT  Alea quoted Maj. Gen. Jet Velarmino , commander of 8th ID , as saying that the seizure of IEDs only proved the NPA 's violent character .  " Guided by concerned residents in the locality , the soldiers went to the area and were able to recover 20 .  Alea said that soldiers continued to look for more IEDs in the area .  He said that IEDs could have been intended to inflict harm on the soldiers patrolling in the area .  " Further , the civilians ' safety is threatened as these ( IEDs ) can also destroy innocent lives and properties , " said Alea .  Meanwhile , Armed Forces of the Philippines Chief of Staff Gregorio Pio Catapang visited the troops stationed in Maguindanao and was given updates on the atrocities perpetrated by lawless elements .  The Army recorded a series of IED attacks on military outposts and civilian communities .  Catapang told his troops to intensify the haunt for lawless elements which have been trying to spoil the government 's peace process with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front .  Catapang said that his visit was like a homecoming to reminisce his younger days as a junior officer .  He said he saw action against enemies of the state in the hinterlands of Maguindanao and Cotabato .  " I received my baptism of fire as a young me . I am glad that peace and development have gradually taken over this land , " Catapang said .