'Staycation' in Makati
http://www.bworldonline.com/weekender/content.php?id=98237

Travel &amp; Tourism  ' Staycation ' in Makati  THE VERY idea of a " staycation " -- taking a vacation by staying relatively close to home -- is inviting for many people .  From a romantic holiday , to a **26;983;TOOLONG jaunt or a getaway with the family , a staycation saves travelers from the added stress that goes with planning and embarking on long trips .  In 2012 , Makati City launched the first " Priceless Makati Staycation " promotion to showcase a different kind of vacation and attract more people to stay in the city .  With the general public 's acceptance of the idea , Makati City brings back the promo this year .  In partnership with credit card giant MasterCard , the second run of the " Priceless Makati Staycation " promo is available in four global hotel brands in the Ayala Center -- Raffles Makati , Fairmont Makati , InterContinental Manila , and Holiday Inn &amp; Suites Makati .  " For a minimum two nights stay , those who will avail themselves of the promotion , high-speed Internet access , discounts on the hotels ' spa treatments , one free diner for every group of four diners in the hotel buffet restaurants as well as special welcome amenities , " Mel Ignacio , assistant vice-president of Ayala Land , Inc. , told reporters in a press conference last month .  On top of the exclusive hotel rates and packages for MasterCard card holders , Ms. Ignacio said participating guests are also entitled to other perks all year round such as a 40% discount on entrance tickets to the Ayala Museum for two , two passes to Circuit Makati 's Mountain Dew Skate Park , and buy-one-take-one City Kart Racing tickets .  " Another privilege that makes the Makati Staycation bigger and better this year is that it can be availed of for a longer period of time to cover special occasions such as Christmas , Valentine 's Day , graduation , and summer , " Ms. Ignacio said .  Depending on the season , different inclusions await those taking part in the promo , which will run until July 31 next year . four signature macarons as a turndown amenity at Raffles and Fairmont , while InterContinental Manila and Holiday Inn guests are entitled to Christmas baskets . Participants will also get four free tickets to the Circuit Makati Bazaar from Nov. 28 to 30 .  February will become even more romantic with couples treated to a round of Singapore Sling plus one chef 's snack platter at the Long Bar in Raffles and Fairmont and a complimentary bottle of wine at InterContinental Manila and Holiday Inn . They may also take advantage of two complimentary tickets to the yearly Art Fair Philippines in February .  Young graduates can be rewarded for a job well done with discounts on tickets to the popular Wanderland 2015 Concert at the Globe Circuit Events Ground , and celebrate with a complimentary upgrade to an Executive Suite at Raffles and to a Deluxe Room with Gold Lounge access extended to registered guests at Fairmont , and a bucket of beer and appetizer platter at InterContinental and Holiday Inn restaurants .  Beat the heat of summer by going on a movie date for two courtesy of Inn will treat their guests with a trip to their partner theme park . Guests can also take a dip in the pool while being served with signature Dalandan Guava Rose Lemonade plus one light snack for two at the Pool Bar in Raffles and Fairmont .  For walk-in guests who wish to dine at any of the hotels , it is best to come in groups of four to enjoy the 4 + 1 free promo . They may also avail themselves of a 25% discount on food and beverage at the Writers Bar and Long Bar at the Raffles , Caf ? Macaron and Fairmont Lounge at Fairmont , Prince Albert Rotisserie , Gambrinus Bar and Sol y Sombra at the InterContinental , and Citron Lobby Bar and OZ Bar in the Holiday Inn . A 25% discount for the hotels ' spa services is likewise extended .  " With Makati being the leading city for business , lifestyle , entertainment , and culture , and recently classified as the Most Competitive City , now is the perfect time to savor an alternative destination for a staycation.