Police, local fishermen arrest 26 dynamite fishermen
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/93453/police-local-fishermen-arrest-26-dynamite-fishermen

masinloc , zambales -- twenty-six fisherman from nasugbu batangas , including four minors , were arrested by the provincial joint task force on anti-illegal fishing thursday , the first arrest by the newly-established task force , 38.9 nautical miles west of masinloc zambales , for dynamite fishing .  nelson bien , chief of the regulatory and law enforcement division of the bureau of fisheries and aquatic resources said the arrest was made possible by the joint efforts of the task force and members of the local fishermen from zambales .  western luzon payao fishing association ( wlpfa ) vice president liza pineda said some 44 home-made explosives and five 5-gallon-containers of ammonium nitrate were confiscated from the fishing boat . pineda added that the same group was apprehended in bolinao , pangasinan recently . but this was denied by the boat captain , nestor pasaylo .  pineda , who owns and operates a large fishing boat , added that the fishermen could not do their illegal fishing in batangas so they are practicing their trade here in the provinces of zambales and pangasinan . the practice of illegal fishing by the batangas group has been going on almost daily for several years now . " we have reported their earlier incursions to authorities here but nothing happened . "  as the fishermen from batangas were being apprehended , another group of fishermen , also from batangas , were using dynamite fishing in the northern part of zambales , according to venus . " they operate simultaneously , and are using 30-tonner boats , " she added .  venus , whose family practices payaw fishing , said that the operation of the batangas crew is a double whammy to their livelihood because the illegal fishermen also use dynamite on already established but not yet harvested payaws .  " so they not only deplete our water resources , they also get their catch from our payaw nets which are about to be harvested , " venus explained .  " after blasting , the illegal fishermen would fill their 30-ton boat and leave , leaving us with only about 1 ton of dead fish , " venus complained .  bien said local authorities now . " once they see our boat , they would just leave , " bien said .  he explained that members of a newly created task force tricked the illegal fishermen , this time , by wearing civilian clothes and used small bancas lent by local fishermen .  " when we approached them , they had no time to fight back or flee , " bien said of the dynamite fishers .  the task force , according to bien , is composed of elements from the pnp , the maritime police , bfar , coast guard , navy and personnel from the provincial public safety .  aside from the explosives , gallons of ammonium nitrate , and about 1 ton of dead fish , the task force also confiscated blasting caps , detonator with safety pins , high frequency transceivers , and navigating equipment .  those arrested were brought to the provincial prosecutor 's office , friday , for inquest proceedings . charges of illegal possession and actual use of explosives , a non-bailable offense ; operating without license ; illegal use of fine mesh fishermen .