East edges West in first ever NCAA All-Star game
http://www.philstar.com/sports/2014/08/16/1358246/east-edges-west-first-ever-ncaa-all-star-game

east edges west in first ever ncaa all-star game  manila , philippines -- the first-ever ncaa all-star game was staged to achieve two things -- to showcase its best talents and generate funds for charity . it succeeded on both .  the east team , san beda 's cameroonian reserve arnaud noah , st. benilde 's fil-am gunner travis jonson and perpetual help beauty jian salazar starred in the 90-year-old league 's first all-star weekend before a sizeable crowd at the arena in san juan city saturday .  the east team composed of san beda , perpetual help , arellano u , san sebastian and jose rizal edged the west squad of mapua , lyceum , emilio aguinaldo , letran and st. benilde , 104-97 .  noah , a 6-3 member of the lions ' second team who replaced nigerian behemoth ola adeogun in the last minute , bested san sebastian 's jaymar perez to emerge the first ncaa slam dunk champion .  jonson , for his part , bested jose rizal 's philip paniamogan , 21-12 , to become the league john pinto also shared some of the spotlight after coming out the first ncaa all-star mvp after finishing with 10 points , four rebounds , three assists and two steals .  sportshub ( article mrec ) , pagematch : 1 , sectionmatch : 1  " he 's really pba-bound , " said east coach boyet fernandez of san beda referring to pinto , who is trying his luck in the pba rookie draft at the end of the month .  salazar , for her part , was crowned ms. ncaa 2014 , besting mapua 's katrina racelis and lyceum 's mharyel tapic , who ended up first and second runners up .  in the end , everybody , including losing participants in the ms. ncaa 2014 , slam dunk competition , 3-point shootout , the west squad of st. benilde , letran , emilio aguinaldo , lyceum and mapua , some known celebrities such as globalport team owner mikee romero and former pba slam dunk champion rey guevarra of letran all came out as winners as they did it for a cause .  " everybody came , everything we did here is for charity , " said management committee chairman paul supan of season 90 host jose rizal .  supan said the money from this event will go to orphan kids of hospicio de san jose , ncaa athletes who represent the country in international meets and ncaa personnel in need of financial assistance .  some 20 orphans of hospicio de san jose also went home with smile on their faces as they got to watch the one-day festivities at ringside .  noah 's highlight dunk came in the elimination when he jumped over a fellow african reserve to go away with a perfect 30 .  " this is not my first dunk contest because i 've been competing against my friends in the past , " said the 20-year-old noah , who will be eligible two years from now . " i 've also thought that the other players had nice dunks but tired out in the end . "  jonson , for his part , pulled off a surprise as he came out of nowhere to beat the league 's san beda ' anthoney semerad and perpetual help 's harold arboleda.