Former DILG chief asks why no action yet on Purisima
http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/641092/former-dilg-chief-asks-why-no-action-yet-on-purisima

bacolod city , philippines -- former interior and local government secretary rafael alunan has one piece of advice for philippine national police director general alan purisima in the wake of graft allegations against him : go on leave and clear his name .  alunan recalled that when he headed the department of interior and local government during the ramos administration , a police officer was asked to go on leave pending investigation of allegations against him .  but in the case of purisima , no action has yet been taken against the pnp chief even if charges of plunder , indirect bribery and graft have been filed against him for alleged unexplained wealth , including a mansion in nueva ecija and the remodeling of the pnp commander 's official " white house " residence costing p25 million .  advertisement  " i am wondering if anybody is home , since no action has been taken , " said alunan . " the general public is upset because no one seems to be minding the store . "  alunan said president benigno aquino , secretary mar roxas , as chairman of the national police commission , should initiate an investigation into purisima 's alleged ill-gotten wealth , and audit his performance and leadership .  " crime appears to be on the rise with sensational crimes involving active duty police officers . yet , there seems to be no palpable action from the napolcom to explain to the public what steps are being taken to clean house and professionalize the force , " he said .  but purisima appears to enjoy the confidence of his men in the field .  the police regional office in central visayas has declared support for their chief despite the charges against him .  " we , the men and women of police regional office 7 , strongly support the leadership of the current chief , philippine national police , as well as his staunch programs against all forms of criminality and against all illegal activities of our own personnel , " said chief suprtintendent prudencio tom ba ? as , pro-7 chief .  to show that his command was serious in weeding out the scalawags regional command 's 8,550 personnel in central visayas .  he said they have decided to submit themselves to lifestyle checks following reports that some policemen were involved in corruption and other illegal activities .  " we have already directed concerned divisions to beef up and hasten their investigation on those who may be guilty of ostentatious display of wealth and to those who might be proven to have ill-gotten wealth so that we may be able to file appropriate cases in court , " ba ? as said .  he said family members of police officers can also be subjected to lifestyle checks and their social networking accounts examined .