Anti-hazing task force formed
http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/641123/anti-hazing-task-force-formed

the red-gated house in barangay palanan , makati city , allegedly served as the hazing site used by the tau gamma phi fraternity for " welcoming " aspiring members . authorities were led to the property ollowing the death of alleged hazing victim guillo cesar servando . nino jesus orbeta and lyn rillon  manila , philippines -- malaca ? ang has created a new task force , involving at least eight government agencies , in an attempt to stop the increasingly fatal practice of hazing to initiate new members into fraternities and similar organizations .  the department of justice announced this week that the palace has constituted the anti-hazing inter-agency task force " to address the growing problem of fraternity-related violence , " such as recent cases involving students of de la salle university-college of st. benilde and the university of the philippines .  established through memorandum circular no. 68 , the task force is mandated to strengthen the implementation of republic act 8049 or the anti-hazing law with a view to preventing fraternity violence and prosecuting those caught engaging in it .  circular that " despite the passage of ra 8049 otherwise known as the anti-hazing law , hazing-related fatalities continue to occur . "  headed by justice secretary leila de lima , the task force includes the department of national defense , the department of interior and local government , the armed forces of the philippines , the philippine national police , the commission on higher education , the national youth commission , and the office of the deputy executive secretary for legal affairs at malaca ? ang .  " one hazing fatality is already one too many , " de lima said in a statement .  " for every such case , more lives are lost than just that of the victim . even the lives of those who are implicated are tarnished , and even the schools and the educational system itself suffer the blow . we can not abide another senseless death resulting from a misguided sense of brotherhood or sisterhood , " said de lima .  ahiatf was established some two months after the hazing death of dlsu-csb student guillo servando on june 28 hazing rites a few days later .  the doj said the task force will centralize all anti-hazing efforts of the government , with the mandate to " develop modes of coordinating and monitoring ... the implementation of programs , projects and activities to prevent hazing fatalities . "  the body will also " review and formulate policies , programs , and guidelines to strengthen the implementation of ra no. 8049 . "  as task force chief , de lima is " vested with full executive authority within the law , " including the power to " give direct operational instructions to any of the member agencies in the performance of their functions . "  her priority is to identify gaps in the implementation of the law or even the law itself through tapping " the experience and insights of members of the national prosecution service " to supplement that of investigators from the pnp and the national bureau of investigation , an agency under the doj .  de lima also intends to touch base with school officials , student organizations and student body officers .  the ( task force ) toward this problem is comprehensive -- not just concentrating on solving and prosecuting crimes that have already been committed , but also preventing such incidents from ever happening again , " de lima said .  " to do that , we welcome and , in fact , seek the support and contributions of all stakeholders , including those who are most intimately affected : the students themselves . i firmly believe that these incidents are preventable , and that 's what the task force will aim to prove , " she said .