Universal Robina, Danone form beverage joint venture
http://www.interaksyon.com/business/97810/universal-robina-danone-form-beverage-joint-venture

Universal Robina , Danone form beverage joint venture  MANILA -- Universal Robina Corp ( URC ) and the French maker of Evian water and Activia yogurt are forming a joint venture .  In a disclosure to the Philippine Stock Exchange , the Gokongwei-led URC said it entered into a deal with Danone Asia Holdings Private Ltd . Both parties will put up Danone Universal Robina Beverages Inc , which will be equally owned by URC and Danone .  " Through the joint venture , URC aims to diversify its line of beverage products , increase the sales of its various beverage products and expand its market share in the Philippines , " the listed firm said . The partnership is expected to start commercial operations by next year .  Danone Asia manufactures and supplies fresh dairy products , waters , early life nutrition , and medical nutrition in different areas of the world .  The joint venture firm will have an initial paid-in capital of approximately P266 million . The partnership will take effect after securing the necessary approvals .  URC tie-up with Calbee Inc , Japan 's largest snack food company , and a NZ$700-million acquisition of the owner of Griffin 's Foods Ltd , New Zealand 's leading snack food company .  With the Asean integration coming in full swing next year , URC is eyeing to strengthen its presence in the region .  However , acquisitions in Southeast Asia are hard to come by because they are normally smaller in size and may not add significant value to the company , said JG Summit Holdings Inc senior vice president Bach Johann Sebastian .  " The main criteria is anything that will give us increased market access -- whether it 's a new product , a new market , a new segment , a new category -- anything that gives us more market access in our existing or new markets in Southeast Asia , " Sebastian told reporters on the sidelines of the Philippine Investment Conference on Wednesday .  URC has full-scale operations in eight countries outside the Philippines , including China , and soon in emerging markets like Myanmar , Laos and Cambodia . Its US , Europe , Japan , Korea the Middle East and frontier markets in West Africa , like Ghana and Nigeria .