Blog Watch: How bloggers sparked online citizen advocacy
http://www.rappler.com/move-ph/ispeak/75927-blog-watch-citizen-advocacy

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  exactly 5 years ago today , november 24 , a small group of bloggers launched what they thought would be a 6-month foray into voters education . looking ahead to the 2010 elections , they just wanted to do their share for the country by using their respective online networks to spread information that would be helpful for voters . little did they know that what they began that day would help spark the growing flame that is now referred to as ' citizen advocacy ' .  noemi lardizabal-dado ( l ) and jane uymatiao ( r )  here is blog watch 's story as told by two of its co-founders , noemi lardizabal-dado and jane uymatiao .  noemi : ( on blog watch 's humble beginnings )  a bloggers ' meetup with mar roxas in 2008 brought bloggers as elections approach .  the philippine center for journalism ( pcij ) knew the importance of bloggers for the 2010 election . pcij invited me for a training seminar on " covering elections in the era of internet and automation " on august 26 , 2009 .  fate was on my side when a chance meeting with kristine mandigma , program director of vibal foundation , heard of my training and invited me with other bloggers to start a citizens ' portal for the philippine online chronicles ( poc )  jane : ( on the first blog watch meeting and how it got its name )  in 2009 noemi asked if i wanted to do voters education to take advantage of our readership network . noemi rallied other blogger friends to join , too . mind you , most of us were just food , travel , mommy , and tech bloggers .  we met up in october 2009 . someone suggested we give our group a name . noemi wanted the word ' blog ' since we were all bloggers . i contributed the november 24 , 2009 , " blog watch " was formally announced to the press . we did not know it then but blog watch would live up to the name we originally gave it -- bloggers/netizens watching what is happening to the country .  blog watch . some of the people behind blog watch at the group 's launching on november 24 , 2009 . all photos by philippine online chronicles  noemi : ( on the birth of the #juanvote community )  it was decided that blog watch would interview presidential candidates so we could scrutinize their platforms and vision for the country . getting appointments with presidential candidates was a challenge at first . using our own network of friends , we managed to invite 7 out of the 9 presidential candidates .  while conducting interviews , we simultaneously tweet , plurk ( works similarly to twitter but in 210 characters ) or post on facebook . it was not uncommon to see us holding up a camera in one hand while holding a mobile phone in the other for livestreaming .  for the first automated election through a collaboration with other netizens .  the media model in 2009 was mainly via mainstream media . so when we began writing , interviewing , livestreaming , and opening online video channels , media organizations asked us if we were ' citizen journalists ' or ' citizen media ' .  our real purpose for existence was not to bring news to the public ; that was for mainstream media to do . we were ordinary citizens , enabled by technology and social media with an online voice , so we could push for reforms , effect social change , and achieve social good . it meant taking a stand , to advocate . we were " citizen advocates " !  it is a continuing effort to stay credible , present all sides of an issue and write responsibly . blog watch has writers with views that span left- , right- , and center-of-field perspectives . mainstream media continues to be our source of information but our strength remains in the use of social media over different platforms .  noemi : ( on why been involved in )  during our launch , we announced to the press that the blog watch project is only for the duration of the campaign . after the elections , blog watch decided to continue on and shift its focus towards citizen empowerment .  despite the limited funding and other challenges , blog watch is here to stay . collaboration is taking place with project agos for our common goal to address climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction .  for citizen empowerment , we will continue to tap our #juanvote network and collaborate with the computer professionals ' union ( cpu ) votereportph project that utilizes the ushahidi platform and frontline sms .  senatorial forum . blog watch covers the rundown 2013 senatorial forum at the university of the philippines-diliman in february 2013  jane : ( on the future of blog watch )  a challenge before blog watch now is going beyond cyberspace to reach out to offline citizens . we hope to expand our #juanvote community . at the same time , it 's important to remain alert to new social media internet access .  it is difficult to say exactly how future technology will enable netizens differently on social media . but blog watch aims to remain as flexible as it was in 2009 .  there 's one thing we know for sure : we do what we do to create the kind of government we have always dreamed of for our children -- one that is transparent and operates with good governance . by helping empower all citizens to use social media for social good , we hope to live to see that part of the vision for a government " of the people , by the people ... " -- rappler.com  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .