US Military close to developing Hypersonic bombers
http://www.ndtv.com/world-news/us-military-close-to-developing-hypersonic-bombers-492993

us military close to developing hypersonic bombers  washington : us is close to developing a hypersonic bomber able to reach any target on the globe in under an hour .  the us military hopes to fly such hypersonic planes capable of moving at 20 times the speed of sound by 2016 , the nbc news reported quoting american officials working on the project .  the vehicle would be " recoverable " , us government officials working on developing the full-scale rocket plane said .  the hypersonic bomber codenamed the x-plane will travel at mach 20 ( roughly 20,900 kilometers per hour ) and the project is being carried out by the defence advanced research projects agency ( darpa ) , which has developed stealth aircrafts for us government for 30 years .  darpa has conducted two test flights of prototype hypersonic aircraft in the past two years . in august last year , the falcon hypersonic technology vehicle 2 ( htv-2 ) reached mach 20 , but only remained airborne for nine minutes .  the htv-2 was developed in conjunction with goal of creating a bomber able to reach any target on the globe in under an hour .  the us government has started a new programme called integrated hypersonics with an aim to develop ultra-fast fighters and the project is in response to the us military advantage being threatened by other nations ' increasing abilities in stealth and counter-stealth warfare .  " we do not yet have a complete hypersonic system solution , " said gregory hulcher , director of strategic warfare at the office of the under secretary of defense for acquisition , technology and logistics , said in a statement .  " programme like integrated hypersonics will leverage previous investments in this field and continue to reduce risk , inform development and advance capabilities . "  the programme 's research will focus on five key areas : thermal protection system and hot structures ; aerodynamics ; guidance , navigation and control ( gnc ) ; range/instrumentation ; and propulsion . thermal protection is a crucial issue for hypersonic flight , which is defined as anything over mach 5 . a vehicle flying inside the atmosphere degrees celsius - hot enough to melt steel . the project will also aim to improve design and manufacturing processes , in order to able faster production .