How to become rich: You must manage your own money
http://www.firstpost.com/investing/how-to-become-rich-you-must-manage-your-own-money-379781.html

How-to investment books are a dime a dozen . However , they all have a common failing : they tend to perpetuate the myth that investing is a breeze . They offer simple formulae like asset allocation or diversification or trite phrases ( Buy low , sell high , Never Try To Time the Market , etc ) to give the investor a false sense of empowerment .  Arjun Parthasarathy 's book will bring you down to earth with a thud . It does not offer you a quick-fix to get your sinking portfolio up and running again , but it does offer you sober advice . His philosophy is that only you can really make your money grow .  The book does not offer you a quick-fix to get your sinking portfolio up and running again , but it does offer you sober advice .  If you are lazy , and depend on tipsters , or brokerage reports , or mutual funds or portfolio management schemes to manage your money , you may indeed make some money , but that would be because you will end up making money for someone else - the promoters of the company you are investing in , the asset management company that runs your mutual fund , the insurance company whose ULIPs you have bought , or the broker who recommended a stock as a multi-bagger when it was heading south .  As Parthasarathy observes , " Every unsuccessful investment by an investor profits somebody else . " In short , the unwary investor makes a fool of himself by entrusting his money to others without even bothering to see if it 's working for him .  Parthasarathy , who runs a website called investorsareidiots.com and is also a regular contributor to Firstpost , makes it clear that investment is not something you can afford to sleep over . You may have selected a good fund manager based on his past track record , but you can not then head for the hills and hope that your money would have grown when you return .  Here are few tips from Parthasarathy that could prove useful .  How , for example , do you pick record or strong sales pitches ? The answer : find one with the right investing philosophy for your needs . If you are comfortable only with the Warren Buffett style of investing , find a fund manager who echoes the same ideas .  What , for example , is the most important question you need to ask yourself while investing in any avenue - whether it is fixed deposits or stocks or mutual funds or real estate ?  If your answer is that I have n't figured out what to do with my money , and hence it is in the fixed deposit , you 've flunked Parthasarathy 's quiz . Your money should be in an FD ( or real estate , or gold ) only because you think it is the right time to be in this asset and it will give you better returns than others .  And how do you respond to the time-worn clich that " Time in the market is more important than timing the market " . Whoever said that probably wants to take your money and hopes never to see In fact , timing is the key to all returns . As Parthasarathy points out , there are golden periods and barren periods for investing . Investors who bought the Sensex in the early to mid-1990s - the years immediately after reforms - saw poor ( or even negative ) returns for three- and five-year periods . Ten-year returns were best for those who bought in the late 1990s rather than the early 1990s .  Of course , no one can time the markets perfectly . But two simple ways to figure out if the timing is right are these . One is the Buffett principle : be greedy when the rest of the market is fearful ; and be fearful when everyone is sure the market is going to keep rising forever .  The second point is to listen to your own instincts . Parthasarathy makes the counter-intuitive point that you know best when the situation is right . For example , have you been getting good job offers , or are friends getting good pay hikes ? Do you see malls overflowing with buyers or just gawkers surpluses ? These would be usually the right time to buy .  On the other hand , when houses are not selling , and you have to work harder for promotions and increments , or when you hear of companies laying off people , it is probably a good time to think of selling - especially stocks .  Parthasarathy 's other bits of advice include these :  Do n't listen too much to pundits , or follow other investors . Following the herd is not a great way to make money . You are more likely to be caught in a stampede .  Do n't ignore what you see in front of you . When property is soaring like a rocket , you should check if a bubble is building . If a Rs 2 stock of a loss-making company suddenly becomes Rs 12 , it 's a big gain . But penny stocks may just be promoter-laid traps .  Simplify your investments , and do n't follow flavours of the season . There is no need to invest in everything from equity to mutual funds feel safe . What matters is which asset class you are most comfortable with and which ones you think you can easily track . Just spreading the money around makes it almost impossible to track , for each asset class has to be tracked separately .  The bottomline : You are the best judge of your investments . So do n't depend on anyone you ca n't trust .