Sanjay Dutt: Return of the Samurai
http://www.indiaglitz.com/sanjay-dutt-return-of-the-samurai-hindi-news-83851.html

Sanjay Dutt : Return of the Samurai  He spread honesty , told us to follow your heart and be true .. his jaadu ki jhaapi made everyone smile and forget their sorrows .. now the actor with a golden heart Sanjay Dutt is changing gear and coming back to his action ways ..  Dutt 's action fans are in for a treat as Sanjay does some unique sword fighting action stunts in a never-been-seen before avatar !  In Soham Shah 's ' Sher ' . Sanjay surprised everyone by finishing off before schedule .. the unit wala 's where of the opinion that it will take some time for Sanjay to adjust as Baba ( Sanjay Dutt name for his near and dear ones ) is coming back to hardcore action after some time .. but many didn , t know that fact that Sanjay had mastered the skill of using the Samurai sword ages ago , even before his first film Rocky ! Very little is known about this talent of the actor because he never got a chance to flaunt it . Dutt had sent Jr . Dutt to Japan to learn this form of martial art for a year even before his career began .  And today , years later when he was informed about the sequence in the film he put everyone at ease on the sets letting them know that it 's a piece of cake for him and that he would do all the stunts himself .  In fact Director Soham challenges any younger generation star to achieve the kind of perfection and body language that Dutt Saab has . " He has done a lot of cable work and sword fights . He used the Samurai with such ease and comfort .  We owe this to Sunil Dutt saab who had the foresight to send Sanjay to Japan to learn the art " , quipped the director . The action has been choreographed by action director Kanal Kannan who has done a huge body of work down south .  The unit members were heard saying , " We 've never seen Sanjay sir with this energy before .  He is striking back and , which is produced by Shree Ashtavinayak Cinevision Pvt Ltd is 95 percent complete with only a few songs and patch-work left .  The film also stars Vivek Oberoi , Humaima Mallik and Karishma Tanna along with Dutt.