Christians demand pilgrimage subsidy like Haj, Amarnath Yatra
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mangaluru/Christians-demand-pilgrimage-subsidy-like-Haj-Amarnath-Yatra/articleshow/15018709.cms

christians demand pilgrimage subsidy like haj , amarnath yatra  months after tamil nadu government announced financial assistance for christians wanting to visit the holy land of jerusalem , ludhiana-based christian united federation ( cuf ) have sought subsidy for the pilgrimage on the pattern of haj for muslims , amarnath yatra for hindus and shri nankana sahib yatra for sikhs .  tnn jul 17 , 2012 , 06.00 pm ist  mangalore : months after tamil nadu government announced financial assistance for christians wanting to visit the holy land of jerusalem , ludhiana-based christian united federation ( cuf ) have sought subsidy for the pilgrimage on the pattern of haj for muslims , amarnath yatra for hindus and shri nankana sahib yatra for sikhs .  cuf president albert dua said they would request the centre and state governments to provide pilgrimage facilities to christians to travel to places of religious significance .  some mechanism must be devised so that poor christians are able to undertake the pilgrimage at least to jerusalem , the birthplace of jesus christ , he said .  another from the government to collect money for the poor christians and arrange their pilgrimage to the holy land . " we want to get our brothers freed from the clutches of the expensive travel agents , " augustine said .  it may be recalled that tamil nadu chief minister jayalalithaa in december last announced government financial assistance to christians for the holy land pilgrimage . the scheme will be applicable to all sections of the christian community . initially , this assistance will be given to 500 christians this year , ' ' she had said .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not work together to keep the conversation civil .  most popular  the external affairs ministry on wednesday advised indian students seeking admission in two california-based universities to defer their departure till it gets a response from the us government on the issue .