Mhada colonies want Govt to revert to premium system
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/real-estate/mhada-colonies-want-govt-to-revert-to-premium-system/article3718030.ece

mhada colonies want govt to revert to premium system  over 9,000 housing societies in 56 mhada layouts in mumbai are seeking the government 's nod to go by its earlier redevelopment rules .  mhada ( maharashtra housing area development authority ) is the government agency which constructs residential buildings to house different sections of society . the sizes of mhada apartments , in general , vary from 180 sqft to about 450 sqft .  over four lakh people reside in these colonies , where buildings are dilapidated and beyond repair .  premium system  prior to 2010 , the government had permitted redevelopment of these mhada colonies on payment of 40 per cent premium for the additional fsi ( floor space index ) the buildings qualified for . the premium is on the ready reckoner rate ( guideline value ) .  this incentive was extended as poorer sections resided in the colonies and it was not possible for them to bear the redevelopment cost . it enabled developers to rebuild existing homes and also make their money by selling the free sale constructions are independent towers which are separated from the redevelopment portions .  there are cases of developers buying out existing tenants and also some where the lower floors are reserved for tenants .  fsi incentive  in 2010 , the rules were modified and an fsi of 2.5 was given for redevelopment . of this , one was for the existing buildings and the balance would be shared between the developer and mhada ( 0.75 each ) . the developer could sell his portion in the open market and mhada would get back apartments for its rental scheme .  in the present case , the tenants have sought 484 sqft units . this meant that more fsi would be consumed for existing buildings . consequently , as redevelopment calculations are based on fsi , mhada share would be higher and the developers ' share lower to that extent . this is unattractive to developers .  developers who had signed agreements with about 1000 of the 9000-odd housing societies are unwilling to take up work .  ramesh prabhu , chairman , maharashra societies welfare association , said for middle income group housing schemes .  conceding , that the incentive fsi of 2.5 would not conform to the societies ' requirement , he said the government would stand to gain rs 10,000 if it collected the premium instead .