Taekwondo boss held on fraud charge
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/268913/taekwondo-boss-held-fraud-charge.html

taekwondo boss held on fraud charge  bangalore , aug 2 , 2012 , dhns :  the city police have arrested the secretary-general of the taekwondo federation of india ( tfi ) , t praveen kumar , for allegedly issuing a fake sports certificate to a candidate , who used it to gain a government job .  the case , based on a private complaint filed by the bangalore president of the federation , k patel mune gowda in the 2nd additional chief metropolitan magistrate ( acmm ) court a month ago , was referred to the basavanagudi police station .  the private complaint alleged that praveen kumar , the national secretary general of the the official body representing the martial art sport in the country , misused his position and issued a fake certificate of participation in the commonwealth taekwondo championship , to a sportsman , singara mattu . the latter used the fake certificate to gain a government job with the punjab police department under the sports quota . the commonwealth taekwondo championship had participation from all commonwealth countries and was held  only gold , silver and bronze medal winners at the 2010 national taekwondo championship were eligible to represent india at the commonwealth championship . the three medal winners formed the official indian team at the championship . however , singara mattu 's certificate showed that he too represented the country .  the complainant furnished the attested list of all participants at the commonwealth taekwondo championship and also a copy of the fake certificate that singara mattu was issued by the federation , as appendix to the private complaint . the complaint also lists r d mangueskar , president of the taekwondo federation of goa as the second accused , whose son-in-law is singara mattu .  the 2nd acmm court had referred the case to basavanagudi police station for investigation . the police search the residence of praveen kumar at garadi apartments on k r road and also the federation office on mayor krishnappa road early thursday morning before arresting praveen kumar .  sources said the police seized about 200 unfilled but signed certificates of 2009 , 2010 and 2011.