The world's 10 most valuable banks
http://www.rediff.com/business/slide-show/slide-show-1-the-worlds-10-most-valuable-banks/20120802.htm

the world 's 10 most valuable banks  dbs bank ltd is a bank incorporated in singapore . it was previously known as the development bank of singapore limited , before the present name was adopted in july 2003 to reflect its changing role as a regional bank .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  bnp paribas s.a. is a french global banking group , headquartered in paris , with its second global headquarters in london . it was formed through the merger of banque nationale de paris ( bnp ) and paribas in 2000 .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  jpmorgan chase &amp; co. is a us-based multinational banking corporation of securities , investments and retail . it is the largest bank in the us by assets . it is a major provider of financial services , with assets of $2 trillion .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  citigroup inc or citi is a financial services corporation headquartered in manhattan , new york , us . citigroup was formed from one of the world 's and financial conglomerate travelers group on april 7 , 1998 . the year 2012 marks citi 's 200th anniversary .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  hsbc holdings is a uk-based multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in london , united kingdom . as of 2011 it was the world 's second-largest banking and financial services group ( and the largest based in europe ) and second-largest public company according to a composite measure by forbes magazine .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  barclays is a multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in london , united kingdom . it has operations in over 50 countries and territories across africa , asia , europe , north america and south america .  the world 's 10 most valuable banks  bank of america corporation is an american multinational banking and financial services corporation headquartered in charlotte , north carolina . it is the second-largest bank holding company in the united states by assets . bank of america serves clients in more than 150 countries and has a relationship with 99 per cent of @ @