No wardrobe malfunction, says Sunny Leone
http://www.rediff.com/movies/slide-show/slide-show-1-sunny-leone-denies-wardrobe-malfunction/20120824.htm

no wardrobe malfunction , says sunny leone  no wardrobe malfunction , says sunny leone  during her last visit to india , jism 2 actress sunny leone apparently made a fashion blunder when she wore a lacy black outfit with a yellow trim . apparently , the trim was mistaken as a wardrobe malfunction .  however , leone laughed off the incident and claimed that it was n't her underwear . ' lol this yellow you might see is part of the in lay of my dress ! ! ! haha its not my undies , ' she tweeted .  why shahid kapoor is missing from action  shahid kapoor has stayed away from gym because his next film does n't require him to look fit .  ' not worked out in 3 months cause i 'm not supposed to look fit for my next ....... missing the weights , ' he tweeted .  ' shoot starts in 10 days will b back on set after a while ....... every movie feels like starting all over again ......... and every time i na do with the character ..... i guess every actor is searching for that moment of truth somewhere between action and cut . i guess to find any part an actor has to look within n not outside if he wants it to be honest , ' he added .  shatrughan sinha makes his first public apperance after surgery  shatrughan sinha is recovering well after his bypass surgery last month . the actor was recently spotted at the play krishan vs kanhaiya .  daughter sonakshi shared a picture from the play and tweeted : ' took dad for the play kishen vs kanhaiya yesterday ... his first outing after the little stint at the hospital ! outstanding performances by mr . paresh rawal and the cast ... kudos to @akshaykumar and @grazinggoatpix for turning this masterpiece into a film #omg ! we loved it : ) '  omg is inspired by the play and is expected to release on september 28 .  tweet pix !  madhuri dixit , who walked the ramp for the grand finale at the india international jewellery week 2012 last night tweeted : ' at the jewelry couture week as the show stopper for pc jewellers . '  not many know that sridevi likes to paint as a hobby . the actress shared a picture of michael jackson that she made for her daughter jahnvi 's room . ' hello ! here 's a painting of my favourite michael jackson i did for jahnvi 's room . she says it 's the best gift ever ! ' she tweeted .  prabhu deva shared a picture of her friend vishnu deva who is choreographing for dabangg 2 with director arbaaz khan . ' my frnd n choreographer @ivishnudeva is choreographing for dabangg 2 , d most awaited film of d year.best of luck to him , ' he wrote .