43 illegals detected at Hatta and Lilong , Manipur
http://kanglaonline.com/2012/08/manipur-northeastexodus-43-illegals-detected-at-hatta-and-lilong/

43 illegals detected at hatta and lilong , manipur  manipur , imphal , august 30 : amidst the recent uproar over the exodus of northeast people from several south indian states in the fallout of the assam violent clash between bodos and illegal immigrants , the state police today found several illegal migrants from the muslim dominated lilong and hatta golapati areas of the state .  a reliable source informed that a combined team of the imphal west police and the thoubal police conducted an operation at lilong following credible information about the presence of a huge number of militants in the area .  it is learnt that even though the police failed to pick up any militants , several illegal immigrants who were unable to converse in the local language were found from several houses of the area .  the illegal immigrants inside the 2nd manipur rifles campus during their verification on thursday . photo ifp  altogether 19 myanmarese illegal immigrants including two women and three children were picked up from the area .  meanwhile , another 127 immigrants from the same operation , a source informed .  the 127 include 62 from west bengal , 32 from silchar and 33 from bihar .  several of them including the myanmarese illegal immigrants were found to have married local muslim girls and residing in rented accommodations .  following the detection of the illegal foreign immigrants from lilong area , the imphal west police teamed up with its imphal east counterpart and conducted a similar combing operation at the hatta-golapati area .  24 bangladeshi immigrants were rounded up from the operation .  all the migrants both from outside the country and those from other states were later brought to the 2nd mr compound and individually verified upon .  meanwhile , in a meet with several media persons , igp ( ops ) kailun said the migrants are being verified at the moment and action will be taken up against those who have entered the country without proper documents .  he added that the state police will continue its operation to detect illegal immigrants in other parts of the state .  it is likely that after could whip up communal flare ups in the state , the state home department could be taking up precautionary measures .  meanwhile , it may be mentioned that two stolen honda activa and a cbz motorbike were also recovered during the lilong operation .