Barking Dog needs more bite
http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/barking-dog-needs-more-bite/article3839919.ece

the script and scenes of the good doctor staged by a young group the barking dog called for better treatment  it 's a small but receptive audience at the alliance fran ? aise auditorium in chennai , where bangalore-based barking dog is performing neil simon 's the good doctor . the performance and the laughter are both on cue , with no real surprises . neil simon has become pretty much a staple on the theatre scene and his one-liners can usually be trusted to carry the day if nothing else suffices .  the good doctor , of course , is not a full play , but a series of early sketches that neil simon did as a sort of homage to anton chekhov " before getting on to bigger things " . the pieces are linked by the character of the writer ( chekhov ) and the skits are pieces he has written , a ploy that director n. rishi exploits rather well , with the writer , rapt in inspiration , busily jotting in his notebook and mouthing the dialogues even as the themselves are uneven in quality , a fact that neil simon has acknowledged , and this evening the unevenness of the script ( and its datedness ) is somewhat exacerbated by the inadequacies of the production . it does n't , however , take away from the performance of lead actor prateek prajosh , who is excellent as the writer . a natural , with easy movements , a mobile face and a nice way of delivering his lines , he does a great job . the rest of the cast is competent . rishi is funny as the sexton having his tooth pulled out by a quack , and mohan ram is best in his role as general brassilhov . clearly , a lot is expected from deepak hariharan , who plays some key roles -- the seducer charming the married woman ; the hobo willing to drown himself for three kopeks ; and the young boy hauled off to a prostitute by a concerned father who wants him to learn about the birds and the bees . not all of it works , though . deepak has too young that of a sophisticated rake and does the simpleton sneezer role better .  and what is that interlude where deepak and shraddha srinath play an ageing couple who meet on a park bench and break into song ? it looks suspiciously like it was dragged in to showcase some singing talent and is totally unconvincing . among the women , shraddha overdoes the haughty expression and one gets tired of it after a while ; while sindhu sreenivasa murthy as the shrewish woman who terrorises the bank manager overplays the role , coming across more as a demented creature than a scheming woman who uses tears and shrieks to telling effect .  but most of all , what one realises after an evening like this is the tragic paucity of contemporary indian scripts and plays . in 2012 , when there is cutting-edge work in indian cinema and other arts , why is urban english theatre revisiting clich ? d 18 century situations set in russia presented second-hand via an american playwright ? i would understand if it came from their parents , but not when it 's from two linchpins have actually given up enticing corporate careers for professional theatre .  in fact , the story of barking dog is vastly more interesting . vikram hemanathan tells me that he and partner rishi are confident that their company will soon be fully financially viable ; he speaks of how they started with all of rs. 5,000 ; he tells me they are already doing well enough to pay for actors and sets . this is impressive . now , let 's wait for this youthful team ( average age below 21 ) to soon come up with a relevant , funky , and way-out production . something tells me they well might .