Win-win in his sails
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/variety/winwin-in-his-sails/article3915100.ece

win-win in his sails  ravi mehrotra 's voyage from small-town kanpur to the heady success of global shipping is an inspiring one for entrepreneurs .  had not fate and ambition willed otherwise , ravi mehrotra would have been another executive in a shipping company . but the chairman of the uk-based foresight group , a conglomerate with interests in shipping , oil drilling and exploration , hospitality and now branded retail and footwear manufacture , says the burning desire to be a ship owner when he was in his early 40s , made him resign a lucrative job in iran and sail off to london to test the waters .  now 72 , a spry mehrotra is waiting in the lobby of the oberoi in delhi at the appointed time . the next day is a big one for him as delhi chief minister sheila dikshit is to release his book followed by a reading by journalist-writer mark tully . while the book catalogues mehrotra 's voyage , from a middle-class family in small-town kanpur to the top rung of the shipping world in entrepreneurs , including a ten-step guide which he calls ravi 's formula .  as tully writes in the foreword to the book , " he started as a naughty marine engineering cadet , was rusticated for ragging , went to sea and came ashore at a comparatively young age to have an adventurous corporate career in shipping . that included hazardous years in iran before and after the revolution . "  buying tea for iran  over dinner , where mehrotra orders for us some minestrone soup and a bottle of grover red wine , with grilled red snappers to follow , i ask about his tumultuous years in iran . there 's a twinkle in his eyes as he recalls his posting with the shipping corporation of india to work in irano hind shipping co , a joint venture set up to export iron ore from kudremukh to iran . the project , he says , was delayed by two years and irano hind had to find things to do to stay afloat . on his initiative , the shipping company became a trader , importing tons of ranks of the company , the iranian revolution resulted in a regime change with the shah deposed . he chose to stay on though times were tense and risky , he recalls . " i sent my children off to india to continue their education . " but , as happenstance would have it , the iranian government wanted an advisor on shipping . with permission from new delhi , mehrotra , then in his late 30s , was appointed principal advisor on shipping to the islamic republic of iran . " i also found from my few meetings with ayatollah khomeini that he recognised the importance of shipping to ensure the continuous inflow of petro dollars , " he says .  for the love of a ship ...  but he was restless ; " i did n't see light at the end of the tunnel . if the job of advisor had come to me when i was 50-plus , i would have been happy , but i was 42 . i could not see myself in the same job for the next 20 years . i had had not become a ship owner , which i wanted to before i retired . my wife said i was mad . but i told her to give me two years to try and , if i failed , i could get a job . at least i would have no regrets . "  so , in 1984 , he quit sci and moved to london . why the uk , i ask , and not back home ? " well , " he says candidly , " in india i would have been a failure . i had risen quite well and was earning well . but that did n't mean i could start a shipping company when a ship cost $10 million . " so , london it was , where finance was more readily available .  involved in ship broking , the initial years for the foresight group were tough . but his connections with iran provided the turning point . a risky assignment , he recalls , to evacuate oil from iran during the war years with iraq helped the company earn its spurs as time , in the mid-1980s , that foresight bought its first vlcc ( very large crude carrier ) .  but buying his first ship was n't easy . " i bought the ship in 1985 for $2 million in an auction from the spanish government , which was selling it due to a recession . then we invested another $2.5 million to refurbish it . this was funded by a german bank , which gave us 75 per cent of the money , and the rest was financed from our own earnings . we sold that ship for $5 million within six years . that is how the group built its equity , " he explains .  drilling for oil  his exposure to oil trading during the iran-iraq war got him to diversify into drilling . refrigerated ships followed . at the peak , foresight owned 25 rigs and ships . today , the group is more into oil drilling , deploying rigs in the arabian gulf and iran . three more rigs , being built in china , are on way . along with his hospitality arm , he says .  his entry into hospitality was also happenstance , he recalls . at a shipping conference in shanghai , a chance encounter with the mayor turned up an invitation to start an indian restaurant . he did , following up with five more across china , all called the tandoor . he also owns a chinese restaurant in delhi .  sailing in rough seas  but it has n't been roses all the way . the late 1990s turned quite tough for him . heavily invested in the reefer ( refrigerated ships ) business , foresight had raised a huge sum in the american bond market . with the shipping industry going through its cyclical downturn , the group was hard put to pay interest on the bonds . amer reefer , a group company , went through protracted turmoil for a few years till 2002 , when it emerged from us chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after it completed restructuring its bond issue .  " in hindsight , this was a miscalculation on my part , for in my eagerness to regain my worldwide standing lucrative bulk carrier business , which boomed shortly after we had invested in reefers , " he explains .  india connect  a group company , hallworthy shipping , is part of a consortium led by gail prospecting for oil in rajasthan . foresight has invested about $10 million . but hitting the headlines is the pavers foresight venture 's application for a $20-million investment as 100 per cent fdi in single brand retail .  mehrotra is emphatic that the 30 per cent local sourcing clause is important for india . " how will jobs be created in india if they do n't insist on that ? " he asks . the pavers england brand , which retails footwear in india , already sources 40 per cent of its requirement from india , so that 's not a worry for the group .  he says that despite all his years abroad , he has kept india ties strong . he 's been awarded a cbe ( commander of the order of the british empire ) by the queen for his services to shipping . what empire , you of the seas through which britain created its empire .