UN urges protection for elderly as world grays
http://asiancorrespondent.com/2012/10/un-urges-protection-for-elderly-as-world-grays/

un urges protection for elderly as world grays  tokyo ( ap ) -- the fast aging of japanese society is evident as soon as one lands at tokyo 's narita airport and sees who is doing the cleaning . young people tend to take such menial jobs in other countries , but here they are often held by workers obviously in the second half-century of their lives .  having the world 's highest percentage of older people is creating unique challenges for japan , but a report released monday by the u.n . population fund warns that they will not be unique for long . japan is the only country with 30 percent of its population over 60 , but by 2050 more than 60 other countries , from china to canada to albania , will be in the same boat .  the report urges governments to summon the political will to protect the elderly and ensure they can age with good health and dignity . discrimination toward and poverty among the aged are still far too prevalent in many countries , it says the problem is worse for women , whose access to jobs and health care is often limited throughout their lives , along with their rights to own and inherit property .  " more must be done to expose , investigate and prevent discrimination , abuse and violence against older persons , especially women who are more vulnerable , " the report says , calling on countries to " ensure that aging is a time of opportunity for all . "  " we need bold political leadership , " said babatunde osotimehin , executive director of the population fund . " aging is manageable , but first it must be managed . "  in some countries , such as latvia and cyprus , about half of those over 60 are living in poverty . and even in highly industrialized countries such as japan the elderly struggle to get some services .  hisako tsukida , a 77-year-old retired elementary school teacher in japan 's ancient capital of kyoto , is living what sounds like a dream retirement life , taking tai chi and flower arrangement lessons and visiting a but her current leisure followed many years of caring for her ailing husband and then for her mother . japan 's elderly often take on enormous burdens in caring for older relatives at home .  japan un aging  tsukida spent years trying to find a nursing home for her mother , now 100 , and finally succeeded about six months ago after a rare vacancy opened up . but now she wonders about the time when she 'll have to go through the same struggle for herself .  " i wonder if i could do this again when i 'm even older and need to find myself a place to go , " she said .  the u.n . report said that policy discussions of all kinds must include a consideration of problems facing the aging if mankind is to reap a " longevity benefit " from people 's longer life expectancies .  governments should build safety nets to ensure older people have income security and access to essential health and social services , it said . the report cited data from the international labor organization comprehensive social insurance .  aging is no longer solely an issue for rich countries . about two-thirds of people over 60 years old live in developing countries such as china , and by 2050 that figure is expected to rise to about 80 percent .  one in nine people -- 810 million -- are 60 or older , a figure projected to rise to one in five -- or more than 2 billion -- by 2050 .  even japan , the world 's third-largest economy , offers only meager social benefits , though government-subsidized services provide affordable household help and daycare in some areas .  neighbors and religious groups often help older people , and public facilities have been vastly improved from a few decades ago , with elevators and other handicapped access now the norm .  the discovery earlier this year , though , that an aged couple and their son apparently had starved to death in their home in a tokyo suburb highlighted japan 's own growing problems with poverty and unemployment .  growing numbers of people suffering from dementia pose another challenge with the disease in 2010 , a number growing about 7.7 million a year and costing about $604 billion worldwide .  provisions must be made for the infirm to ensure their basic human rights , the u.n . report says .  in many countries , including the united states , india , brazil and mexico , statistics show the elderly often pay more into pension systems over their lifetimes than they receive in return . meanwhile , as retirement ages are raised and benefits cut due to ballooning deficits , the elderly are paying proportionately more in taxes .  the report blamed a bias toward youth in mass media , which stereotype aging as a time of decline , for lowering expectations about life for older people . it noted that older people often live highly productive , enjoyable lives if they have good health and reasonable levels of income .  the report 's authors also argued against a prevalent belief that older workers should make way for younger job seekers , saying that way of thinking is based on the mistaken idea that there is a .  " more jobs for older people do not mean fewer jobs for younger people , " it says .