Homosexuality: Still CONSIDERED a crime in India
http://www.rediff.com/getahead/slide-show/slide-show-1-specials-homosexuality-still-considered-a-crime-in-india/20121001.htm

Homosexuality : Still CONSIDERED a crime in India  Homosexuality : Still CONSIDERED a crime in India  With the age-old Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code curtailed , has the attitude of Indian society to homosexuals changed ? Not much , says Shobha Warrier , after having spoken to several members of the country 's gay community .  It was during the British rule that Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code criminalised consensual sexual acts of adults of the same sex in private , terming it as " against the order of nature " . This law continued till December 2002 when New Delhi-based NGO Naz India filed a PIL challenging the Penal Code . Seven years later , in 2009 , the Delhi High Court struck down the provision holding that " it violated the fundamental right to life and liberty and the right to equality as guaranteed in the Constitution " .  But Section 377 continues to apply in the case of sex involving minors and coercive sex .  With the age-old section curtailed , has the attitude of a few high-profile people coming out in the open about their sexuality , the lives of ordinary people who are different in their sexual preference , have not changed a bit . At least that is what those I met said .  Their families still do not accept their sexual orientation , to the point of forcing them to marry and lead a bisexual life . Society ridicules and humiliates them in such a way that some even contemplate suicide for having been born different .  Babu shuffled in his seat and looked suspiciously at the recorder and asked , " Will you take my photo while I talk ? " I had to assure him several times that it was only a voice recorder and not a camera . Then he looked at the photographer and asked , " Will he take my photo when I talk ? " I had to tell him again that we would not take his picture without his permission .  " Sorry . I am scared . I do n't want anyone in my family to know that I am a I am leading . I can not even openly say what I want in my life . This is like killing my own identity and living as another person . "  Babu is not only afraid of hurting his family but he knows that if he came out openly about his sexual orientation , he would be ostracised by society . So , he lives a life that kills his mind .  ' The kind of torture , humiliation and disgrace I had to go through ... '  From the age of six itself , Babu was attracted to men . " I felt shy looking at other boys when young , like a girl , and I got teased badly for that . As I grew , I felt like looking at handsome men , and when I stare at some of them , they either physically abuse me or ridicule me . Initially I did n't know why I felt attracted to men . The kind of torture , humiliation and disgrace I had to go through all these years can not be described in words and performed quite well in all the examinations . Today , he is doing chartered accountancy after getting a first class masters degree in commerce , and also working and earning Rs.35,000 a month .  But is he a happy 25-year-old ?  " No , I can never be happy in my life . I did n't want to be born like this . Do you think I would like to be different ? But I am what I am , and what can I do about it ? I do not want to hurt my widowed mother , my sister who is married and my brother . So , I will never tell them that I am gay . I think they suspect I am not normal but we have never had any discussion on the subject . "  Babu feels the society in which he lives is such that it will never accept a man who has sex with men . " It is a horrifying thought for the people around me . I will be ostracised if anyone in my family or neighbourhood comes to Though employed and earning well , Babu contemplates committing suicide when depressed . " I have asked God , ' Why was I born like this ? ' I have cried in front of Him many times . And it is God that gives me strength to pass each day . I will live for some time to help my family tide over the difficulties and I am sure one day , I will commit suicide . "  Image : Men celebrate the court ruling over gay sex during a rally in Mumbai July 2 , 2009Photographs : Arko Datta/Reuters  ' My wife does n't know that I go to men to satisfy my desires '  The story of 32-year-old Suresh is even more pathetic . Having had no courage to disclose his sexual preference to his mother , he agreed to marry and now is the father of a girl child . " I am a bisexual now . I can not say how painful it is to lead such a life . "  He says that there are thousands of people like him in society hurt themselves daily .  " My wife does n't know that I go to men to satisfy my desires . You come to the Koovagam Festival ( an annual festival of transgenders and transvestites , which takes place in Koovagam village in Villupuram , Tamil Nadu ) and you will see thousands of men like me there . "  ( Yes , I remembered talking to a few men who were dressed like women in saris with shockingly colourful lipstick , bindi , bangles etc at Koovagam . They had told us not to photograph them as they had wives and children at home ! )  It was at the age of 15 that Suresh knew he was getting attracted to men . Naturally it was followed by self-denial and withdrawal . " I did n't know why I was like this . Was it a hormone problem ? Even today , I do n't know . As I grew up , I got worried . Though it gave me happiness , it worried me that I was having sex with other men . For a long time what I was doing was right or wrong . Even today , I do not know whether it is right . "  Suresh still can not forget the way he was attacked by some goondas when he was with a man behind the bushes one night . " I still get the shivers when I think of that day . I still carry the scar on my hand . I was attacked with knives and they shouted , ' Are you not ashamed of yourself having sex with men ? You are not a human being but an animal . ' And it hurt me badly . "  He says that the only change that has taken place in the last 20 years is that the police do not now clamp criminal cases on them . " But we are treated as criminals by both the police and society . There are 70 places in Chennai where men like us go to have sex , and the police are fully aware of these joints . Whenever we are spotted , even today the police harass us , scold us they used to tease us in very awful language . It was only because of the campaign against HIV/AIDS that the police have stopped using such language . "  ' Homosexuality is looked at as a disease by many even today '  Suresh also says that people like him are abused , both physically and mentally by people in their locality . " When I use the term ' abuse ' , it 's not only verbal . If a man in my locality comes to know about my sexuality , he blackmails people like me by asking for free sex and money . The culture of our society is such that I can not tell them it 's my right to be what I am . Even today , this is the condition of gays in Indian society . "  According to Suresh , in India people from the very rich class and the poor are more accepting about homosexuality than the middle class . In his case also , he had no courage to tell his mother and sister that he was a homosexual and that will never be able to accept it if I tell them the truth . It will also break their hearts . "  Suresh is waiting for the day society accepts homosexuals " the way cats , dogs , and birds are also accepted . " Today , he says , they face discrimination in families , society and even in hospitals .  " Even transgenders have more freedom in this society , but what about us ? Why ca n't we also be accepted the way they are accepted ? Though there are roughly around one lac homosexuals in Tamil Nadu alone , how many have the courage to come out in the open and say who they are ? Homosexuality is looked at as a disease by many even today , when way back in 1966 itself , WHO had declared that its not a disease . I blame society for the pain we are going through and not accepting us as we are and categorising homosexuality as a crime , disease and something very wrong . "