Salman Khan returns as larger than life hero in Dabangg 2: Arbaaz ...
http://movies.ndtv.com/bollywood/salman-khan-returns-as-larger-than-life-hero-in-dabangg-2-arbaaz-khan-628602

salman khan returns as larger than life hero in dabangg 2 : arbaaz khan  salman khan 's heroism will be re-created in dabangg 2  arbaaz khan , who is making his directorial debut with dabangg 2 , says he has recreated salman khan 's larger than life persona .  actor-producer arbaaz khan , who is making his directorial debut with dabangg 2 , says he has recreated salman khan 's larger than life persona for the 2010 action film 's sequel in order to relate with the audience .  arbaaz said the heroism of salman has stayed on with the audience and is remembered the most . " there is everything in the film that audience would expect from their dabangg hero . the film by itself has a larger than life setting while salman too would be seen as a larger than life character . you would see heroism and all that is chulbul pandey 's trait , " arbaaz told pti .  this particular image of salman developed with wanted and has been the mantra for his success in subsequent arbaaz , 45 , who is currently shooting the film in kanpur , says writing the script of dabangg 2 was a huge task because the first film has already set up the narrative for its sequel .  " the film 's basic construction is already in place and we have further built upon that . we know that people are going to expect something spectacular from the film and hence a lot of thought went into the script before the shooting began . " it is as simple as that , if i am a fan of dabangg then there are certain elements that i would like to see . so what you see in dabangg 2 is basically a reflection of what i would have liked to see in the film 's sequel , " he said .  the new series will see chulbul pandey ( played by salman ) moving to a different space and city and finding himself in the midst of much larger conflicts and confrontations . arbaaz says he was cautious of not bringing too many changes in the characterisation because most of " i have to be true to my earlier film and character . i can not go around making changes just for the sake of it . in terms of the film 's look , feel , ambience and essence of the character , we are going as per dabangg . however situations and scenarios have definitely changed , hence leading to a new story , " he added .  with sonakshi sinha opposite salman , prakash raj as the villain and arbaaz himself also featuring in it , dabangg 2 is set to hit the theatres on december 21.