Blood donation camp organized in city
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vadodara/Blood-donation-camp-organized-in-city/articleshow/16715311.cms

blood donation camp organized in city  on saturday , members of muslim community joined hands with hindus for a noble cause during a unique blood donation camp .  tnn oct 7 , 2012 , 11.07 pm ist  vadodara : on saturday , members of muslim community joined hands with hindus for a noble cause during a unique blood donation camp . the camp was organized as a part of shraddh paksha ( 15 days during which hindus do puja to repay debt to their ancestors ) . in hindu community , it is considered holy to donate something during the shraddh paksha and hence the blood donation camp was organized at gujarat public school ( gps ) .  " shraddh paksha is n't a muslim ritual , but still many of them turned up to donate blood during the camp . it was a great gesture from them and it proved that humanity still scores above everything in our country , " said dr r b bhesania , who runs a blood bank . about 186 people , of whom 17 were muslims gps and m p dental college .  gujarat home department 's principal secretary , s k nanda , who champions the cause of blood donation , was invited as the chief guest for the camp .  nanda has been rated as highest blood donation camp organizer in individual capacity in the state as he has been organizing such camps on the death anniversary of his father .  " donating blood keeps one healthy all life and also saves humans from dangerous diseases . in ahmedabad , the awareness about blood donation is far better . doctors in vadodara should now take initiative through such innovative ideas , " nanda told toi . the camp was attended by city police commissioner satish sharma , municipal commissioner ashwini kumar and bakulesh gupta who runs gps .  about 45 blood donations camps have been organized in the city as a part of shraddh paksha wherein about 2,300 donated blood . " donating something during this period is considered holy and it is said to please our ancestors . what better than donating blood and saving lives , " gupta added from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .