Guwahati Book Fair: Dictionary software gets good response
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/guwahati/Guwahati-Book-Fair-Dictionary-software-gets-good-response/articleshow/16714716.cms

Guwahati Book Fair : Dictionary software gets good response  Gaurav Das  The Xahaj Xandhan Axomiya Abhidhan or Easy Searching Assamese Dictionary , a software designed by a city-based programmer , Durlav Gogoi , has become one of the most sought-after products among intellectuals here at the Guwahati Book Fair .  TNN Oct 7 , 2012 , 10.17 PM IST  GUWAHATI : The Xahaj Xandhan Axomiya Abhidhan or Easy Searching Assamese Dictionary , a software designed by a city-based programmer , Durlav Gogoi , has become one of the most sought-after products among intellectuals here at the Guwahati Book Fair .  But even as 66,398 words have been incorporated in the dictionary , one of the biggest challenges Gogoi is facing is his incapability to find the exact English words for some Assamese words .  " Some Assamese words like ' ghar jowai ' , ' fehu ' , ' sapaniya ' and others have no immediate word in the English lexicon . Hence , finding out the exact English words for these words is proving to be quite challenging for me has provided a platform for Gogoi 's self-conceptualized software , it has received wide exposure among students and educationists , who are showing interest in knowing more about the software . It is one of the very few Assamese softwares available in the market .  " The software is generating interest among educationists , including professors and researchers of universities . For those who have a knack for writing have also shown interest in my software . I have also been contacted by the teaching faculty of Dibrugarh University and all this has given me much-needed impetus . I have managed to sell just over 50 units till now , but the enthusiasm it has generated among the people is priceless , " a proud Gogoi said .  He added , " Shantikam Hazarika , chairman of the Board of Secondary Education , Assam , also inspired me in my endeavour . He visited my stall and I showed him how the software works . He said it would prove helpful in educational pursuits . "  The software includes some of the most important features in tune with , syntax and pronunciation as well . It contains both old and new words . Apart from this , it also contains the names of indigenous trees and plants , birds and animals , fishes , insects , local proverbs , local culture and other important local aspects .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .