First ever spoken English training programme for Bihar mahadalit ...
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/First-ever-spoken-English-training-programme-for-Bihar-mahadalit-youths/articleshow/16712664.cms

First ever spoken English training programme for Bihar mahadalit youths  You should n't be shocked if the next time you meet a young Bihar Mahadalit ( the downtrodden ) who greets you with a good morning instead of a traditional salutation- Namaste !  TNN Oct 7 , 2012 , 07.40 PM IST  PATNA : These youths are in fact undergoing the first ever Spoken English skills Development Project sponsored by the government of Bihar and implemented by British Lingua , an institute of national repute working in the field of spoken English and soft skills development in the country .  The Spoken English project is designed exclusively for the Mahadalit youths , the poorest of the poor of the state in order to raise their employability skills and lifestyles under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar who has launched several schemes for this particular community who has been a victim of neglect and deprivation .  Mahadalit community consisting 21 castes long known for their social deprivation and backwards carved out by the Bihar CM a few years ago .  Shiv Bhushan his pleasure over the remarkable progress made in the English skills of the participants while inspecting the on- going pilot project .  " You have proved your determination and learning abilities in English which will enable you to compete with those in other more privileged communities " " added Mr Thakur while interacting with the group of students learning English in Madhubani district .  The district welfare officer , Madhubani Dilendra Kumar said : " It is very rewarding for us to see how these Mahadalit youths have begun to take advantage of the opportunity to learn spoken English skills . This initiative will e provide greater equality between the haves and have- nots " .  " I had never thought that I too would be able to communicate myself in English one day . I 'm grateful to both British Lingua and Bihar government for their role in providing me with an opportunity of obtaining English Skills " " said Tulshi Rani , one of the trainees .  " Now I can hold a conversation in English and feel that I 'm on a par with , yet another participant .  British Lingua project director group captain I B Thakur said " I 'm gratified to see these Mahadalit youths holding a conversation in the Queen 's language . Our aim seems to have been seemingly realized through the project . We embarked on a journey in 1993 , with a mission to take English to the lowest strata of the society " .  The three month long pilot project kicked off two months ago with a group of 80 students in a district split into two equal groups . The pilot projects done by British Lingua include : Patna , Vaishali , Muzaffarpur , Darbhanga , Samastipur , Madhubani and Sitamarhi  The training module offers four hour class daily except Sunday . These are divided into four equal sessions- sentence formation , group discussion , language activities and feedback . The **26;359;TOOLONG method adopted in the programme was developed by British Lingua 's think tank and has proved highly successful in imparting practical and easy to follow ways of using English in a variety of contexts .  The methodology is suitable for well known and respected training institute for its high success rates .  Each of the trainees was provided with a study kit which includes a set of six books , most notably the best seller ' Spoken English Kit ' by an author Birbal Jha who is also MD British Lingua . British Lingua has tied up with the Bihar Mahadalit Vikas Mission , a commission of the Government of Bihar for the project .  RELATED  From around the web  More from The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  From Around the Web  More From The Times of India  Recommended By Colombia  Comments  Characters Remaining : 3000  OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION  Share on Twitter  SIGN IN WITH  FacebookGoogleEmail  Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .