Why I love the new James Bond. Hint: Jason Bourne
http://www.firstpost.com/living/why-i-love-the-new-james-bond-hint-jason-bourne-512535.html

why i love the new james bond . hint : jason bourne  i was 12 years old when i first encountered james bond , a ripe age for grand pubescent crushes on fictional men . yet the seemingly irresistible package of sophistication , sexual charisma , and bravado left me cold . soon after , i picked up bourne identity and fell madly in love with another secret agent : jason bourne .  he was the ultimate anti-bond . where one man 's entire identity could be summed up in a single phrase -- " bond , james bond " -- the other did n't even know his name . that tormented quest for identity -- packaged in a tough-but-sensitive sexiness -- had an obvious appeal for someone hovering on the edge of adolescent anxiety .  my lack of interest in 007 was not mysterious either . by the 1980s , the bond version of masculinity was already several decades too old . with his tux-and-martinis chivalry and smirking air of superiority , he was a quintessential male fantasy , and an outdated one both on screen and in the audience . but for my generation of women , say , the sean connery version of macho read not as offensive but just silly . this was some uncleji version of machismo , like in diamonds are forever , when he jokes , " there is something i 'd like you to get off your chest " -- just before he rips off a woman 's bikini top and strangles her with it . eye roll !  we did n't need have to wait till 1995 for judi dench to tell us in goldeneye that he is " a sexist , misogynist dinosaur . "  this film image released by sony pictures shows daniel craig as james bond in " skyfall . " ap  okay , so it was all supposed to be good fun , the characters and plots writ so large as to border on caricature . but what truly grated was the old bond 's smug infallibility . he possessed no inner life , driven instead by a facile certainty of his rightness and inevitable triumph . it made 1970s amitabh bachchan playing the angry young man in deewar or zanjeer was a far more intriguing and appealing character than any roger moore outing . apples and oranges , perhaps , but the fact remains that the rise of the conflicted modern hero made the original bond quickly archaic .  old-fashioned sexism aside , world events have not been kind to bond either . the end of the cold war spelled an end to the moral certainties , blurring the lines between the good and bad guys . the post-9/11 war on terror outlined the limits of blind patriotism , and being in her majesty 's service no longer seemed like a good idea . maybe robert ludlum was on to something , after all .  it 's why history has been kinder to my old crush , the other jb whose movie versions have consistently outperformed the bond franchise , and by huge margins . it 's why the 21st century james bond is morphing into his darker twin . the first jason bourne movie released in 2002 , which was also the year of the worst it the bourne effect , starting with casino royale , the daniel craig movies have each tried to blend in jason-like elements : going rogue , disillusionment , emotional pain , inner torment et al . skyfall even has bond disappear , presumed dead , betrayed by his beloved m -- whose moral choices become an issue . but where bourne turned on his handlers , 007 has to remain true to the establishment . to do otherwise would be to cease to be james bond . the gadgets have disappeared but the girls remain , but in an oddly obligatory manner . you can almost see sam mendes thinking , " ok , have to do sex with hot chicks . how can i shove them in without making him look like an antiquated jerk ? "  skyfall also does its best to confront the bigger question : does james bond matter any more ? the movie is infused with the themes of aging and redundancy . do we need field agents in an era of technological warfare ? can " an old dog learn new tricks " ? between right and wrong is hard to discern ?  the movie 's answer to these questions relies on nostalgic affirmation . when m asks him , " where are we going ? " bond replies , " back in time . " so we jump into his old aston-martin and go back to his childhood home where he uses dynamite , a knife and a old hunting gun to defeat the enemy . but in retreating into his past , the movie also rewrites its hero . bruised , weeping , and stripped of his certainties , the james who emerges from its ashes is also no longer recognisably bond .