Munnar Thekkady tour package
http://www.yentha.com/traveler/packages/147

be greeted by the spectacular view of kochi.let yourself free in nature 's lap and witness tranquility and serenity at its best ! the breathtaking beauty of ' god 's own country ' never fails to reinvigorate your mind and soul . savor the mystical beauty of munnar and visit the eravikulam national park , mattupetty dam , devikulum and nyamakadu waterfalls . explore the exotic town of thekkady that boasts of the renowned periyar wildlife sanctuary . this package promises to leave you spellbound with an experience like never before !  day 1 : tour to cochin- munnar  you are greeted on arrival at the cochin airport /railway station and transferred to munnar tour about 145 kms away . enjoy the four-hour ride through the picturesque mountainous terrains of kerala . on the way , visit cheyyappara water falls - one of kerala 's most magnificent waterfalls . o n arrival at munnar check into hotel and enjoy , overnight stay there for a charged up morning  day 2 : munnar  in the morning after breakfast , you are out on a : devikulam- this lovely hill station is famous for its breath-taking locales and scenic spots . mattupetty dam - is a popular picnic spot with lot of visitors from all over the world . the shola forests and mattupetty are ideal for trekking and bird watching , as a number of species of birds are found there . echo point-it is a popular adventure tourism destination . kundale lake - is a major picnic spot located at kundala , kundala dam and aruvikkad waterfalls are other major picnic spots nearby . blossom international garden - is an attractive place with recreation and entertainment facilities for children and adults . rajamalai and eravikulam wildlife sanctuary - is one of kerala 's finest wildlife reserves in india , overnight stay in the hotel at munnar .  day 3 : tour to munnar - thekkady  after breakfast check out from the hotel at 09:00 hrs and kerala tour proceeds to thekkady about 120 kms away . enjoy the four-hour ride through a variety of spice plantations like cardamom , vanilla , pepper , etc . on arrival at thekkady check into hotel in the periyar lake . you will be lucky enough to see the wild elephants and the bison . the periyar protected area lies in the middle of a mountainous area of the cardamom hills , overnight stay in hotel at thekkady .  day 4 : departure  in the morning after breakfast , you would check out from the hotel and transferred to the cochin airport /railway station . en-rout , you can even enjoy waterfalls and inspiring tea plantations .  end of kerala tour .  as you go home let the everlasting memory of gods own country linger in your mind .