I miss doing masala movies: Tabu
http://www.firstpost.com/fwire/i-miss-doing-masala-movies-tabu-512390.html

I miss doing masala movies : Tabu  Mumbai : Happy with her " successful life " and " achievements " , Tabu takes pride in saying that as a Bollywood actress she deftly balanced mainstream and art movies but admits " missing " being part of masala movies . She says that she would like to do a " comedy " and wo n't mind teaming up with David Dhawan .  The actress , who will turn 41 next month , described her over two-decade journey in showbiz as satisfactory .  Tabu . Pic courtesy IBNLive .  " A lot has been achieved . I believe my life is a success story . I am fortunate enough to have achieved everything . I never thought I would be an actress ; so , each and every achievement looks big to me . It 's been a long journey . It 's great to see I have made something out of myself , " she said .  If she entertained Hindi-speaking fans with Hera Pheri and Biwi No 1 , she had a Coolie No 1 .  " I had a great time doing Bollywood and Telugu films and it 's been an interesting journey . I did only masala films down south and I really miss doing masala films . I love song and dance films in Bollywood . I love it and I miss it , " Tabu said .  Asked what kept her away from such films , she said she did n't want to be typecast .  " Once you do such films , people start thinking : ' Let 's cast her in the same kind of films ' . Then people will do what easily comes to them . They will say : ' She looks good in this kind of role ; so take her in this film ' . Once it works for you , people will use it as a formula . I ca n't keep doing that , I can not . I have to do something from which I get something , " Tabu said .  If she did mainstream films in Bollywood like Chachi 420 and Saajan Chale Astitva , Maqbool , Chandni Bar and Cheeni Kum , among others .  Tabu says she has managed to strike a balance between the two , adding : " I do n't think I am branded as an offbeat actress because people know the journey that I have made . When I did Astitva , I also did Hera Pheri . When I did Maachis , I also did Biwi No 1 . So personally I have maintained the balance very well . "  She will be next seen in Ang Lee 's Life of Pi , releasing Nov 23 , and is also doing Bijoy Nambiar 's " David " .  The choosy and reclusive actress is waiting for better scripts to come her way . " I am not taking up anything that is coming to me . In ' David ' , it 's a small cameo and I have done it just for the heck of it . I am not taking up anything because I do n't like everything that 's coming to me . "  After being part of critically acclaimed to work with David Dhawan , known for his light-hearted fun films .  " Of course , there is an aspiration to work with interesting people and established people . I want to work with David Dhawan . I would love to do comedy , " Tabu said .