What does Ferguson have planned for Scholes?
http://www.firstpost.com/sports/what-does-ferguson-have-planned-for-scholes-176112.html

what does ferguson have planned for scholes ?  in many ways , it was the perfect alex ferguson ploy . clever , sly , swift and surprising .  the return of paul scholes in a manchester derby will be something which will be told as a tale when current manchester united fans pass on their passion to those who are yet to come and to those who are floating in the limbo of being a neutral fan . in english football , you never remain a neutral ; you take sides and get recruited .  scholes ' comeback could be one such event , or it could just be one massive failure to squeeze out whatever talent the red-headed man has left in him , along with a stamina that he has kept warm due to his coaching indulgence .  of course , the argument of whether sir alex should really have recalled the former talisman or not flared up as soon as he lost the ball , eventually resulting in the cross that allowed sergio aguero to slip one under anders lindegaard , suddenly turned the colour of united 's kit at 3-2 .  and the obvious question is ... is ferguson 's move justified ?  but the more interesting one is what exactly made scholes return .  usually headstrong in his decisions and unwavering in his commitment towards himself and his family , there must be something that made him cross his own path .  with scholes being one of the most media-shy player to ever play in the premier league , this move has nothing to do with gaining attention . in fact , if there was one thing which must have stood between him and his manager 's wish , then it is his likeness for keeping out of the limelight . the silent predator .  even in the interview after his retirement , he was scarily quiet and composed in his answers , apart from a minor twitch he displays when he dislikes any question . when he was asked how he felt when xavi and zidane praised him for his midfield prowess , all he said was , " yea , it feels nice ' was barely caught on the microphone .  considering all this , there is certainly something he sensed at old trafford . and this must have been pretty grave , because the scot could have easily picked paul pogba or darren gibson or more importantly , just buy someone .  but he goes for this 37-year-old man who admitted that one of the reasons for retirement was a realisation that he was n't contributing enough to the team . he had receded into a deeper role over the last couple of years and united fans need to stop dreaming that he is here to score goals and win matches .  the more realistic expectation would be to see him come in the last 15-20 minutes and prevent them from throwing away the match in the abrasive manner they have been in against newcastle , blackburn and more importantly , fc basel .  in football terms , he will play the role of the anchorman , reliving at times what people say about him : " when scholes has the ball , the match seems to pause to incite a change in his midfielders ' attitudes . with scholes around , no one is guaranteed a place . more competition , better training , better performance on the field .  or maybe he has suddenly found the keys to his ever-locked jaws and is uttering some words which can encourage the youngsters into doing better . with fergie 70 now , and well-known for his flamboyant manner in which he treats the players , they need someone to talk to . a sort of a buffer between players and manager . that would be perfect but just does n't seem to fit the personality profile of scholes .  the wildest thought would be grooming him for the future . after coaching , getting into man-management is the next step . with not more than five years left in ferguson 's tenure , this is the ideal moment to groom someone from the midst . someone who has been there , done that .  imagining scholes standing on the touchline jumping up and down ? long shot , but football is as unpredictable as it gets theories to be concretely answered and maybe this article will have the same theme come the end of may , just a different headline and either lines of effusive praise or sullen criticism . maybe something on the lines of ' scholes screamer takes united to the top of the table ... '  united fans must have hardly celebrated after the final whistle of the derby . it was more of a sigh of relief , the kind when a man finally feels land under him after a stormy ride in the ocean .  core of the problem is that one pass which is lacking for the red devils . that one pass which wrong-foots the best defender , allowing the poaching talent of javier hernandez , danny welbeck and dimitar berbatov flourish . and to execute that one lethal touch , there are few as good as paul scholes .  even when the ball was laid up for him in the derby , you could see in that one fleeting second that scholes has lost none of his old touch . the perfect body shape , the the manner which has seen it rip the net out on so many occasions was proof enough that it does n't take a mere six months to lose your touch .  form is temporary , class is permanent .  similarly you could argue ... how does six months change a man so much ?  this move is also , in plain terms , a slap on the face of anderson . the brazilian midfielder was given a good run in the squad last winter and managed to establish himself with a string of fair performances for his team . but his return has seen him being used very carefully , with a certain caution to not elevate him to the status of primary playmaker at old trafford .  the return of tom cleverley is what united fans want the most , and with him being mentioned by the gaffer as their best performer in the initial part of the season , there is no way he will rush in the englishman . that leaves paul scholes to fill in the gaps .  the question hovering over as a follower of the game , one must enjoy it .  just as we savour every sip of a mature wine with its taste bonded in time , we must savour every touch of a genius .