Karnataka's iron ore export ban sinks planned facility at New ...
http://www.livemint.com/Companies/TuvuDByQsMJnSDYwWOFuMJ/Karnataka8217s-iron-ore-export-ban-sinks-planned-facility.html

bangalore : a lack of iron ore cargo due to karnataka 's ban on exporting the steel-making commodity has led to the termination of a rs 277 crore iron ore loading facility project at the new mangalore port . the facility was to be developed by sical logistics ltd .  the trust that runs the union government-controlled new mangalore port on monday decided to terminate the project after sical logistics applied for force majeure , citing the export ban for not beginning work on the project that was awarded in 2009 , said two members of the port 's board of trustees . companies can declare force majeure when they want to break contracts due to unforeseen circumstances such as natural disasters , fires or political events .  sical logistics had signed a concession agreement with the new mangalore port in october 2009 to develop and operate a 6.62 million tonnes ( mt ) a year iron ore loading facility at the port for 30 years . it won the contract after agreeing to share 37% of its annual revenue from the facility with the ore export has been banned by karnataka . the ball is in the supreme court , which has set up an empowered committee to look into the legality or illegality of mining in the state . nobody knows when the court will give its final verdict , " g.g. mohandas prabhu , a member of the board of trustees of the new mangalore port , said after the monday meeting . " we can not wait indefinitely and it is not going to help neither the port nor sical . "  mint could not independently verify what the port proposes to do with the bank guarantee of rs 13 crore submitted by sical .  " a decision on recovery of the dues , etc. , from sical has been left to the port chairman , " said k. tharanath shetty , another member of the port 's board of trustees . sical could not be reached for comment immediately . a spokesman for the new mangalore port declined to comment ahead of an official announcement .  on sunday , new mangalore port chairman p. tamilvanan said the port force majeure .  t.s.n. murthy , deputy chairman of the port , said the port had received legal opinion on the issue that said " both the parties should decide the future of the project mutually " .  sical had not spent a penny on the project , he said , adding the port can use the back-up area and the berth for loading other cargo . sical 's rs 500 crore iron ore loading facility at ennore port has been idling since it was opened in january 2011 for want of iron ore .  from 26 july , 2010 , karnataka banned exports of iron ore from the state in a bid to curb rampant illegal mining in the mineral-rich bellary-hospet belt . karnataka is the second largest producer of iron ore in the country and the ban has resulted in a significant decline in indian ore exports .  the ban clipped iron ore loaded by new mangalore port by half to 3.74 mt in the year to march 2011 from 7.06 mt in the previous year . between april and november , the port loaded in the year-ago period .