Alstom completes successful spinning of 3 Machines
http://www.constructionweekonline.in/alstom-completes-successful-spinning-of-3-machines/

alstom completes successful spinning of 3 machines reviewed by momizat on mar 30 . the chamera iii hydro project in india passed an important commissioning test on 5 march , when all three 77 mw francis vertical turbines being installed by alstthe chamera iii hydro project in india passed an important commissioning test on 5 march , when all three 77 mw francis vertical turbines being installed by alst rating :  alstom completes successful spinning of 3 machines  the chamera iii hydro project in india passed an important commissioning test on 5 march , when all three 77 mw francis vertical turbines being installed by alstom successfully completed the spinning at the rated speed of 333rpm in less than ten hours . the customer , national hydro-electric power corporation , was on hand to witness the test and commended the team on the achievement of the milestone . the test marks an important stage in the chamera iii project , where alstom is delivering the units on a turnkey basis from its vadodara hydro site . the project located in chamba district of himachal pradesh weeks . alstom was awarded the chamera iii hep contract by nhpc in 2007 . the scope of work included turnkey execution of electro-mechanical lot comprising of hydro turbines , generators and auxiliaries . alstom 's hydro unit based in vadodara has executed the works for the project . the alstom hydro unit at vadodara has witnessed continuous growth in the recent years , and will continue to play a vital role in addressing the increased demand for reliable , clean and affordable energy in india and around the world . so far , alstom 's hydro facility in vadodara has supplied major hydro power generation equipment for a total installed capacity of 4 gw for various projects in india &amp; abroad . with the company 's expanded production capabilities , alstom 's hydro manufacturing unit in vadodara expects to ramp up exports to more than 30% annually to markets all over the world . this move follows an investment completed last year to build alstom 's most advanced bearing production facility . so far two-third of the factory 's existing capacity caters to the india region while one-third of the alstom hydro india 's contribution to the hydro market in india , mr. alain spohr , unit managing director , alstom hydro india , said , " the spinning of all three machines in record time is a testimony of the exemplary work and coordination of the team . we at alstom are committed to provide cutting edge technological expertise and clean power generation solutions to our customers and partners and will continue to do so in the future as well . the hydro facility at vadodara is one of the three large hydro equipment manufacturing hubs for alstom along with china and brazil . this factory is fully geared to meet the needs of domestic and international projects . "