Review: Traintiles
http://www.allaboutsymbian.com/reviews/item/14533_Traintiles.php

News , reviews , information and apps for Nokia and Symbian .  Review : Traintiles  Score:88%  With stunningly clear animated graphics , Traintiles is an increasingly frantic ' arcade puzzler ' , seeing you rotating track segments in order to keep various trains running smoothly and headed towards their destinations . It 's immaculately ( and cutely ) presented and just about the only negative I can throw at it is that the levels get very hard very quickly - if you have a quick enough mind and quicker fingers then Traintiles is a must-buy .  From splash screen to ' About ' screen , it 's clear that Traintiles has been something of a labour of love by the developers . Atmospheric , attractive :  Traintiles has a similar overall arc to Angry Birds - the now well established packs of levels , set in different parts of the world , gradually getting unlocked as you progress . Curiously , only part of each area has to be solved , though this does happily get round the situation where you 're area until you get past the problem one .  The idea in Traintiles is that the track is made up of straight and curved ( and ' crossroad ' ) pieces , arranged on a grid . Tapping a track piece rotates it , as shown in the first of several tutorial animations below .  As you might expect , the first few levels are easy , introducing the track pieces and ways in which you 'll need to rotate them in real time , but things quickly get much harder . Multiple trains running at the same time , to multiple destinations , as shown below :  It soon becomes apparent that most central pieces of track need to be used several times per level in different configurations , usually with some split second timing to switch a curved section a split second after one train has used it and just before the next train needs it - to go in a different direction .  Add in more and more trains . Add in the possibility ( or , in the case of the puzzle designer . Add in ever more complex layouts , and you can see where all this is going . Classic game territory , that 's where .  As with other arcade puzzlers ( e.g. Flight Control ) , there 's a " Oh heck , here comes another train , I 'm still juggling two others as it is " degree of increasing freneticism , plus the enticing sight of a ' replay ' /'retry ' icon when you fail ( " Surely I 'll get it right this time " , etc . )  Within each level pack , you do have to solve every puzzle in order to unlock the next one , but a ) you can go back and replay earlier , easier levels if you want to remind yourself of some of the techniques that got you so far and b ) as mentioned earlier , other level packs get unlocked before you 've finished the current one , so you can simply jump packs for an easy change of scenery .  Talking of scenery , it 's immaculate here . Around the central used , trees wave gently in the wind , birds fly overhead , and more ... All this graphical action has meant that only the GPU-accelerated Symbian3 generation of smartphones are supported , but you can see where some of the processor power is going , at least .  There 's excellent sound too , with train ' chuffing ' ( of course ) , atmospheric musical jingles , wind noise ( appropriate to the pack being played ) , crash effects , brake squeals , and so on . It 's very immersive . My only complaint would be that there 's no volume control - sound is either on or off .  Perfectly implemented , great fun to play , even a ? 3 price tag does n't stop me recommending this as one of the very top Symbian game titles . If you have even the slightest interest in puzzle games then run , do n't walk , to buy Traintiles . It 's that good .