IN PICS: Supernova turned massive star 'inside out'!
http://www.rediff.com/news/slide-show/slide-show-1-in-pics-supernova-turned-massive-star-inside-out/20120330.htm

IN PICS : Supernova turned massive star ' inside out ' !  IN PICS : Supernova turned massive star ' inside out ' !  A new X-ray study of the remnants of an exploded star suggests that the supernova that disrupted the massive star may have turned it inside out in the process .  Using very long observations of Cassiopeia A ( or Cas A ) , a team of scientists has mapped the distribution of elements in the supernova remnant in unprecedented detail .  This information shows where the different layers of the pre-supernova star are located 300 years after the explosion , and provides insight into the nature of the supernova .  An artist 's illustration showed a simplified picture of the inner layers of the star that formed Cas A just before it exploded , with the predominant concentrations of different elements represented by different colours : iron in the core ( blue ) , overlaid by sulphur and silicon ( green ) , then magnesium , neon and oxygen ( red ) .  Click NEXT to read massive star that became the Cassiopeia A supernova remnant may have turned inside out as it explodedPhotographs : Courtsey : NASA , http : //chandra.harvard.edu  IN PICS : Supernova turned massive star ' inside out ' !  The image from NASA 's Chandra X-ray Observatory used the same colour scheme to show the distribution of iron , sulphur and magnesium in the supernova remnant .  The data show that the distributions of sulphur and silicon are similar , as are the distributions of magnesium and neon .  Oxygen , which according to theoretical models is the most abundant element in the remnant , is difficult to detect because the X-ray emission characteristic of oxygen ions is strongly absorbed by gas in along the line of sight to Cas A , and because almost all the oxygen ions have had all their electrons stripped away .  A comparison of the illustration and the Chandra element map shows clearly that most of the iron , which according to theoretical models of the pre-supernova was originally on the inside of the star , is now located near the outer further ...  Image : This spectacular image of the supernova remnant Cassiopeia A is the most detailed image ever made of the remains of an exploded starPhotographs : Courtsey : NASA , http : //chandra.harvard.edu  IN PICS : Supernova turned massive star ' inside out ' !  Surprisingly , there is no evidence from X-ray ( Chandra ) or infrared ( Spitzer Space Telescope ) observations for iron near the center of the remnant , where it was formed .  Also , much of the silicon and sulphur , as well as the magnesium , is now found toward the outer edges of the still-expanding debris . The distribution of the elements indicates that a strong instability in the explosion process somehow turned the star inside out .  This latest work , which builds on earlier Chandra observations , represents the most detailed study ever made of X-ray emitting debris in Cas A , or any other supernova remnant resulting from the explosion of a massive star .  It is based on a million seconds of Chandra observing time . Tallying up what they see amount of X-ray emitting debris has a mass just over three times that of the Sun .  This debris was found to contain about 0.13 times the mass of the Sun in iron , 0.03 in sulphur and only 0.01 in magnesium .  Click NEXT to read further ...  Image : A composite image of Cassiopeia APhotographs : Courtesy : NASA and The Hubble Heritage team  IN PICS : Supernova turned massive star ' inside out ' !  The researchers found clumps of almost pure iron , indicating that this material must have been produced by nuclear reactions near the centre of the pre-supernova star , where the neutron star was formed .  That such pure iron should exist was anticipated because another signature of this type of nuclear reaction is the formation of the radioactive nucleus titanium-44 , or Ti-44 .  Emission from Ti-44 , which is unstable with a half-life of 63 years , has been detected in Cas A with several high-energy observatories including the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory , BeppoSAX , and the International Gamma-Ray Astrophysics Laboratory ( INTEGRAL ) Journal .  Image : This X-ray image shows an expanding shell of hot gas produced by the explosion . This gaseous shell is about 10 light years in diameter , and has a temperature of about 50 million degreesPhotographs : Courtsey : NASA , http : //chandra.harvard.edu