Custodial deaths: Human Rights on the backburner in Maharashtra
http://www.firstpost.com/blogs/custodial-deaths-human-rights-on-the-backburner-in-maharashtra-260855.html

mahesh vijapurkar likes to take a worm 's eye-view of issues -- that is , from the common man 's perspective . he was a journalist with the indian express and then the hindu and now potters around with human development and urban issues .  custodial deaths : human rights on the backburner in maharashtra  recall the movie , the omen , starring gregory peck ? in it , so much revolves around 666 , the number of the beast , the anti-christ , of evil . personified as a young boy , evil had to be killed . there was much drama to it .  triple 6 is also the number of cases of another earthly evil -- custodial deaths in maharashtra -- according to the maharashtra state human rights commission ( mshrc ) website -- and pending at the end of march 2011 . more importantly , as many as 506 cases of custodial deaths , a gross human rights violation , are pending since 2001 .  the statistics of course are stale , since they are computed on an 1 n't be up soon after 31 march , just two days away . do n't expect them to be updated a few days thence either , for these things take time .  a dysfunctional , or in this case , non-functional commission , is a disrespect to the very purpose of upholding human rights . representational image . afp photo  as if the issue itself is not bad enough , the mshrc finds itself in a limbo : two of its members have retired and replacements have yet to be found . the chairperson quit a few weeks ago and there is no indication of a quick replacement . that is why there is no action in the mshrc right now , leave alone any dramatics . neither is there a sense of urgency in filling up the vacancies .  so what do the few officers who remain , do ? they carry out research , not an insignificant activity , but not incredibly important to a functional commission . they operate in the commission 's office , a single-storeyed , asbestos-roofed building near the chhatrapati shivaji terminus it has a comforting anonymity .  since 2001 , numerous complaints of custodial deaths have been brought before the mshrc each year , the lowest being 87 in the first year , going up to 250 in later years . that is a poor index of police attitude towards the citizens .  we do n't know the trend in the year that is concluding , yet , but according to unnamed officials quoted by the indian express on thursday , nearly 70 percent of the cases brought to the mshrc are of this nature .  the first crisis came when kshitij vyas , a former high court chief justice , quit suddenly and moved back to gujarat . then came two quick retirements , one of ts singarvel , and another of retired justice vg munshi .  there are two ways in which vacancies arise : one by sudden resignations , which adversely impact the commission ; and the other by retirements , which are foretold . but the maharashtra government did not foresee the retirements . it waited till the officers retired and then sent the to give a nod .  the choice of chairperson is yet to be made . according to the indian express , the panel -- that picks the chairperson -- comprising the chief minister , home minister , speaker of the legislative assembly and the leader of the opposition , has n't been able to find a successor . the wait could be long as the selection process is laborious , unless a miracle happens .  a dysfunctional , or in this case , non-functional commission , is a disrespect to the very purpose of upholding human rights . you can not have about 30 people streaming in , complaint in hand , seeking redress against the highhandedness of the state or its instruments , only to be turned away . it is their only grievance redress mechanism . that itself could be a violation ? perhaps it is .  if things worked according to law and humans got the basic minimum respect because of them , then the commission would not have been required at all . but given the number of complaints against the maharashtra police , the commission 's raison d'etre is in the number of cases brought before it : 45,769 since its inception till end-march 2011 . of course , 28,220 cases , that is more than half , were dismissed at the threshold itself . but that does not mean all complaints are frivolous .