Hero MotoCorp to invest heavily on long-term growth and expansion
http://www.zigwheels.com/news-features/news/hero-motocorp-to-invest-heavily-on-longterm-growth-and-expansion/13134/

Be the first one to know  Be the first one to know  Thanks for giving us an opportunity to serve you . We have successfully received your request .  Hero MotoCorp to invest heavily on long-term growth and expansion  Will invest an aggregate of Rs 2,500 crore on setting up the country 's largest state-of-the-art two wheeler R&amp;D Centre , building two new production facilities and ramping up operations at its three existing plants  RECOMMENDATIONS  Looking to quickly establish itself as an independent and fiercely ambitious mass market two-wheeler company HeroMotor Corp ( HMCL ) already set the ball rolling with the recent announcement of its alliance with Erik Buell Racing ( EBR ) for major R&amp;D initiatives that include developing a concept hybrid scooter among other long-term technological advances .  With the blueprints for future growth and prosperity made visible , the country 's largest two-wheeler manufacturer is now talking names and numbers and has clearly chalked out an elaborate plan in order to achieve maximum share in the country 's rapidly expanding two-wheeler market .  Unveiling a capturing the future potential of this price and efficiency focused two-wheeler market , Pawan Munjal , Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer , HeroMotor Corp Ltd said , " We have been moving with great speed towards giving shape to the vision that I outlined at the launch of our new brand identity in London less than a year back . "  Munjal went on to propose on behalf of the company that it will in fact invest over Rs 2,500 crore in setting up two new plants , expanding the capacity of its existing plants and setting up a state-of-the art Technology/R&amp;D centre spread over 250 acres at Kukas , Jaipur in Rajasthan .  For the first of the two new proposed production facilities , HMCL will be making an initial investment of Rs 400crore to completely set it up at Neemrana in Rajasthan . Construction of the plant will commence soon , and should be up and running by the first quarter of 2014 . The plant will employ over a 1,000 personnel and and will have an installed capacity of 750,000 units per annum .  pipeline will witness birth in Gujarat , courtesy a State Support Agreement ( SSA ) sanctioned by the state government . Expected to come alive in the quarter following the start of its Neemrana plant operations , the plant in Gujarat will have a total installed capacity of 1.2 million per annum with the potential to 1.8 million in the subsequent phase . The plant in Gujarat will employ over 2,000 people .  The two new plants , will be built ground up and together account for five dedicated production facilities for the indigenous bike maker 's operations in India alone . With this expansion the total installed capacity of the company would be touching more than nine million units in two years time , bringing its closer to ultimately achieving its dream production figure of 10 million units in the next five years .  Playing a major role in realizing this ambitious long-term goal for HeroMotor Corp will be a separate state-of-the art integrated R&amp;D centre at Kukas , for which the company has allotted an initial investment of Rs 400 crore . Spread over of a 250 to become the country 's largest two-wheeler R&amp;D set-up and will employ a total of 500 engineers .  Seeing the untapped production potential of its three existing facilities located at Dharuhera , Gurgaon and Haridwar ( Uttarakhand ) , the two wheeler giant also announced a substantial investment of Rs 500 crore for expanding operations and ramping up their current production capacities .  The news gets even better for personal investors in the company 's future , as it has now approved a proposal to merge Hero Investment Private Ltd . ( HIPL ) , the investment arm of the Hero Group , into Hero HMCL.