Public hearing on petro coke plant opposed
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/public-hearing-on-petro-coke-plant-opposed/article3490508.ece

public hearing on petro coke plant opposed  the movement for people-centred development ( mpcd ) has urged the government to reconsider its decision on conducting a public hearing on the establishment of a 4.60 lakh tonne capacity calcined petroleum coke plant along with a 25 mw power plant by sanvira industries of hyderabad at chaatametta in rambilli mandal of visakhapatnam district on june 6 .  mr j.v ratnam , an activist of the organisation , said the local people were strongly opposing the plant which would cause a lot of damage to the environment , and did not want the public hearing to take place as they did not want the industry .  he said in a press release that the environment impact assessment ( eia ) report prepared by the b.s. envitech of hyderabad did not contain all relevant information in full . the report said only sulphur dioxide would be released , but in fact the industry would release lead , mercury , and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which cause heavy damage to health . this unit and a 0.42 million tonne carbon the environment and a cumulative impact assessment exercise was needed since the petroleum coke plant was proposed in an area which already has many major and pollution-causing industries , he said .  management allays fears  in another press release , the management of sanvira industries ltd said that the fears that the factory would release mercury , lead and trace elements into the environment were unfounded . mr p. patanjali , general manager , said the petrol coke would only be densified in the process and there would not be any burning of it . only volatile matter would be taken out and the resultant product would be eco-friendly . it would be used mainly in aluminium industries , he said .  he said , " we are employing better technology and shaft kilns will be used . we have explained it to the residents of villages in the vicinity and made it clear to them all the stipulations laid down by the andhra pradesh pollution control board would be complied with . there is no cause for concern . even the material will be transported in completely . "