Sinking story: Why Air India's nightmare continues
http://www.rediff.com/money/slide-show/slide-show-1-why-air-indias-nightmare-continues/20120620.htm

Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  When 310 of Air India 's 450 pilots went on strike , they had little idea many of them would be pleading for their jobs to be given back forty days later . Yet , this is the latest imbroglio that the national carrier finds itself in .  The Indian Pilots Guild ( IPG ) , which represents Air India 's pilots , was completely blindsided by an unbending , newly appointed civil aviation minister , Ajit Singh .  It had no idea that Singh would simply pick up the gauntlet thrown to him and turn the tables on the hapless pilots .  Click NEXT to read more ...  Image : A Bharat Petroleum refuelling vehicle sits on the tarmac next to an Air India A320 aircraft.Photographs : Vivek Prakash/Reuters .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  Some industry experts view this Bismarckian stance in a positive light . " This is a welcome approach , since the established . Its dilution may lead to more agitations , as we have repeatedly seen in the past " , says Amber Dubey , partner and head ( aviation ) at KPMG , a global consultancy firm .  However , the strike seems to go beyond just the pilots ' obduracy .  More than anything else , it is a classic scenario of the complications that may arise due to a failure in troubleshooting a merger of two entities .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  Here is what lies at the heart of the Air India problem : Even as it had merged with Indian Airlines in 2005 , the pilots of the two airlines stuck to flying the aircraft attached to their respective airlines - wide-bodied ones used for international legs in the case of Air India , and the more short-haul , narrow-bodied ones in the case of Indian Airlines .  What threw the existing state of affairs into a loop was the entry of the much-hyped ' Dreamliners ' -wide-bodied Boeing 787s that promised to help turn things around ...  Image : The president of Boeing India poses in front of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.Photographs : B Mathur/Reuters .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  The match that lit the tinder hot was a proposal to get an equal number of Indian Airlines pilots and Air India ones to fly the twenty-seven planes that Air India would take delivery of in the next few years .  Yet , not all pilots are made equal , apparently . In Indian Airlines , it took six years to automatically become a commander .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  Someone in Air India who was waiting in the wings for , say , fifteen years to become commander would probably be enraged to see a six-years-in-service , narrow-body aircraft pilot , substantially junior to him , occupy his turf and deny him his long-awaited promotion .  With eight pairs of pilots required for each Dreamliner , as many as 432 pilots would have had to be trained once all the 27 planes were delivered .  Sinking story : brought most of the erstwhile Air India pilots their long-awaited promotions . In fact , Air India had hired pilots to handle the increase in the international fleet size , from 23 to around 50 after the induction of the new planes .  Industry observers say that the whole problem lies in the very genesis of the union of the two entities .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  " Airlines like Air France-KLM let the pilots function as separate units under one airline . The fact is that Air India 's merger was badly planned and operating it as two separate units under one airline would have solved many of the problems , " an industry insider , who does not want to be identified , says .  If the airline wanted to bring the pilots together under one entity , it could have asked them to choose from among several options that strived for parity .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  " When British Airways was formed after the merger of four airlines , the pilots were given an option to either become commanders on narrow bodies , or to become co-pilots on wide-body planes and then get promoted as commanders , " he says , adding that such a solution would have resolved all conflicts .  Apparently , IPG pilots say that this issue - of competing pilots and aircraft type - was to be resolved by the Justice Dharmadhikari committee .  But Air India pushed through a policy in October 2011 under which equal number of pilots of the formerly separate airlines would train for the Dreamliner . IPG objected , went to court , and lost .  Sinking story : Why Air India 's nightmare continues  For Air India , this impasse can turn out a sizeable blow , that too when the airline is witnessing a large increase in revenues and an improvement in operations .  A substantial part of the airline 's sales - Rs 15 crore ( Rs 15 million ) of the daily revenues of Rs 22 crore ( Rs 220 million ) - comes from international operations . This has been hit .  taxpayer . Therefore , it is now the government 's urgent responsibility to end the impasse , restore confidence in the airline and its staff and allow it to continue with its recovery before it manages to sink it , once again .