Triplicane residents oppose new construction in temple
http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/chennai/triplicane-residents-oppose-new-construction-in-temple/article3547899.ece

Agitated members have sent a letter to the Chief Minister 's cell requesting her intervention .  Residents of Triplicane , visiting devotees and heritage enthusiasts are at loggerheads with the Parthasarathy temple authorities . They are protesting against the ongoing construction at the temple meant to cover the parakara or circumambulatory passage .  In their opinion , the construction is impairing the architectural character of the temple and denying the faithful a venerable view of the gopura ( temple gateway ) and vimana ( tower over the sanctum ) . They are also upset with the temple authorities for insensitively replacing the old granite floor with a relatively polished stone that is proving inconvenient to walk .  Agitated members have sent a letter to the Chief Minister 's cell requesting her intervention .  The Parthasarathy temple is one of the important Vaishnavite shrines in the country and literary references about it are datable to the 6th century AD . The iconography of the main deities is older and historians think the six icons in the sanctum are a part of a much-older Vrsni not as old . The temple was regularly modified and new structures were added .  " The Parthasarathy temple , like other South Indian temples , has a distinctive character with a high compound wall , large towers , pillared halls and open prakaras . Over a period , people in power have insensitively modified this heritage structure . What is now left is the open space around the inner sanctum . If you cover the last of the open prakara with a roof , it would no more be a temple but a kalyana mandapam marriage hall with some shrines in it , " said an agitated R.K. Ragavendran , a resident of Triplicane and a regular at the temple .  C.R. Srinivasan , an 80-year-old devotee is unhappy with the authorities for changing traditions and history . " Old ways of keeping up the temple and taking people into consideration has changed for worse , " he said .  The temple officials in their defense explained that all aspects of worship and convenience were considered before starting the construction .  " We discussed with the is only a translucent roof , which will let in sunlight and provide shade at the same time . We often cover the space during festivals using temporary materials . This used to add to the cost of conducting the festivals . The new construction will reduce the recurring cost and help perform the rituals conveniently . Though the roof covers the prakara , a portion of it is left open so that devotes can view the gopura and vimana without hindrance , " they added .