Zagreb, Croatia: a cultural city guide
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/croatia/8351961/Zagreb-Croatia-a-cultural-city-guide.html

Alistair Fraser offers an essential cultural guide to Zagreb , a city with chic caf ? s , curious museums and a stunning cemetery .  Old Zagreb is so compact you can reach most of its cultural jewels on foot . Numerous museums and galleries , plus dozens of caf ? s and restaurants , are just yards apart in the Lower Town -- a grid of handsome buildings and parks reflecting the city 's standing in the Austro-Hungarian empire -- and in the cobbled streets of the hilly Upper Town . But with so much choice in Croatia 's capital you need to be selective .  Many will feel compelled to visit Mimara , the city 's famous art museum , but to me it is no different from many other great museums and I felt my time would be better spent at the Museum of Contemporary Art . This striking building -- in the otherwise bleak New Zagreb south of the River Sava -- is best visited at night , when it 's lit by fantastic light shows .  If Modernism 's , where among the narrow streets and magnificent buildings , you 'll find the Museum of Zagreb ( www.mdc.hr/mgz ) . I spent a couple of hours here absorbed in the city 's history , from the Iron Age and its growth as a trading centre to the turbulence of the communist era and the break-up of Yugoslavia .  Then I wandered past colourful St Mark 's Church to check out the zany Museum of Broken Relationships ( www.brokenships.com ) . Its collection of objects -- among them an axe , prosthetic leg and wedding dress -- has been donated by individuals . They 're all legacies of failed love affairs and many are accompanied by moving tales of broken hearts .  I felt like a drink after that , as my attic is stuffed with many such objects , so I cut across to Tkalciceva , lined with coffee shops and bars , and found Cica , a lively place where I joined the locals knocking back homemade rakija ( fruit-based brandies ) .  Did you know ?  The fountain pen was invented by Zagreb resident , I strolled around Bogoviceva and Preradoviceva square in the Lower Town , where seemingly everyone gathers at one of the many pavement caf ? s , especially Bulldog XL . If you want to mix with the beautiful set , tiny but trendy Eli 's Caff ? and the hip Velvet are the places to be .  For music , time your visit to coincide with one of the festivals -- in June there is C'est is d'Best and Croatia 's main event , InMusic , though live acts are easy to find year-round . Among the best venues are the B P Club ( Teslina ) and Bacchus ( Trg kralja Tomislava ) , a friendly jazz bar full of antique curios .  To blow away the cobwebs the following morning , I caught the 106 bus to visit Mirogoj , the city 's beautifully landscaped main graveyard . Its arcades , ivy-covered cupolas and church are stunning , as are many of the tombstone monuments , in an all-embracing cemetery where you 'll see Catholic graves , Cyrillic inscriptions of the Orthodox church , Islamic crescents stomp around Zagreb , it was the perfect place to wind down .