Anger at the banks is justified, Mervyn King says
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economics/8355475/Anger-at-the-banks-is-justified-Mervyn-King-says.html

the governor of the bank of england , mervyn king , has expressed " surprise " that the public is not more angry with the bankers who caused the recession .  in some of his strongest language yet , mervyn king today claimed the fall in households ' living standards was the fault of the financial services sector and he expressed sympathy that innocent families paying the price .  " the people whose jobs were destroyed were in no way responsible for the excesses of the financial sector and the crisis that followed , " he told mps on the treasury select committee .  in most aspects , he said , the economy had been on a sound footing before the crisis . previous downturns were often caused by inefficiencies or weak management and were useful opportunities to improve systems . " none of that applied in this crisis , " he said . " we had quite a successfully operating economy . "  the people who are now suffering " did not get bonuses of the scale people in the financial sector years ago but , as austerity measures kick in , " the cost is now being felt " , he said .  it remains " a big political problem " , he added : " i 'm surprised the real anger has n't been greater than it has . "  related articles  the governor also warned that living standards may be permanently lower than where they would have been under the economy 's trend growth rate before the crisis . " the evidence of the past is that the impact of a financial crisis like that persists for many years , " he said .  " you may not get it back for very many years if ever . it 's a very real hit on living standards . that 's why it is important to take the issue of financial stability very seriously . "  making a personal commitment , he said he hoped to ensure the banks would never again be allowed to cause a recession of the scale just witnessed . " i joined the bank of england 20 years ago today , leave until we have a framework in place to ensure we do n't have to go through this again . "  the governor also expressed concern about the legislation being enacted to give regulators greater powers on bank supervision . he said the bank would have preferred a new act rather than amendments to the existing law , but that he was satisfied with the current plans .  andrew tyrie , chairman of the tsc , suggested the current plans are a " pig 's ear of a legislative process " .  the biggest change to banking supervision , mr king said , would be to " move to a regime that does countenance failure but does not cause havoc with the financial system " . regulators will pay closer attention to whether a bank can fail safely rather than continue with " excessively detailed scrutiny of the big banks " .  his position appeared to contradict that of his future deputy governor hector sants , currently chief executive of the financial services authority , who has said the new regime would have a " low tolerance do n't think that 's where we are now . "