Brocket Hall, Hertfordshire: hotel review
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/hotel/81895/Melbourne-Lodge-Brocket-Hall-Hertfordshire-hotel-review.html

Fiona Duncan , Telegraph Travel 's hotel expert , reviews the best and worst of Britain 's hotels and bed and breakfasts , from boutique to budget , countryside to city centre . Follow Fiona on Twitter : @HotelGuruGuru .  Actually it 's not Brocket Hall . It 's Melbourne Lodge . It could be Brocket Hall , but only on certain nights .  Let me explain before I lose you completely . When Charles Brocket was famously jailed in 1996 for drowning his Ferraris in the lake as an insurance fraud , his estate , which by that time included two golf courses and a restaurant , was repossessed by the bank and sold on a long lease to an Asia-based hotel management company .  The 30-bedroom Hall itself , one of England 's most notable stately homes , with glorious interiors and a scandalous history ( it was the home of Byron 's infatuated lover , Lady Caroline Lamb , and the scene of octogenarian Lord Palmerston 's sudden demise while in flagrante on the billiard table with a chambermaid ) is a hotel . The estate 's hotel is Melbourne Lodge , fashioned from the old stables , with 16 rooms .  One longs , of course , for the hotel to be the Hall . The rooms in the stables are lovely , as well as affordable , but the Hall is a truly magical place , unchanged since Brocket 's departure , with family photographs , superb furniture that includes the second-longest dining table in the country and walls hung with important pictures . It 's a surprise and a delight , but only for those who can get inside .  And if you are staying at Melbourne Lodge , you ca n't get inside . You can be a guest member of the golf club , wander around the parkland , centred on romantic Broadwater Lake , with its swans and bridge and weeping willows , and take advantage of the exquisite cooking of Michelin-starred Phil Thompson in his Auberge du Lac ( and his equally accomplished breakfasts in the clubhouse ) but there remains a palpable sense of being cut off from the main action . as its gracious , classical bedrooms suggest , there surely needs to be a welcoming reception in the building , instead of collecting your key from the golf club and walking alone up the hill to find your room .  Improvements are being made : limited room service has been introduced , and complimentary newspapers delivered to the door , but the present arrangement makes it very difficult for non-golfing guests to feel the privilege of being part of a private , timeless , historic estate .  Until , that is , they stroll to the Auberge du Lac , a charming , diminutive former hunting lodge with a waterfront terrace and stately willows dramatically lit at night . It reminded me of one of my favourite restaurants in France and all through dinner I could n't shake off the feeling that I was back in the Auberge de l'Ill , that venerable , family-owned , three-Michelin-star waterside restaurant in Alsace , which is the best compliment I can give .  What do I mean by " Brocket Hall on certain nights " ? The innovative new management " throughout the year when guests can sleep , drink champagne and dine on Thompson 's food and breakfast in the Hall itself , for ? 385 for two . First to book gets the best of the bedrooms upstairs , but all are exceptional .  Value for money TTTTT Room prices are very fair ; ' Evenings of Elegance ' , too  Access possible for guests with disabilities .  Country walks  Stanborough Park is 126 acres of countryside park and lakes just outside Welwyn Garden City . With its boating lake , walks , children 's play area , fishing , organised nature trails and more , it 's also ideal for families . For further information on the park and beyond , visit hertfordshire.com .  Where to visit  Hatfield House ( 01707 287010 ; hatfield-house.co.uk ) , three miles away , is one of the 10 Treasure Houses of England , which means it is an " architectural masterpiece surrounded by beautiful parklands and gardens " . The gorgeous Jacobean home of the Cecil family is all that and more , although note 23 .  Local pubs  The Red Lion ( 0871 223 8000 ) at Ayot Green in Welwyn is the best pub around . Or try the charming Brocket Arms ( 01438 820250 ; brocketarms.com ) , a tiny 14th-century pub in Ayot St Lawrence . Its restaurant is presided over by Andrew Knight , who trained under Angela Harnett and Gordon Ramsay . The Beckhams are apparently fans .