William Craig
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/obituaries/politics-obituaries/8478572/William-Craig.html

william craig  william craig , who died on april 25 aged 86 , was the leader of the militant ulster vanguard movement and was vanguard unionist mp for east belfast from 1973 to 1979 .  during the early years of direct rule in the province , craig earned a reputation as a protestant firebrand and launched his vanguard party in demagogic style , demanding a return to protestant majority rule in stormont and no " sell-out " to the roman catholic minority in the province .  william craig  in 1974 craig was the main organiser with the rev ian paisley of the loyalist strike which brought down the five-month-old power-sharing assembly on which the british government had pinned so much hope . craig was regarded as the link with the paramilitary groups , the uda and the uvf , which gave the strike its muscle .  but the next three years saw a dramatic shift in his position . in 1975 he split fellow unionists over their refusal to continue talks over power sharing with the mainly catholic sdlp . he condemned considerable effect behind the scenes to prevent the strike closing the crucial ballylumford power station at larne and to get larne harbour reopened .  craig 's change of heart won him little credit in the unionist community and he promptly lost more than half his followers . after winding up ulster vanguard in 1978 , he won the official unionist nomination for his constituency , but was defeated at the 1979 general election by the democratic unionist peter robinson .  there was , though , an underlying consistency in craig 's change of heart : unlike politicians such as paisley , he had been prepared to negotiate with roman catholics provided they shared his belief that northern ireland could be governed effectively only by local politicians , either through independence or some form of devolution within the united kingdom . a strong pro-european , he saw the german federal model as offering the best hope of a lasting solution .  related articles  william craig was born on december 2 1924 at cookstown , co tyrone , the son of a bank manager , and educated at dungannon was declared he volunteered for the raf and served as a rear gunner in bomber command . after the war he studied law at queen 's university , belfast , and was articled to a solicitors ' firm , qualifying in 1952 . with a bank loan he bought into a small practice at lurgan .  in 1960 he was returned to the stormont parliament as unionist member for larne . appointed chief whip in 1962 , he became minister for home affairs in 1963 , minister for health and local government in 1964 , minister for development in 1965 and minister for home affairs again in 1966 .  but as the unionist leadership , under captain terence o'neill , came under pressure from the british government to respond to catholic demands for civil rights , craig became increasingly outspoken in his opposition to any concessions .  his biggest political decision during this time was to ban the civil rights march in londonderry in october 1968 because he believed it was a " nationalist/republican parade " . the march went ahead , but the police stopped it and proposals for constitutional reform , craig was dismissed from the cabinet in december 1968 .  he soon became the focus for grass roots opposition to the unionist party leadership , fomenting dissent among the party 's rank and file . after o'neill 's resignation , he fought both james chichester clark and later brian faulkner for the unionist leadership .  craig 's rhetoric during this period became increasingly uncompromising . in 1969 he prophesied civil war if the government 's proposals to restructure the ulster special constabulary were accepted ; as the prospect of direct rule came nearer , he called on the people of northern ireland to " use every means to defend their constitutional rights " .  after direct rule was imposed in 1972 , he resigned from the unionist party because it had accepted the government 's white paper proposals on power sharing . in october 1972 he survived an attack by a provisional ira gunman who fired at him while he was driving to his solicitors ' practice at lurgan .  soon afterwards he announced that he and his followers were prepared to british heritage .  craig was the guiding light behind the revival of the ulster loyalist association in 1969 which in 1972 became the vanguard movement , a non-party association of loyalist organisations committed to the preservation of the northern irish constitution . he gathered popular support in a series of rallies , telling his supporters that they should build up dossiers on the " enemies " of northern ireland " because one day , if our politicians fail , we will have to liquidate the enemy " .  ulster vanguard stayed inside the unionist monolith until stormont was prorogued and the northern ireland assembly elections of 1973 , when it was converted into a party . by the time craig entered parliament at the february 1974 general election , however , he was beginning to have second thoughts .  as the province teetered on the brink of civil war , he began to recoil from the plans of loyalist paramilitary groups to take control of the province and declare independence . he had also become convinced that some form of coalition with catholics was the only way to 1975 he broke ranks with the united ulster unionist coalition ( uuuc ) in the northern irish constitutional convention over its decision to break off power-sharing talks with the sdlp , and went on to offer the sdlp seats in a national emergency coalition . he had become convinced during the talks that the sdlp was " prepared to support the state of northern ireland as long as the state has the support of the majority " .  craig 's volte-face was immediately attacked by his fellow unionists , notably ian paisley and enoch powell . the following month , nine out of 13 vanguard colleagues on the constitutional convention resigned , and craig and his followers were expelled from the uuuc .  after losing his seat in the 1979 general election , in 1982 craig stood unsuccessfully for election to the devolved northern ireland assembly as the sole representative of a revived vanguard party .  despite his erstwhile reputation as a rabble rouser , in private craig was a humorous and tolerant man , able to get on with politicians of every political hue .  he woman whom he had met on holiday in majorca . they had two sons .