David Dunseith retires from BBC NI's airwaves
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-13361742

David Dunseith retires from BBC NI 's airwaves  Veteran journalist David Dunseith has announced he is retiring from BBC Radio Ulster .  His career in broadcasting has spanned four decades .  He is most closely associated with BBC Radio Ulster 's Talkback programme , which he presented for almost 20 years .  Through some of the darkest days of the NI troubles and in the absence of a local political assembly , the programme provided a forum for debate where no other existed .  During his time on Talkback he secured an interview with Helen McKendry , the daughter of Jean McConville , one of the so-called disappeared , who were murdered by the IRA .  " Poignant interview "  Ms McKendry broke a 22-year silence to talk about the day her mother was taken away .  In a House of Lords debate , the late Lord Fitt described it as the most " poignant interview " he had ever heard .  David also confronted other aspects of the dark past in a measured interview with the Brighton has been his ability to engage with ordinary people , allowing them to express both their grief and their anger , that listeners have found most compelling .  Image caption Former NI Secretary of State Mo Mowlam was one of the many politicians interviewed by Mr Dunseith  " Consummate broadcaster "  He ends his career in BBC NI , presenting Seven Days on Sunday afternoon , finishing as he began - still talking about the issues that matter to the people of Northern Ireland .  Peter Johnston , director BBC NI said : " David is a consummate broadcaster who steered the Talkback programme through some of the most difficult and contentious years in our society .  " He conducted interviews in a searching and robust manner , always with courtesy and good humour .  " He can be rightly proud of his contribution to the success of one of our flagship programmes . "  Kathleen Carragher , head of news said : " David Dunseith was passionate about Talkback and its audience .  " His grasp of Northern Irish society was unparalleled humour and in depth knowledge of Northern Ireland and he will be sadly missed from our airwaves . "  Journalist Mike Philpott , is a former contributor to Talkback , who worked with David for many years .  " In my 34 years in journalism , I 've met a small number of people who have taught me something fundamental about the business , " he said .  " David Dunseith is one of those people .  ' Gentleman '  " He is a master of his craft , who always questioned things and never took anything at face value .  " But underneath the tough interviewing style there was always a gentleman , and someone I 'm proud to call a friend . "  Image caption The subjects on Talkback ranged from the deadly serious to the just plain deadly  A regular listener to Talkback , Elizabeth called to recall their memories of his time on the airwaves .  " I just rang up to wish David all the very best , and I hope he has a long retirement , gentleman .  " I think he gave the ordinary Joe Bloggs in the street a voice . "  Mr Dunseith began his career in UTV , anchoring the nightly news programme UTV Reports .  He later joined BBC Northern Ireland as a political journalist and analyst , presenting the television current affairs programme Spotlight and chairing programmes dealing with major events such as elections .  He became a regular contributor to Talkback when it first went on air in 1986 and in 1989 he became its presenter .  He won ' Local Broadcaster of the Year ' in 1993 at the Sony Awards for his role in the programme .