Court orders trader to repay customers after failure to deliver goods
http://www.channelregister.co.uk/2011/06/27/court_orders_trader_to_repay_customers/

other users get refunds after shipments were months late  a court has ordered an online trader to refund consumers to whom he failed to deliver goods or pay refunds , the uk 's consumer protection regulator the office of fair trading ( oft ) has said .  pavan arora must payback customers who bought technology products via websites he operated , the cardiff county court ordered , according to the office of fair trading ( oft ) . the oft had brought action against arora for violating consumer protection rights , it said .  customers on arora 's websites who paid extra for " same day delivery " or " express delivery " services did not receive the products as promised , the oft said . customers who then tried to cancel their orders often had their requests ignored and many did not receive refunds , it said .  arora 's practices breached his responsibilities as a trader under uk consumer protection laws , the oft said .  " it is important that consumers can rely on internet retailers to supply products oft 's goods and consumer group , said in a statement .  " this court order should send a clear message to traders that they must comply with their obligations under consumer law or risk court proceedings , " freeman said .  businesses are generally required to supply goods within 30 days or pay a refund , but specific legal protections apply to internet shoppers under distance selling regulations .  the regulations state that in most circumstances online purchasers have the right to cancel an order they made within seven days of the goods being delivered and receive full refunds .  online customers are also entitled to a full refund for goods or service not provided by the date agreed with a business , the distance selling regulations say .  " these websites had persistently failed to supply goods or to provide a refund after payment had been taken , or to allow cancellation rights to be validly exercised , " the oft said in a summary of the case .  " in light of this , the oft identified a number of breaches of consumers , " the oft summary said .  in addition to the online trading laws , arora also breached eu laws on his accessibility to customers and the uk 's consumer protection from unfair trading regulations , the oft said . those regulations prohibit unfair , misleading and aggressive business practices .  the oft has responsibilities for ensuring traders comply with consumer regulations under the requirements of the uk enterprise act . the act gives the oft the power to enforce measures that ensure businesses ' compliance .  the oft first took action against arora in june 2010 after customers complained about purchased goods they had not received , the oft said .  computer software and hardware products bought from websites belonging to arora 's firm , arora tech limited , had not been sent to customers or were supplied several months late , the oft said .  the oft forced arora to sign undertakings committing him to refund customers , it said .  the oft asked the cardiff county court for a court order requiring arora to pay refunds after becoming aware that arora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @