Exclusive extract from 'Blind Descent'
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/8594567/Exclusive-extract-from-Blind-Descent.html

exclusive extract from ' blind descent '  rabid rats , deadly gases , insanity ... all this and more awaits those daring to explore earth 's last uncharted territories : the supercaves  image 1 of 4  march 2003 : bart hogan in cheve 's upper entrance chamber . the entire chamber could have contained three boeing 757s . behind hogan , the floor dropped steeply to a large portal through which strong wind roared -- the first sign of the cave 's ultimate size.photo : frank abbato  image 1 of 4  august 2004 : supercaves ' vast dimensions are one reason expeditions remain underground for weeks . surveying is another . every foot of new cave must be surveyed and recorded , as julia timoshevskaja is doing below 5,000 feet . photo : alexander klimchouk  image 1 of 4  october 2004 : bernard tourte passing through the nightmarish , 330- foot long way to the dream meander . discovered earlier by dmitry fedotov and denis kurta , it was ugly and tortuous , but it opened the way to the , courtesy of alexander klimchouk  bill stone , half a mile deep and three miles from the entrance in a mexican supercave called cheve , did stop . red-and-white plastic survey tape hung across the narrow passage he had been ascending . the message , scrawled on notebook paper , was affixed to the tape at chest level . afloat in the cave 's absolute darkness , the white paper burned so brightly in the beam of stone 's headlamp that it almost hurt his eyes . the time was shortly before midnight on march 1 1991 , though that made no particular difference -- it was always midnight in a cave .  stone , a hard-driving man with a doctorate in structural engineering , stood 6ft 4in tall and weighed 200lb . he was one of the leaders of an expedition trying to make the last great terrestrial discovery by proving that cheve was the deepest cave on earth .  with three companions , he was halfway through the gruelling , two-day climb back to the surface from the cave 's deepest known point , something like the note and tape had been strung just before the expedition 's camp two , where four others were staying .  related articles  they explained to stone what had happened . at about 1.30pm , a caver from indiana named chris yeager , 25 years old , had entered the cave with an older , more experienced man , peter haberland . yeager had been caving for just two years , and going into cheve was , for him , like a climber who had been on only small vermont mountains suddenly tackling everest .  seriously concerned about the younger man 's safety , a veteran , elite cave explorer named jim smith sat yeager down for what should have been a sobering , 30-minute lecture : do n't go into the cave without a guide , carry only a light daypack at first , learn the route in segments , get " acclimatised " to the underground world before going in for a long stay . the warnings fell on deaf ears . yeager started his first trip with a 55lb pack , planning on a seven-day arrived at the top of a cliff that had been named the 23-metre drop because it was exactly that , a 75-feet free drop from lip to pit that had to be rappelled . by supercaving standards , where free vertical drops hundreds of feet long are common , this was little more than a hop down . haberland went first , completing an easy rappel without incident . at the bottom he detached his rappel rack ( a metal device resembling a big paper clip with transverse bars ) from the rope , then moved away to avoid any rocks yeager might dislodge .  above , yeager was wearing standard descent equipment , which included a seat harness similar to those used by rock climbers but beefed up for the heavier demands of caving . a locking carabiner ( an aluminium loop , about the size of a pack of cigarettes , with a hinged " gate " on one side ) connected the harness to his rappel rack , and the rappel rack connected him to the rope . the rope wove through the rack 's bars , a ladder . before going farther , yeager had to transfer his rack from the rope he had been descending to a new one .  he made the change successfully , leant back to begin his rappel , and realised instantly that something was wrong . the rope did not stop his backward-tilting motion . instead , he kept going , as if tipping over backward in a chair . somehow his harness had become separated from the rappel rack , which was still attached to the rope .  instinctively , he lunged to grab the rope and the dangling rappel rack , but his heavy pack made any self-arrest impossible . he fell so quickly that he did n't have time to scream .  as the 21st century began , we believed that every one of the earth 's great discoveries had been made . almost a century had passed since peary first trod the north pole and amundsen the south . hillary and norgay summated mount everest in 1953 , piccard and walsh dove the deepest ocean in 1960 . armstrong and aldrin walked on the the death of discovery were wrong . when the third millennium rolled round , one last great terrestrial discovery did still await : the deepest cave on earth .  the subterranean world remains the greatest geographic unknown on this planet -- called " the eighth continent " by some . mountains , ocean depths , the moon , and even martian scapes can be -- and have been -- revealed and explored by humans or our robotic surrogates . not so caves . they are the sole remaining realm that can be experienced only first-hand , by direct human presence .  there are also rabid bats , snakes , troglodytic scorpions and spiders , radon , and microbes that cause horrific diseases . kitum cave on the kenya-uganda border is believed to be the birthplace of the ebola virus .  by the turn of the 21st century , three crucial things had become clear about the last great terrestrial discovery . first , it probably would be made within a decade . second , it would almost certainly be made in one of two places : the abkhazia oaxaca , in southern mexico . finally , one of two men would lead the discovery team . they were the ukrainian alexander klimchouk and the american bill stone , both of whom had devoted their lives to the search for the bottom of the world .  klimchouk and stone fit nicely into a list of opposites . klimchouk is short and slight . stone is towering and muscular . klimchouk is quiet , self-effacing , and avuncular . stone is bold , brash , and commanding . for stone , science is a means to an end : exploring . he sees himself as a " pioneer " who opens new realms where others can follow . for klimchouk , it is the other way around : science is the end and caves are the laboratories in which he does it .  it was in 2004 that the stage was set for an epic race to find the deepest cave on earth . even the normally staid national geographic magazine borrowed a phrase from jules verne to describe it : " the race to the centre of the , in mexico , and the krubera cave , in georgia , have very little in common .  both are true supercaves , thousands of feet deep and with many miles of surveyed passages , but there the similarities end . cheve resembles a gigantic l , with an initial shaft dropping about 3,000 feet and an elongated foot descending for almost two more miles at a moderate slope of roughly 10 degrees . krubera , on the other hand , is 90 per cent vertical , pitch ( a vertical drop ) after pitch connected by short passages called meanders . while non-cavers would be terrorised by the yawning pits , one of which is 500-feet deep , experienced cavers look forward to their thrilling rappels , if not to their grinding ascents .  traversing krubera 's many meanders is like crawling under your car ( while half submerged in flowing water ) for thousands of yards . the caves ' body temperatures are also different . cheve is cool but relatively mild , with air temperatures that range from 47 degrees at its entrance to the low .  krubera , on the other hand , is freezing , the kind of cold that , when you 're working with water and wind , can quickly put you into third-stage , potentially fatal hypothermia . the inflowing water is never much more than 32 degrees ; unprotected survival time in water that cold is 15 minutes or less .  in a supercave every step taken , every knot tied and soup bowl filled and latrine used and map read requires the circle of light from a headlamp or flashlight . prolonged , absolute darkness has profound effects on the human body and mind . veteran texas caver r d milhollin made his first cheve entry during a 2003 expedition . reaching camp two , he and his three companions settled in to eat and sleep for a day or two . wanting to conserve batteries , they kept their lights off except for essential tasks . after not very long , though , they confessed to one another that the cave was doing strange things to their minds .  milhollin was hearing phantom noises and seeing the darkness . they decamped promptly the next morning .  stone had never hesitated to proclaim to the world that cheve had a proven potential to be the deepest cave in the world , even if it meant spending more than a month underground and diving far enough to effectively separate from the main expedition . he also knew that krubera had the potential to go just as deep , and that klimchouk was determined to prove that it did . stone decided to make his all-out attempt in mexico in 2004 . his expedition party left austin , texas , on february 22 2004 .  the general population of supercave explorers breaks down into specialist subtribes : leaders and sherpas , bolters and ropers and riggers , lead climbers and divers and diggers . diggers endure hours of confinement in squeezes so tight they can barely breathe and can move only one hand . they dig like giant moles , using tools ranging from their fingernails to hi-tech titanium implements to gasoline-powered hammer drills .  diggers are essential to supercave exploration . it is not unusual for blockages are breakdown ( jagged boulders that had broken from the ceiling over aeons and continued to do so unpredictably ) and boulder chokes , but quite often they are not truly terminal . if the cavers can feel air movement coming through a wall of breakdown or boulders , it makes sense to try to find a way through .  in march 2004 , john kerr , one of the world 's greatest diggers and another caver , bart hogan , were burrowing down a tunnel in the aguacate river sink cave , which stone hoped would link to the main cheve cave . kerr took the lead with his titanium tool and burrowed 150 feet forward . hogan , crawling a good distance behind , called to kerr .  no reply . hogan called again and again , with no response . he was beginning to fear the worst -- that kerr might have suffocated -- when the other man finally came backing out with frightening news . the tunnel 's ceiling had collapsed on him , burying the length of his body to eye level . breath , " he reported calmly .  on march 22 , without a major breakthrough , stone 's team returned to the surface . they had made it no further than 4,869 feet ( 1,484 metres ) deep . stone vowed to return . he had not proven cheve to be the deepest cave on earth . it remained to be seen , halfway around the world , what klimchouk and his cavers would prove about krubera in 2004 .  supercaves teach those who explore them any number of things , and scepticism is a big one . the numbers work like this : hundreds of promising leads produce a few dozen explorable passages , which , most often , end in piles of boulders or flooded tunnels or simply blank walls . once in a great while , an explorable passage will go , and once in an ever-greater while , one will just keep going . but those , the fabulous ones that have no stop in them , are rare .  klimchouk quantified how things had played out over the years . of hundreds of cent yielded more depth and distance ; only one per cent produced substantial breakthroughs .  klimchouk led an expedition to krubera in august 2004 , paving the way for another effort in october . at that point , he had been in the field for two and a half months . he could not manage another month away from family , university , and laboratory . someone else would have to lead the next effort .  yury kasjan was the logical choice . he knew krubera as well as anyone . like klimchouk , kasjan was a fine leader , quiet but good-natured ; had unbelievable stamina ; and was technically adept at all aspects of extreme caving .  nine cavers would work underground in two separate groups . the first group included kasjan and emil vash , a tall , slender 22-year-old student ; ekaterina medvedeva , 23 , igor ischenko , 36 , and kyryl gostev , 21 , rounded out the team . they would be the expedition 's spearhead .  day by day , like mountaineers climbing up to successively higher camps , on october 11 they occupied the 1,400-metre camp . that lowest spot would become this expedition 's jumping-off point . everything previous was just preparation .  to reach that camp , however , they had to get themselves , their gear , and their supplies through a short but treacherous sump . in common usage , a sump is a place , lower than its surroundings , where liquid collects . sumps in caves are long , winding , flooded tunnels . in places they are so tight that divers have to stop , doff their tanks , push them through , and then follow , donning their equipment again only when the passage widens sufficiently .  that description really does not do the procedure justice , though , because you remain connected to your air tanks only by the regulator hose and mouthpiece . it takes not much force at all to yank the mouthpiece from between your teeth , and if that happens , in what is almost certain to be zero visibility , your chances of finding it again before you drown are not so good equipment was not absolutely essential . but it was long and tight enough to stretch a breath-hold dive to its extreme limits . because bringing scuba gear involved another whole dimension of logistics , kasjan had elected to traverse this sump by breath-hold diving . vash knew he would have to go through if he was to have any chance of reaching krubera 's bottom .  on october 12 , the day of the planned sump crossing , vash found himself too nervous to eat breakfast . he had been told that the underwater tunnel was about 30 inches high and 10-feet long . what made it so dangerous was that it was just 18 inches wide , roughly the diameter of a large pizza . in addition , its walls were rough and spiked with protrusions that could easily snag a caver . it would not take long to drown in those conditions .  he would do well to be able to hold his breath for 60 seconds in water that cold . throw in the added factors of panic and wild attempts to extricate oneself , and had a premonition that he would not make it through , but he pushed on regardless . he hyperventilated to blow carbon dioxide out of his system , held a last breath , and dove . his premonition quickly came true . he did n't submerge deeply enough and , halfway through , his helmet caught on a ceiling obstruction .  panicking , he flailed back out of the sump and surfaced , unnerved and gasping . it had been one of the worst moments of his caving career .  though it had taken only 20 seconds or so for vash to extricate himself , it had seemed much longer . his exertions had consumed the oxygen in his system voraciously , causing him to feel suffocated much too quickly . reflecting later , he could remember nothing specific during the incident , just a black space filled with terror .  cavers are nothing if not persistent . calming himself , vash went in once again , taking care to go all the way down to the tunnel 's floor this time . he cleared the ceiling but that it pressed against the surface of his body and helmet . this was a very tight scrabble while completely submerged in zero-visibility , 32-degree water . he had been told to expect such conditions , but as veterans of combat can confirm , no matter how great the effort , thinking about such things is never adequate preparation for their reality .  over the next few days , both teams brought more supplies to the deep camp , creating caving 's version of the high camp in mountaineering , the final resting place before the launch of the summit assault.working so hard that deep , vash was discovering something as true in supercaves as it is for mountaineers on 8,000-metre peaks : the body does not really recover under such conditions but deteriorates more or less rapidly , depending on the individual . most supercave expedition members lose a pound a day or more ; few are fat to begin with , their bodies soon begin eating their own muscles .  the explorers spent october 18 sewing up tattered dry suits , collecting odds and ends of food sleeping . they were all aware that they could well be on the verge of making history . after a huge supper , everyone went to bed at 9.25pm . maddeningly , despite his exhaustion , vash was so excited that he could not sleep that night . he got up early : 6.05am . this was it , the sharp , final point to which everything had brought them .  at 9am they left camp ; they arrived at the large fork 90 minutes later , bringing along heavy bags of rope and hardware to explore any breakthroughs . in profile on a map , the new section of cave leading downward looks something like a decrepit stairway . vash and gostev set about surveying one set of passages and pits . surveying finished , the pair climbed back up to the large fork , rejoined the others , and then all descended to the place where kasjan and medvedeva had been working .  vash perceived at once that this section was both beautiful and promising . the limestone reminded him of the delicate hues of raspberry and  here , too , the pitches were both wider and steeper -- harbingers of depth . presently , the entire team was gathered at the deepest point kasjan and medvedeva had reached . it was a small chamber , on the far side of which a steep pitch dropped off into darkness . it was eerily quiet . kasjan was studying his altimeter intently . at some point during the last half-hour , they had exceeded 2,000 metres -- 6,562 feet . this in itself was an epochal milestone , akin to the first ascent of an 8,000-metre peak .  the next pitch would tell the tale . kasjan adjusted his helmet lamps and slipped into the opening . medvedeva followed , then vash , then the others . they worked their way down three more vertical pitches separated by inclined passages and finally dropped into a triangular-shaped room , perhaps 15 feet on a side , with a flat , clay bottom and nondescript brown walls . their light beams danced over floor and walls like frantic white spiders , but they could see no more windows , tri-cornered room 's clay floor there was a circular , craterlike depression about three feet in diameter and two-feet deep . down at its bottom , the hole came to a point , like the drain in a sink ( which it might well have been at one time ) , and in that spot was lodged a small white rock . vash and the others leant over the hole in krubera 's floor as kasjan used his altimeter to calculate the depth of that ultimate white rock . he straightened up , waited a moment , and announced : " two thousand and eighty metres " . the team erupted with cheers .  discoverers in caves are privileged to name their new finds . it did not take long to reach consensus about the bottom of the world . they knew where they were , and how very long it had taken to get there , and how many other explorers had made this final act possible . they gave the place a name that , they hoped , captured all those things : game over .