Battle: Los Angeles - Den Of Geek goes on a military training day
http://www.denofgeek.com/movies/17728/battle-los-angeles-den-of-geek-goes-on-a-military-training-day

you are here :  battle : los angeles - den of geek goes on a military training day  to tie in with the home release of battle : los angeles , we sent our roving adventurer nick off on a military training day . here 's what happened ...  maybe it 's because i went to the last den of geek quiz dressed in full combat fatigues , or perhaps it 's my ' i heart guns ' badge , but either way i found myself on the receiving end of a phone call inviting me to take part in an army training boot camp day to celebrate the launch of battle : los angeles on dvd and blu-ray .  having survived , nay thrived , on similar excursions ( once dressing as a wwii marine and another time as a roman ) i thought , " yeah , bring it on . i 'm the damn king of these sort of things . a quick dress up , breeze through some drills , play with a fake gun and then home for .  the first clue things were going to be different was the location , an abandoned warehouse complex somewhere south of london . a local taxi informed another journalist there that the place did n't really exist anymore . ominous . once there we were met by men wearing a lot of body armour and stroking guns . ushered inside into the crumbling factory , we saw yet more guns , and more heavily tooled up guys .  it quickly transpired that a lot of them were ex-military or law enforcement , and our lead trainer for the day would be an actual soldier , known only as dan ( as moonlighting for things like this is strictly frowned upon in the military ) . the aim of the day was to experience the exact boot camp conditions that the actors went through while preparing for the film . the timetable looked intense . eight hours of becoming men ( and one woman ) .  we would receive basic weapons training and instruction with the airsoft guns . for those unfamiliar with airsoft , i can reliably inform but instead of paint pellets , you fire gas-powered plastic ball bearings at each other .  this means the guns and tactical situations you can be placed in are a hell of a lot more realistic , and are one of the reasons the real deal army guys prefer it . the bastard pellets also hurt a hell of a lot if you get hit with one , and can do some real damage , as evidenced by the smashed teeth of one of the instructors .  it was at about this point i wondered if i could sneak out the back and run for safety .  however , the only running i seemed to be doing was back and forth during our firing exercises . to say these so-called easy warm-up exercises were hardcore would be understating it . panting for breath after every move and fire , it was only the threat of being shot in the nuts that kept me moving . and yes , that was a real threat .  gradually , though , our small team of foppish , mincing media types command in an instant , peeling right and left , move and covering , easy .  having successfully bested basic training , we moved on to the more extreme special forces stuff , close quarters battle and dynamic entry . this involved working in our team of four to scout out a door to a potentially hostile room , then essentially breaking down the door and neutralising any threats inside . in real life this is an incredibly dangerous task , as the first person in is usually killed straight away by any hostiles inside .  to make the task as realistic as possible , the trainers posed as both hostages and terrorists , forcing us to either shoot them or rescue them , both usually with a degree of force . it also meant we got to legitimately kick in a door while waving a gun about and shouting , " get down on the floor , motherfucker ! " it 's the stuff childhood dreams are made of .  once dan the army man was suitably impressed at our cqb skills , and our ability to more serious stuff . this meant putting away our protective mesh goggles and donning full face masks . we looked mean , but my elephant t-shirt somewhat spoilt the effect . still , eco-warriors are dangerous , yeah ?  anyway , now it was time for what was scarily called pressure testing , where all our newfound killers skills would be put to the test under a pretty life-like scenario .  we had to rescue three hostages and escort them to safety , while potentially coming under attack . and without further ado , we were off , clearing rooms like we had learnt , one by one , until suddenly we were under attack ! and these pellets really sting when they hit .  but , no matter . we 'd found the hostages , shot the bad guys ( eventually , i had a slight hesitation when i found one hostage having a gun pointed at his head . i genuinely thought , " can i really pull the trigger and kill a man ? " ) , and led our hostages out of there . the bomb or i 'll shoot you in the bollocks . " i believe the sas would consider that unorthodox .  thinking that we 'd achieved our aims almost too easily , we led the hostages out to what we thought was safety , only to - boom - be nailed in an ambush . smoke bombs and flash bangs went off , the team panicked and ran . none of us made the slightest bit of sense . ( genuinely . due to adrenalin 's effect on the brain , your higher functions , including language , suffer and you talk gibberish . that 's how real this simulation felt . )  but somehow we muddled through and out the other side . but with only one hostage . the others had seemingly been killed in the mayhem . oops .  as an insight into the film , a day like this is brilliant . battle : los angeles wo n't be winning any awards for its script , but there 's no doubting it 's a genuinely excellent visceral experience . there 's a school of and respond to the on-screen action with physical reactions . when it comes to a movie like this , i would have to genuinely agree , and knowing what the actors went through to prepare and then shoot the film , it adds to the thrill of watching aliens blowing a lot of shit up .  the guys who organised our day did a great job at recreating the tension and excitement of a real combat situation , and i would highly recommend trying it out if you 've ever had any impulse to play at war . however , be prepared for a tough day . after all that running about and diving to the floor i still ca n't really move my legs .