Last edition of News of the World sells fast in London
http://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-newscorp-newsoftheworld-idUKTRE7682HD20110710

Last edition of News of the World sells fast in London  Copies of the final edition of the News of the World , alongside other Sunday papers , are displayed for sale in a newsagent in London July 10 , 2011 .  Reuters/Luke MacGregor  left  1 of 3  right  Colin Myler ( C ) , editor of News of The World , holds up the last edition of the newspaper as the staff leave the offices of the newspaper in Wapping , London July 9 , 2011 .  Reuters/Paul Hackett  left  2 of 3  right  A machine operator views page two of the final edition of the News of the World newspaper at the News International print works in Waltham Cross , Hertfordshire July 9 , 2011 . The News of the World is doubling its print run to five million to ' go out with a bang ' .  Reuters/Ian Nicholson/Pool  left  3 of 3  right  LONDON ( Reuters ) - When Rupert Murdoch , his media empire under fire on Sunday from the United States , the message was clear .  Murdoch , sporting a white panama-style hat , sat in the front passenger seat of a red Range Rover intently reading a copy of the final edition of the best-selling newspaper he had closed only hours earlier to try to contain the spreading crisis .  " The World 's greatest newspaper 1843-2011 , " said the front page , held up for all to see . " Thank you and goodbye . "  Newspaper staff had departed , amid scenes of cheering and emotion at the same London complex , in the early hours . Many employees saw themselves as having been sacrificed by Murdoch to save his broader business interests .  But Murdoch was signalling he was not bowed . He has already made clear he has no intention of yielding to criticism and removing senior executives , nor of giving up his proposed multi-billion-dollar buyout of British broadcaster BSkyB .  The newspaper he held high had a particular symbolic significance for Murdoch . It was the first British newspaper he bought , huge media empire with political influence that , with the hacking scandal , has become the subject of much soul searching in Britain .  Admirers saw the demise of a national institution , famous for exposure of the misdemeanours of the rich , royal and famous , for its gossip and for its pictures of scantily clad women .  Critics saw in the closure a long overdue chance to cut back Murdoch 's ability to influence British politicians through his global media empire .  " The spectre of the old Murdoch , the one whose demise was signalled last week -- powerful , voracious and threatening -- must not be allowed to rise again from the ashes of the News of the World , " said an editorial in The Observer .  Copies of the last edition were selling well , said newspaper vendor Jean Natella at London Bridge Station .  " I think it 's a shame because they 've done a lot of good , they 've riddled out a lot of , let 's say , nasty people , " she said . it down . But they have got no choice because they condemned others so they have got to show they are accountable . "  Regular reader Michael Mitchell , a revenue officer , said , " I do n't think it should close ; I think the people responsible should not be there . "  " They have , I feel , overstepped the mark . Or they 've been found out , because if this paper is doing it you can bet the majority of them are doing it as well . "  Researcher Jonathan Schifferes said journalism would be disgraced for a long time as a result of the ( phone-hacking ) allegations , and the scandal reflected badly on Britain .  The headline of the last edition was simple and unusually low key and underneath in smaller print added : " After 168 years , we finally say a sad but very proud farewell to our 7.5 million loyal readers . "  The words appeared over a montage of some of the paper 's most famous front pages , most of them involving  Inside , the paper ran several nostalgic editorials charting its successes over the years , in addition to the usual fare of celebrity gossip , showbiz and other news . The only adverts the last issue carried were for charities .  The owners of News of the World made the shock decision to close the title on Thursday in the face of mounting criticism of its newsgathering techniques .  Claims of illegal hacking into the voicemails of stars , royals , families of soldiers killed in combat and a kidnapped girl later found murdered have engulfed parent company News Corp in scandal .  The print run for the last News of the World was bumped up to five million copies , nearly double the normal number , in anticipation of a spike in demand for the historic edition .