Looking back at Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets
http://www.denofgeek.com/movies/harry-potter/17727/looking-back-at-harry-potter-and-the-chamber-of-secrets

you are here :  looking back at harry potter and the chamber of secrets  our look back at the harry potter franchise continues , as mark delves into 2002 's the chamber of secrets ...  three days after harry potter and the philosopher 's stone was released worldwide and broke box office records here , there and everywhere in its opening weekend , production pushed forward on the first sequel .  warner bros had all of the cast contracted for the first four films , and immediately exercised its option for part 2 , targeting a november 2002 release date . behind the scenes , steve kloves reprised his screen-writing role and chris columbus returned to the director 's chair .  picking up a few weeks after the first film 's happy ending , harry potter is pretty miserable . he has n't heard from his wizarding friends all summer and he 's living with the dursleys once again , who enact a classic sitcom situation , with uncle vernon 's boss coming round for dinner in the first ten minutes of dobby materialises in harry 's bedroom ! sitcom antics aside , dobby is here to get the story going , by insisting that harry does n't return to hogwarts for his second year , lest he fall prey to a terrible evil . via flying ford anglia , harry is soon rescued from his relatives by the weasleys .  it 's not long into the school year , however , when that terrible evil rears its head . according to a message daubed in blood , the chamber of secrets has been opened by the heir of hogwarts co-founder , salazar slytherin . and now the horror from within the chamber is loose in the castle , trying to kill off students .  here 's a story that lends itself to arguments about the logic of keeping slytherin open at hogwarts . maggie smith 's professor mcgonagall always mentions slytherin last when listing the school houses , and with such an inflection that she might as well have said " evil house " instead . it 's a vagary of the film series , that it never quite explains 's students into a house with a reputation for turning out evil wizards . still , this one delves into hogwarts history and introduces one of the series ' central themes , that of prejudice .  in wizarding genealogy , having two wizarding parents , who only have magical heritage , makes you ' pure-blood ' however , it 's also possible to come into magical power even if your parents are non-magical muggles , which makes you ' muggle-born ' . ' half-bloods ' , which come up later in the series , are the result of a union between a pure-blood and either a muggle-born or a muggle .  with me so far ? well , there 's naturally some in-fighting amongst the different types of wizard , largely fuelled by the pure-bloods , and slytherin alumni 's deep-seated ignorance about muggle-borns . muggle-born hermione , arguably the most talented student of the lot , is on the receiving end of racial hatred with the invented slur " mudblood " .  this development gives a nastier edge to schoolyard bully , draco malfoy , played by played by jason isaacs . the two of them are condescending and cruel , and their family 's been pure-blood slytherins for centuries . that makes draco the prime suspect as the heir of slytherin , as far as our trio of amateur wizarding sleuths are concerned .  if you have n't guessed , that detour fills in for their suspicion of snape in the first film , and once again , it turns out lord voldemort is the root of the trouble . the method of his return through his 16-year-old self 's diary becomes intrinsically important towards the end of the series , but that 's a link for another time .  as far as the b plots of the film are concerned , the usual blind reverence to the source material is present and correct . detours spring up left , right and centre , tenuously linked from scene to scene in an attempt to hold the abrupt tonal shifts as part of one story .  at one hundred and sixty-one minutes , this film is the longest of the series , based on the . at the same time , few of the harry potter films are more successful in preserving the complexities of the christiesque mystery story that rowling weaves into her novels . then again , it 's no less sudden when the baddy turns out to be lord voldemort , hiding under an anagram .  tom marvolo riddle , voldemort 's real name , was nearly reverse engineered by rowling from " i am lord voldemort " , something that columbus literally spells out in flaming letters on the screen . anagrams are a dangerous route to take , because it gets fans looking for patterns that are not there . a few years ago , factions of book fans were convinced that the name of wand-making shop ollivander 's was code for either ' ronald lives ' or ' ronald 's evil ' .  on the topic of ronald , rupert grint 's performance sums up so much of what is misjudged in this instalment . directed to squeak and squeal for comic effect in action scenes , it actually foregoes the actor 's natural comic timing and instead 's saddled with ripe dialogue like " the invisibility booster must be faulty ! "  but it 's no easier for daniel radcliffe , whose particular brand of wonderment takes on the form of just repeating certain words questioningly . both actors ' voices had broken in the year since they filmed the first one , so perhaps that 's why it feels like they 're adjusting to their roles all over again .  as usual , the grownups fare better . new additions to the cast , along with the brilliant jason isaacs , include kenneth branagh as vainglorious defence against the dark arts teacher , gilderoy lockhart . he 's a character who 's ultimately swept into a subplot , despite being present for part of the climax , but branagh justifies his inclusion with an enjoyable comic turn . stay for after the end credits , too .  a special mention ought to go to richard harris , who passed away a week before the premiere of this film . in his two turns as professor dumbledore , he exudes wisdom , and in his kindly humour and reassuring presence . also , the character appears to get drunk and cancel all exams at the end , probably ruining the academic chances of older students . so , at least he finishes in style .  it 's good to see toby jones ' performance come through the cgi dobby , although weta digital also created a much more lauded digital character through andy serkis ' rendition of gollum in the lord of the rings : the two towers , released a month after this one . in fact , all of the cgi is much improved from philosopher 's stone , the biggest achievement being the basilisk , a giant snake that appears in the final act .  but , really , the star of this film is stuart craig for his production design . this film arguably holds some of his most accomplished work on the series , with grand sets like the weasley homestead , the burrow , and the titular chamber of secrets looking absolutely stunning on screen . there 's no faulting the visuals in this one , even if  but each of the different directors on the potter series tended to emphasise different aspects , leaving their own imprint and telling the story through different means . chris columbus essentially made two films that were very much like his earlier film , young sherlock holmes , although the source novels are very close to that template themselves , boarding school mystery stories .  but if philosopher 's stone was quaint , chamber of secrets feels slightly cheesy . the humour is hit and miss , and certain emotional beats come across as mawkish and sentimental . the final scene , especially , is pure camembert . it 's not the tone you want for a story in which a giant snake attempts a genocidal rampage against schoolchildren .  terry gilliam , who was beaten to the director 's post on philosopher 's stone by columbus , has been less favourable in his assessment . believing himself to be the perfect fit for the series , gilliam once told the new york post that " ... chris columbus ' versions are terrible . just dull . pedestrian . secrets is a tantalising one , and it is a shame that he never got to helm one of the films .  much more than its predecessor , harry potter and the chamber of secrets feels like it 's made up of tentative steps into a new world . it 's hobbled slightly by the unwavering reverence for the source material , which ultimately makes it less creative than its own production design . as gilliam said , it 's more pedestrian , the kind of adaptation warner bros wanted at that stage .  it 's not a bad movie , by any stretch , and parts of it are very good . but when you see what was to come post-columbus , it feels like a missed opportunity of sorts . after the speedy turnaround on this sequel , the series would go on to a regular cycle of one film every eighteen months , and so 2004 's harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban would bring a major sea change .