Hello! breaks ABC embargo to claim better sales figures than rivals
http://www.mediaweek.co.uk/article/1085412/hello-breaks-abc-embargo-claim-better-sales-figures-rivals

Media Week  Main Navigation  Hello ! breaks ABC embargo to claim better sales figures than rivals  by Sophie Maden , 18.08.2011  Hello ! magazine , the weekly celebrity gossip and women 's lifestyle glossy , has broken with convention by announcing its boosted sales figures ahead of the Audit Bureau of Circulations ' official release .  Hello ! is citing the " Kate factor " for its sales boost , after claiming its Royal Wedding coverage lifted sales by more than a quarter in the first six months of 2011 .  In a statement today , given to one of the national newspapers yesterday , Hello ! announced that its April Royal Wedding issue sold 1.1 million copies , and claims ABC figures due to be released today ( 18 August ) will show sales have remained high , with an average of 282,696 copies a week sold at UK and Ireland newsstands .  Hello ! said its figures represent a 27% year-on-year increase and a 15.6% increase period on period , based on an average sales figure of 222,126 , publishing director of Hello ! , said : " Kate Middleton is undoubtedly one of the most popular cover stars in Hello ! ' s history . All six of our top-selling titles this year had Kate on the front .  " What is most pleasing about these ABC results for us is that a great deal of those new readers have continued to buy the magazine week in , week out .  " To be gaining thousands of new UK readers at a time when the rest of the market is faltering and losing readers , is an incredibly strong position to be in , and is testament to the celebrity insights Hello ! provides that no other source can . "  A source at ABC said it became aware that the embargo had been broken last night , and was currently discussing the issue .  Jan Pitt , group executive director of client services at ABC , said : " Publishers are made aware and reminded that a publication 's circulation figures are confidential until 12 noon on the day the ABC Consumer Magazines on figures very seriously on behalf of all publishers and a formal process is in place for any publishers who break the embargo . "  Have your say ...  If you see a comment you find offensive , you can flag it as inappropriate . In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment , you will see ' flag as inappropriate ' . Clicking this prompts us to review the comment . For further information see our rules for commenting on articles .  This has been the year of Twitter outrage , rugby losses , football wins and ad-blocking . Have you been paying attention to the key events of 2015 , or were you buried deep in that slide deck ? Break free of the last-minute PowerPoint tyranny and take our quiz to see how well you remember the last 12 months .