Prone to flu? Just blame it on your genes... scientists discover that ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2030187/Prone-flu-Just-blame-genes--scientists-discover-resist-bug.html

related articles  share this article  researchers inoculated 17 healthy people with the flu virus and monitored their progress for five days .  of the sample , nine became ill and the rest showed no symptoms at all .  using technology usually employed in satellite imaging , they examined the genes in the subjects ' blood samples every eight hours .  those who became sick developed an acute inflammation on certain genes 36 hours before the symptoms set in . this ' genetic signature ' was most marked in those who were suffering the worst .  meanwhile , those who remained fine were found to have activated a totally different genetic signature .  the scientists interpreted this signature as an ' anti-stress response ' that showed their bodies were actively fighting off the virus . this discovery raises the possibility that experts could find a way to detect flu early , and take preventative action before the worst effects develop .  professor peter openshaw , of the centre for respiratory infection at imperial college , said : ' this is has very big implications for many infectious diseases , not only flu .  ' it could help with flu pandemics and even allow us to detect lethal infections such as the ebola virus at a very early stage . '  dr alfred hero , the university of michigan academic who led the research , said : ' we looked at over 22,000 genes in 267 blood samples . no study of this magnitude has ever been done on human immune response .  ' we can start to tease out the biological conditions that might make one more resistant to getting sick .  ' we will be testing it on different strains of flu , and it may not just be flu , it may be the same for other viruses including the common cold . '  a think-tank yesterday called for the flu jab to be given to everyone over 50 .  the international longevity centre said while britain 's childhood immunisation programme was among the best in the world , adult immunisation had been neglected .