Police find pregnancy test kits in flat of German loner who held ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2029927/Police-pregnancy-test-kits-flat-German-loner-held-woman-hostage-homemade-bomb-rigged-torture-chamber.html

share this article  he bought numerous gynaecological devices , surgical implements and dentistry tools which he intended to use on his victim .  fischer also built a special cage for her - a soundproofed telephone box he stole from a street somewhere in germany .  officers would not reveal how many pregnancy testing kits were found in the apartment , but said it was ' more than one ' .  macabre : fischer was arrested for keeping a woman imprisoned in his hamburg flat and has not spoken since  ' cold sadist ' fischer had rigged his apartment with eight bombs which he created by emptying fire extinguishers and filling them with fertiliser .  today a chilling video emerged of fischer carrying the fire extinguishers into his hamburg apartment .  the footage shown on the website of german newspaper bild , shows fischer making repeated trips in and out of the apartment building carrying the red extinguishers which he would later rig as explosives .  the fertiliser-based bombs were so volatile police had to evacuate 300 people when his recipes he found on the internet .  police said he and the woman knew each other after being introduced by a friend , but that there was ' definitely no relationship ' and that fischer had become obsessed with ' owning ' her and stalked her .  she managed to escape his apartment by jumping from a first floor window and running away from the chasing fischer to a friend 's house before informing police , who later arrested him .  he rigged up a camera outside the door to his 88 sq ft flat so he could observe who was trying to get in and had huge planks stored in the basement designed to seal the windows .  the outside of the windows were criss-crossed with barbed wire and sealed on the inside with baking foil and clingfilm .  a hand grenade was discovered in the flat as well as fire extinguishers which had been modified to create home-made bombs .  a hand grenade was discovered in the flat as well as fire extinguishers which had been modified to create home-made bombs  a newspaper he has known fischer for three years .  he said : ' thommy is a complete cold sadist . i never once saw him smile .  he has no heart . this pig has plotted this crime for years . '  the man met fischer at the mahlzeit hostel in the altona district , where fischer would buy drinks for homeless people .  chilling : police examine the soundproofed phone box which ' sadistic ' thomas fischer used as a torture chamber  desperate : the woman escaped from the apartment by diving through a barbed wire-covered window  holger went on : ' he came every monday wearing a military-style jacket . he drank a coffee and ogled the women . he never said a word about himself . ' fischer has not said a single word since he was arrested .  police are still working on the theory that he had an accomplice who helped him turn the small apartment into a torture chamber .  it was also revealed this week that fischer is already known to police . he has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @