When GCSEs are as good as a degree
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/education/educationnews/8721526/When-GCSEs-are-as-good-as-a-degree.html

When GCSEs are as good as a degree  One in seven university graduates earns no more than the typical worker who left school with just GCSEs , while one in five earns less than a worker whose education ended with A-levels , official figures show .  The study found that workers with a university degree still generally earn more than less-educated peoplePhoto : Alamy  A growing proportion of graduates are ending up in low-skill jobs such as cleaning and hospitality , the analysis from the Office for National Statistics also disclosed .  Comparing employment data for 1993 and 2010 , the ONS found the financial advantages of a degree have fallen as the number of graduates has risen .  The study found that workers with a university degree still generally earn more than less-educated people .  By the end of last year , the median pay for graduates -- the mid-point of the salary range -- was ? 33,500 , the ONS said . But 20 per cent had salaries below ? 20,800 , the median pay for those educated to workers earn less than the median wage of someone who left school after taking GCSEs , which was around ? 18,000 last year .  Related Articles  Evidence of the declining financial benefits of a degree has mixed implications for the Coalition 's arguments for its higher education policy . University tuition fees will next year rise to as much as ? 9,000 year . Ministers say the higher price is justified by the higher salaries that graduates earn over their careers .  On the other hand , the fact that many graduates earn relatively low salaries could help one aspect of the Coalition 's case . Under the new fees system , low-paid graduates will not have to repay their loans . The ONS report also suggested that the expansion of the higher education sector has outpaced changes in the UK economy itself . In 1993 , around 12 per cent of the population had a degree . By the end of last year the figure was 25 per cent .  However , the percentage of UK jobs classed as " high skill " posts only rose result is that more graduates end up in posts for which they are over-qualified . The share of graduates finding " low " or " lower-skilled " jobs grew from 9 per cent to 16.8 per cent . Those jobs include posts as cleaners , postal workers , hotel porters , secretaries and retail assistants .  In 1993 , almost seven in 10 graduates ( 68.3 per cent ) went into high-skilled professional posts . By the end of last year , that had fallen to 56.6 per cent .  The Department for Business insisted that a degree " remains a good investment " for young people . A spokesman said : " Our studies show that graduates earn , on average , around ? 100,000 more across their working lives , as well as other benefits such as greater rates of employment and improved health status . "  Universities UK , which represents the sector , also insisted that young people should still aspire to a degree . The group said : " UK graduates are still in a better position to succeed and remain highly valued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @