Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Taylor Armstrong begins ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2034880/Real-Housewives-Beverly-Hills-star-Taylor-Armstrong-begins-piecing-family-life-together.html

Brave Taylor Armstrong begins piecing her family life back together  Taylor Armstrong and her daughter Kennedy are pictured here together for the first time since the youngster 's father killed himself last month .  The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star cut a solemn figure as five-year-old Kennedy , dressed head to toe in pink , clung on to her mother 's hand .  They were spotted arriving at a house in Beverly Hills today where they were believed to be attending an afternoon party as they attempt to piece their lives back together following Russell 's suicide .  Lean on me : Taylor Armstrong and daughter Kennedy pictured out today in Beverly Hills on their way to an afternoon party just weeks after Russell 's death  Meanwhile , toxicology tests released today have revealed Russell was not under the influence of any drugs or alcohol when he hanged himself , Los Angeles County Assistant Chief Coroner Ed Winter confirmed to E ! News .  The father of three , who also had two sons from previous relationships , was found , on August 15 - a month after Taylor filed for divorce amid claims of domestic abuse .  It has been another tough week for Taylor .  Piecing their lives back together : It is the first time the mother and daughter have been pictured together since the Kennedy 's father committed suicide  On Monday the second season of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills aired on Bravo .  It showed painful scenes of Taylor breaking down after telling the fellow Housewives that she was seeking marriage counselling with Russell .  The scenes were filmed before she filed for divorce and months before the 47-year-old businessman took his own life .  In a further development this week , Russell 's family are now claiming he did not commit suicide but was ' murdered , ' according to new reports .  Hand in hand : Kennedy held on tight to her mother and was dressed head to toe in pink  Although the Los Angeles County Coroner ruled Russell 's death was suicide by hanging , TMZ reports the family have hired a private investigator  The website reports that the family are ' convinced ' that Russell 's money problems caused him to get involved with ' the wrong people . '  As a result , Russell may have ' screwed over ' someone ' out of desperation . '  That person or persons then retaliated by killing him , according to the website .  Family portrait : Russell was found dead last month , pictured here with Taylor and Kennedy at event in Los Angeles back in March