Football clubs may be forced to shortlist black managers
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/competitions/premier-league/8747629/Football-clubs-may-be-forced-to-shortlist-black-managers.html

Football clubs may be forced to shortlist black managers  The Professional Footballers ' Association ( PFA ) are investigating the possibility of forcing clubs to put black candidates on shortlists for managerial vacancies .  Face in the crowd : Chris Hughton , the Birmingham City manager , is just one of two black managers in the Football LeaguePhoto : ACTION IMAGES  By Telegraph staff and agencies  4:51PM BST 07 Sep 2011  Since Paul Ince left Notts County in April , only two of the 92 English league teams have black managers , Chris Powell at Charlton and Birmingham 's Chris Hughton .  Discussions with the men who brought about the implementation of the ' Rooney Rule ' in the United States , that has promoted opportunity for black coaches in the league , are at an early stage , with further talks planned .  Gordon Taylor , the PFA chief executive , feels it is an avenue that has to be explored .  " In football terms , we are the most cosmopolitan country in the world , " , creed , nationality or background .  " However , the PFA spends a lot of money training players for the future and understandably , one of the most obvious areas of interest is coaching and management . For some reason the number of black people who actually get a chance in this area is very small . "  Related Articles  The same situation used to exist in the NFL until the Rooney Rule was drafted by civil rights lawyer Cyrus Mehri .  Implemented in 2003 , the Rooney Rule was forced to overcome some initial teething problems .  However , once the NFL showed they were prepared to take tough action against clubs who did not follow the law - fining the Detroit Lions $200,000 for not interviewing an African-American for their vacant head coach 's job in 2003 - teams fell into line .  Taylor feels a similar situation in England would be a win-win outcome given the increasing clamour for success . " All we are asking for is an interview , " he said .  " But the more times eventually getting a job .  " This has to be a good thing because it broadens panel of potential managers and coaches clubs are selecting from and opens up the possibility of greater experience .  " That should be what every club is looking for anyway . "  Invited by Taylor , Mehri met members of the PFA , League Managers ' Association , the Football Association , Football League and Premier League at Wembley on Tuesday , ahead of England 's victory over Wales .  " We are committed to this issue and Cyrus ' experiences can offer us an insight and some solutions that can begin to address a concern that will not go away on its own , " said Taylor .  " Twenty years ago , Cyrille Regis and Luther Blissett did not try to carve out a career in management because they did not feel they would get a proper chance .  " In 2011 , it is in no-one 's interests for potential managers to be put off for similar reasons . We will not be taking this off @ @ @ @