Our children need time not stuff
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-14899148

Our children need time not stuff  Media captionBritish children among the least happy in the developed world  Why are British children so unhappy ? Four years after Unicef sparked national soul-searching with analysis showing child well-being in the UK at the bottom of a league of developed nations , the organisation has attempted to explain our problem .  The answer , it seems , is that we put too little store on family time and too much on material goods . Unicef paints a picture of a country that has got its priorities wrong - trading quality time with our children for " cupboards full of expensive toys that are n't used " .  " Parents in the UK want to be good parents , but are n't sure how , " the research suggests . " They feel they do n't have the time , and sometimes the knowledge , and often try to compensate for this by buying their children gadgets and clothes . "  The research compares Britain with Sweden and Spain . While the UK languishes in 21st , they come second and fifth respectively .  One reason they perform so much better , according to Unicef , is that in both countries " family time is protected " and children " all have greater access to activities " .  " In Sweden their social policy allows family time and their culture massively reinforces it . In Spain fathers do work long hours , but the extended family is still very important and women stay at home to look after their children . "  The report argues that the pressure of the working environment and rampant materialism combine to damage the well-being of our children . They want our attention but we give them our money .  " All children interviewed said that material goods did not make them happy , but materialism in the UK seems to be just as much of a problem for parents as children , " the research concludes . " Parents in the UK often feel compelled to purchase consumer goods which are often neither wanted or treasured . "  It is a profoundly depressing analysis of British Time poor  The importance of parents devoting energy and love to the rearing of their children is accepted by political leaders from across the spectrum , but maximising income and encouraging consumption are regarded as vital components for economic growth .  In the UK , the demands of the latter often undermine the former .  Parents work all hours to increase family income but then are too exhausted or too busy to give their children the attention they need and deserve .  Of course the Swedes and the Spanish are materialistic too , but the researchers found parents in these countries more able to defy the consumer society .  " Parents in the UK ... do n't know how to challenge the materialist culture they see around them . This is in stark contrast to the families the researchers spent time with in Sweden and Spain . "  One reason for Britain 's poor performance , it is suggested , is that material inequality is much higher here than in other rich countries . The chart above - from another Unicef report card published last in material well-being than the OECD average .  The consequence is that poorer families feel they have to struggle even harder to get their children the stuff that is equated to status : the latest computer games , branded trainers and corporate logos .  " Parents and children feel massive external pressure from a materialistic culture , which they know wo n't bring happiness , but are conforming to none-the-less , " the research finds . " Lack of family time and materialism is particularly felt among poorer families in the UK compared to the other countries . "  Another problem is that British teenagers do not have enough to do - particularly within the educational arena .  " In the UK , children 's time in active creative pursuits diminishes in secondary schools compared to children in Spain and Sweden . This is particularly true among older , deprived children in the UK . "  Unicef 's remedy is for Britain to look at its priorities . They want politicians to consider specific measures to support families :  reform of advertising laws  a time with each other  protection of children 's facilities so they have the opportunity to be active  Before the last election , David Cameron gave a speech in which he said that " what matters most to a child 's life chances is not the wealth of their upbringing but the warmth of their parenting . "  Today 's Unicef research would seem to concur . If Britain is serious about doing the best for its children , it needs to give them more time not more stuff .