Passengers spend extra 6.5m hours on Tube due to 'unacceptable ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/road-and-rail-transport/8759207/Passengers-spend-extra-6.5m-hours-on-Tube-due-to-unacceptable-delays.html

since the tube upgrade programme began in 2003/04 , network delays per year reduced by 27% , but august 2010-january 2011 saw the longest sustained period of poor performance on the tube since upgrade work started .  industrial action accounted for around half of the increase in lost passenger hours between 2009/10 and 2010/11 .  caroline pidgeon , chairman of the assembly 's transport committee , said : ' ' passengers spent an extra six-and-a-half million hours on the tube in 2010/11 because of the increased number of delays . this is clearly unacceptable and a drag on london 's economy .  ' ' we know delays on the underground have fallen overall since 2003 , but tfl must ensure that last year 's 20% dip in performance is a blip - not a disturbing sign of things to come . ' '  bob crow , leader of the rail maritime and transport union , said : ' ' the repeated breakdowns and infrastructure failures on the tube can be blamed fairly and squarely on cuts to maintenance and the expensive failure of waiting by years of mismanagement of the london transport budget and a recent wave of signal failures and breakdowns shows clearly that a dire situation is getting worse . we have less than a year to sort this crisis before a surge of visitors arrive for the london olympics . ' '  mike brown , managing director of london underground , said : " the tube is approaching 150 years old and we are currently undertaking the biggest upgrade in its history - replacing signalling , trains and track to boost capacity and provide passengers with more reliable and more comfortable journeys .  " this ca n't be achieved overnight and some disruption is inevitable as the work takes place . however , londoners rightly expect reliable journeys , and we are completely focused on making sure that we deliver that .  " there clearly was a dip in overall performance at the end of last year , but the programme of measures that we have introduced since then has meant that we have turned that around , as the latest figures show .  " now that completed work on the jubilee line , we are delivering some huge improvements on the tube and we continue to make the case to the government for the investment needed to ensure this continues .  " we will also do all we can to make sure that , where upgrade work means that closures are necessary , we complete the work in the quickest possible time and give our passengers all the information they need on what we are doing and how to avoid disruption . "