The Good, The Bad And The Multiplex by Mark Kermode review
http://www.denofgeek.com/books-comics/5992/the-good-the-bad-and-the-multiplex-by-mark-kermode-review

You are here :  The Good , The Bad And The Multiplex by Mark Kermode review  Mark Kermode 's latest book asks the question : what 's wrong with modern movies ? Here 's our review of The Good , The Bad And The Multiplex ...  If you 've got a sense of bafflement over how modern day cinema can give us three $1bn+ grossing films in a year , but still wo n't stump up for an individual projectionist or an usher or two down at your local multiplex , then you 'll be in good company with Mark Kermode 's latest book .  The Good , The Bad And The Multiplex is a fleshing out of many of the arguments familiar to those who listen to the Kermode and Mayo film programme on Radio Five Live . And , teased with the subtitle ' What 's wrong with modern movies ? ' , you might be forgiven for thinking that you 're getting 313 page of full-on Kermodian ranting .  But you 're not . Instead , you 're getting . Interestingly , it 's less than you might think about some of the films themselves ( although Michael Bay 's Christmas card list is rarely likely to have Kermode 's name on it ) , but rather the apparatus and system that surrounds then .  Firmly in Kermode 's crosshairs are 3D , multiplex cinemas ( illustrated through a painfully funny attempt to watch Charlie St Cloud at his local cinema ) , blockbuster movies , film critics , and where Britain itself fits into world cinema .  Take 3D as an example . The world has no shortage of anti-3D rantings , but what Kermode presents in his book is an argument . An argument very much in his own voice , with his own strong viewpoint on the matter . But an argument nonetheless , which takes in both sides of the debate , before arriving at a conclusion , albeit one more obvious than the ending of your standard rom-com . Dripping with rounded examples , Kermode is n't trying to bully you to his way of thinking -- rather , he 's being accessibly . This is n't a film where hardened film buffs only need apply . Just as with his last book , It 's Only A Movie , Kermode 's writing style is chatty and welcoming , fused with energy and a love of his subject matter .  Ironically , the people who the book may end up appealing to the least are Kermode 's regular listeners . He captures many of the key themes of his radio broadcasts here , but there are inevitably fewer surprises for those more familiar with his work . That said , the chances are that you 'll find yourself nodding along with much of what he has to say anyway , and it 's a strong , well-researched , entertaining representation of his thoughts that you 're getting here .  If I had a personal favourite part of the book , it 's when he pinpoints the problem of distribution , and how it 's becoming harder and harder for small films to get a look in . Here 's where some of his arguments hold the most surprises , and you 'd Good , The Bad And The Multiplex generates in exchange for this particular system being fixed .  And that 's the critical thing , here . Kermode has a passion that you may or may not personally warm to , but it 's a thirst and desire for things to improve nonetheless . It might be idealistic at times , but it 's hard to criticise someone for that . There 's a longing in his words for cinema to get better , and as such , it 's a brisk and easy book to read and digest , with lots of thinking matter for afterwards .  Personally , I 'd just about edge It 's Only A Movie , Kermode 's previous book , over this one . But it 's a close run thing , and with The Good , The Bad And The Multiplex , Kermode has one again married up strong arguments with quality writing . It 's a book well worth seeking out .