Colombian tribe faces extinction threat after FARC hijacks medical aid
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/colombia/8760545/Colombian-tribe-faces-extinction-threat-after-FARC-hijacks-medical-aid.html

an endangered indigenous tribe in colombia faces an increased risk of extinction after marxist guerillas hijacked a boat carrying medical aid for them , campaigners have warned .  the nukak people were unknown by the outside world until 1988 but more than 50 per cent of the tribe have since died due to contact with other people introducing diseases into the community .  as a result the tribe has been classed as " at imminent risk of extinction " by survival international , which works for the rights of tribal groups worldwide .  now , the non-governmental organisation says that a boat laden with crucial medical supplies destined for the tribe in the northwest amazon basin has been hijacked by farc rebels .  survival reports that the boat was on a humanitarian mission led by the national indigenous organisation of colombia ( onic ) when it was stopped by guerillas and staff were forced to abandon all surgical equipment , stretchers and even computers .  they were then given 20 minutes to leave the area and made to abandon the only boat placing " an even greater risk of extinction on the nukak " according to becca stenham , of survival international .  related articles  " without access to health care they can not survive , " she said . " before contact , the nukak would n't have suffered from the diseases they now do , such as respiratory disease .  " the farc have shown their complete disregard for the well-being of this vulnerable tribe . "  farc , which has been waging war on colombia 's government for almost half a century , has come to control many areas of cocaine production , using the profits to fund its insurgency .  in recent years the remote rainforest area in the south-east of colombia that the nukak inhabit has become overrun by outsiders growing coca for the cocaine trade .  the united nations has warned of a suspected program of " ethnic cleansing " of colombian indigenous groups to make way for drug plantations and also for lucrative palm oil plantations and cattle ranching .  as a result many nukak people have fled their town of san jose del guaviare .  but according to survival international , up to 400 of a total of 600 nukak people remain in the jungle , hunting using blowguns with poison darts and feeding on fish , game , turtles , fruit , vegetables , nuts , insects and honey .  stephen corry , director of the group , said : " colombia 's interminable civil war has wreaked death and destruction on the nukak . the hijacking of this boat denies them their only source of healthcare "  last month , the united nations launched a campaign to protect 35 colombian indigenous tribes , including the nukak , considered at risk of being wiped out by conflict , drug production , sexual abuse and agricultural development .