John Gosden: 'Flat racing is in peril. the future is in the East...'
http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/racing/john-gosden-flat-racing-is-in-peril-the-future-is-in-the-east-2360971.html

there are very few racehorse trainers who would , or could , bring bob dylan , fc barcelona , roberto duran and an economics lesson into a 45-minute discussion about the sport of kings . indeed there might only be one : the ferociously intelligent , fiercely eloquent and altogether rather formidable john gosden .  he would be formidable even if he did n't stand six foot and quite a bit in his stockinged feet , but his stature somehow compounds the sense that this is a fellow whose views are worth listening to , especially when they concern the future of his beloved flat racing . moreover , 60-year-old gosden is the turf 's man of the moment . masked marvel won him his second consecutive ( and fourth overall ) st leger just over a fortnight ago , and his high-class colt nathaniel might just bag him his first prix de l'arc de triomphe at longchamp next weekend , unless the indian summer that the rest of us are craving goes and spoils the plan .  " the horse is in good form thursday morning at newbury , but the key factor for a lot of us is the weather . if the ground is on the fast side there he wo n't run . " the decision will be made on thursday , but if paris stays dry , gosden will miss out for at least one more year on the opportunity to add the arc to a cv that includes the epsom derby , the breeders ' cup classic and the 1,000 guineas , as well as those multiple st legers . " but we do still have the qipco champions stakes on 15 october at ascot , which is a pretty nice fallback position , " he adds . " it 's just one of those odd years when the ground looks like being fast for the arc . "  whatever happens , gosden has already realised his overriding ambition as a trainer , which was n't to win the derby , affectionately as he describes the way that his horse benny the dip did so by a short head in 1997 . " he went round epsom like a , personally , winning the breeders ' cup classic in 2008 at the place i started training with three horses in the late 1970s , santa anita , meant a touch more . that was the closing of the circle . "  gosden , whose father ' towser ' gosden was a leading trainer of the 1950s and 1960s , got a job as an assistant with noel murless after graduating from cambridge , then joined vincent o'brien in ireland . but it was in california that he really cut his teeth , at a time when racing in the united states was still basking in the fading glow of a golden era .  " i was so lucky to be there at that time . the place was humming , there was great closeness between trainers and jockeys , and fabulous , very remunerative racing . it was the second biggest spectator sport after baseball , and when i started a lot of the old hollywood set still owned horses . but that has changed . nascar racing is very big now , the car is more in and people find travelling to the racetrack a bit of a bore . "  in 1989 gosden set up shop in newmarket , and for the last six years has operated out of clarehaven stables , just a few furlongs from sir michael stoute 's empire . it is there that we talk , and i ask him whether his time in america continues to inform his training techniques . " oh , i think you absorb things when you are young and they become part of your make-up . bob dylan has been accused of plagiarising songs , but it 's not that , it 's being influenced by people you respect , whether you 're writing music or training racehorses . "  he continues to observe america carefully , and sees in the decline of racing there all kinds of grim portents for what might happen here , in fact he feels that the downward spiral is well under way .  " it has happened very quickly . the economy has entered a period of stagflation , which is going to hurt any entertainment industry and very high cost base and we 're very labour-intensive , requiring extraordinary capital investment . i hope nobody ever does a study of what it costs for these people to breed and produce horses , because we 're talking thousands of millions . consider the land , farms , stallions , mares , foals , staff . it 's a very expensive game to produce enough horses for the very large fixture list we have in this country . the foal crop is in decline , the horses that can actually race will be more and more cherished , and there will not be sufficient horses to fulfil the fixture list . "  a fleeting sigh , possibly as much to draw breath as anything else . " there is a lot of pressure on the game , " he continues , " and a lot of pressure on tracks . in time i would n't be surprised to see a few tracks go , and i do n't think that will be a bad thing , because i 'm of the opinion , as lester piggott is , that filling every slot with mediocre racing , and all we 've done is land ourselves with the law of diminishing returns . with the decline in prize money , it 's very difficult to come in and play , because racehorses are so expensive to breed . people seem to think they drop out of the sky , but they do n't . young people are being born all the time who can become great footballers . the scouts go everywhere and find them , or the academy at barcelona nurtures them . but imagine if football clubs had to go out there and breed them , select the right parents , pay for their housing . " he leans back in his chair , analogy complete . " people take it for granted that the great equine athlete just tips up , but that 's really not how it works . "  flat racing in britain , then , as gosden sees it , is in distinct peril . yet that is not so elsewhere in the world . " the future of flat racing is all to the , australasia , china . geopolitically we 're up against it , although we still have time to put things right if there 's a will . sticking heads in the sand is not the answer . "  so what is ? and does he think the horseracing authorities can find it ? " well , in fairness to them they do n't have a lot of power . it 's all about the government , and what they 're prepared to do with a gambling bill . it is in the government 's interest to have a healthy entertainment industry , and this branch of it employs huge numbers of people and generates quite a lot of money for the treasury . so , they need to bring offshore betting back on , rein in the betting exchanges , and introduce strict legislation whereby a return is made to the people who put the show on . until and unless that happens we 'll see nothing but a gradual deterioration in the quality of racing . we do still have the finest horses competing in the most prestigious races not last . "  i 'm clear , yet it occurs to me that newmarket is both the best and the worst place to issue such stentorian warnings . it is a town made affluent by racing , and there seems no manifest sign of the affluence diminishing , not so long as gosden , stoute and sir henry cecil continue to train winners , not with sheikh mohammed continuing to pour in his millions .  " yes , there are people passionate about racing and always will be , but for the new people thinking about coming into the game , there are other things they can do with their money . this is a time for businesses to sustain themselves , not think about growth . i 'm a bit cynical about economic growth generally . there 's a finite limit to what this planet can take . what 's wrong with healthy sustainability ? i do n't want to see the game grow . i want to see it rationalised . "  it 's time to bring gosden down from what i suppose might be such sense . and so i switch topics , to the great vincent o'brien , whom he had the privilege to study from closer quarters than most .  " yes , and apart from anything else he had an extraordinary business brain . a brilliant horse sense , but also fine commercial sense . like alec head he could have gone into many professions and reached the top . he was very selective in what he did and did n't train . when i was there he had 70 horses , and that to him was too many . he wanted speed , lightness and agility from his horses , even the grand national horses , and he set ballydoyle up in that way . he was so good at getting inside the horse 's head , and of course that 's our job , every day . they ca n't talk to us so we have to sense what they want and do n't want . he was also a very shy man , very good one to one , but he did n't like crowds . that word , but it was true of him . he had all the attributes . "  gosden was at the irishman 's side in 1977 , when piggott won the derby , for the eighth time , on the o'brien-trained the minstrel . " lester had been trying to get on blushing groom ; as usual he had spotted the best horse . but the aga khan would n't have it . he left henri samani on . so on the sunday morning before , the phone went . it was lester . he said : ' tell the old man i 'll ride whatever he 's got left in ' . we had three left in : the minstrel , valinsky and be my guest . the minstrel had been beaten in the 2,000 guineas , and everyone said he would n't stay , but lester saw something and gave him one of the all-time great rides . "  unsurprisingly , gosden considers piggott the greatest , the jockey for all the ages . " but willie carson was superb . and there is phenomenal talent now . ryan stable jockey reminds me of the young steve cauthen . frankie dettori is a wonderful chameleon ; he can ride anywhere in the world . some of the young boys coming through in france are phenomenal . not so much in america . gary stevens told me that the weighing-rooms there are not the same as they were . he said , and these were his words , ' there 's not the respect for horses ' . the horse has become just a means to an end . "  i tell gosden what piggott asserted to me in a recent interview , that riding styles have become too uniform . he agrees . " yes , although i have the utmost respect for jockeys . as athletes they 're like roberto duran , and on so little food . they have amazing strength , and yet you can never overpower a horse ; it has to be done with feel , with great hands , with a gentle touch . i can see what lester means , though . do they use their legs as much as they did all with the legs . it 's amazing what they can do with their legs . for someone like lester , who operated very much on his own terms , it must be pretty dull to watch . certainly kieren fallon has a style all of his own . but there 's more conformity now . and that 's true generally . every high street in every town looks the same . "  i leave before gosden starts on the economics of high-street retailing , although he doubtless could , and would . there are some horsemen who , like some of their charges , go through life wearing blinkers . not so the impressive squire of clarehaven.