Bull Bear Market Phases, Dow Theory Update
http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article30621.html

Bull Bear Market Phases , Dow Theory Update  According to Dow theory , both bull and bear markets have three phases . Between each of these phases there are important counter-trend moves . Our Dow theory founding fathers explained that these counter-trend moves are misleading and tend to be taken as a continuation of the previous long-term secular trend . Based on the longer-term phasing and value aspects of Dow theory , the evidence continues to suggest that the last great bull market began at the December 1974 low and peaked in October 2007 . This data also continues to suggest that the decline into the March 2009 low was merely the Phase I decline and that the rally out of the March 2009 low serves to separate Phase I from Phase II of a much longer-term secular bear market .  That 's right , the rally out of the March 2009 low was not a new bull market or a continuation of the previous long-term secular bull market . Rather , it is part of a correction within a much longer-term secular bear market based on my longer-term bull and bear market relationship studies and other historical characteristics , the evidence suggests that once the rally out of the 2009 low has run its course , the Phase II decline should prove to be far more devastating than the Phase I decline . Therefore , from a longer-term perspective I remain very bearish .  More recently , on August 4th both the Industrials and the Transports closed below their March 2011 secondary low points . As a result , a Dow theory trend change occurred and since this is the first such trend change since the rally out of the March 2009 low began , we can not take this development lightly . However , history shows that not all Dow theory trend changes are ominous and based on other technical data , there is a very good chance that the rally out of the March 2009 low has not yet run its course . If not , the rally separating Phase I from Phase II is not yet over . The details of these other technical studies are covered in the monthly research a bit of a technical high wire act in that while we do have a Dow theory trend change in place , on the other hand there is also other data that is actually still rather bullish and that suggests a higher level low is being made . This may or may not change and as a technician the key is to monitor the ongoing structural and statistical developments .  Based on the prevailing consensus , the current pessimism actually makes perfect sense . As a rule , the market does what it has to in order to confuse the most people . Ever since the decline into August began , it seems that the consensus has turned rather bearish . In fact , I personally know of no one that genuinely believes a move back above the May 2011 high is possible and maybe it is n't . But , I do find it very interesting that such bearishness is being seen in conjunction with such inconclusive technical data . As a result , it seems that the most confusing thing the market could do is to continue to the 1966 to 1974 bear market period below for comparison . The decline into the 1966 low marked the Phase I decline of the 1966 to 1974 secular bear market . This decline appears to be synonymous with the decline into the 2009 low . The rally separating Phase I from Phase II of the 1966 to 1974 bear market carried price up some 26 months into the 1968 top . I continue to believe that the rally out of the March 2009 low is synonymous with the rally into the 1968 top . Once all of the technical factors are in place I look for the fallout to be much the same as was seen following the 1968 top . I realize that the same old message and comparison is not exciting or sexy . But , the message of the market it is what it is as the bear continues to confuse the masses . Once the technical DNA Markers are all in place , the Phase II decline should get very very nasty . In the meantime , it currently appears that a much larger trap is likely commentary that is available at **31;0;TOOLONG The specifics on Dow theory , my statistics , model expectations , and timing are available through a subscription to Cycles News &amp; Views and the short-term updates . I have gone back to the inception of the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1896 and identified the common traits associated with all major market tops . Thus , I know with a high degree of probability what this bear market rally top will look like and how to identify it . These details are covered in the monthly research letters as it unfolds . I also provide important turn point analysis using the unique Cycle Turn Indicator on the stock market , the dollar , bonds , gold , silver , oil , gasoline , the XAU and more . A subscription includes access to the monthly issues of Cycles News &amp; Views covering the Dow theory , and very detailed statistical-based analysis plus updates 3 times a week .  Tim Wood specialises in Dow Theory and Cycles Analysis - Should you be interested in analysis that provides intermediate-term turn points utilizing the Cycle , other price quantification methods and all the statistical data surrounding the 4-year cycle , then please visit www.cyclesman.com for more details . A subscription includes access to the monthly issues of Cycles News &amp; Views covering the stock market , the dollar , bonds and gold . I also cover other areas of interest at important turn points such as gasoline , oil , silver , the XAU and recently I have even covered corn . I also provide updates 3 times a week plus additional weekend updates on the Cycle Turn Indicator on most all areas of concern . I also give specific expectations for turn points of the short , intermediate and longer-term cycles based on historical quantification .  The Market Oracle is a FREE Financial Markets Forecasting &amp; Analysis web-site. ( c ) 2005-2015 MarketOracle.co.uk ( Market Oracle Ltd ) - Market Oracle Ltd asserts copyright on all articles authored by our editorial team and all comments posted . Any and all information provided within the web-site , is for general information purposes only and Market Oracle Ltd do not warrant the accuracy , timeliness or is or shall be deemed to constitute , financial or any other advice or recommendation by us. and are also not meant to be investment advice or solicitation or recommendation to establish market positions . We do not give investment advice and our comments are an expression of opinion only and should not be construed in any manner whatsoever as recommendations to enter into a market position either stock , option , futures contract , bonds , commodity or any other financial instrument at any time . We recommend that independent professional advice is obtained before you make any investment or trading decisions . By using this site you agree to this sites Terms of Use . From time to time we promote or endorse certain products / services that we believe are worthy of your time and attention . In return for that endorsement and only in the cases where you purchase directly though us may we be compensated by the producers of those products .