Tony Blair: I could cash in a lot more than I do
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/tony-blair/8797505/Tony-Blair-I-could-cash-in-a-lot-more-than-I-do.html

tony blair : i could cash in a lot more than i do  former prime minister tony blair said he could make a lot more money than he does as he defended his ' jet-set ' lifestyle .  the former british leader strongly denied claims that he had used his role as a peace envoy in the middle east to win private business contracts .  mr blair used a wide-ranging interview to declare he had been upset by allegations that he had profited from mobile telephone and gas deals in the palestinian territories , and that he had lobbied colonel gaddafi 's libyan government on behalf of the merchant bank jp morgan , because they were " untrue " and " absurd . "  his comments were made amid growing controversy surrounding his ' billionaire lifestyle ' and alleged pro-israel bias in his role as envoy of the quartet on the middle east -- in which he mediates on behalf of the united states , russia , the european union and the united nations .  in an interview broadcast last night on relationship with rupert murdoch and blamed the children of alcoholics , drug addicts and prostitutes for britain 's recent riots , mr blair said recent allegations against him had been inspired by a left wing media establishment which resented him for creating new labour , and a right wing establishment which hated him for winning three general elections .  " i probably spend two-thirds of my time on pro-bono activity , i probably spend the biggest single chunk of my time on the middle east peace process which i do unpaid , " he said , adding that he raises money for his foundation to fight poverty africa and his india-based interfaith foundation . " i left office in 2007 with two people and a mobile phone , i 've now got about 150 people working for me . so if what i was interested in doing was making money i could make a lot more and have a very gentle and easy life . when you talk about a jet set life , it means i spend a lot of time in jets , which is true " he from a deal to establish a second mobile telephone network in the palestinian authority , whose operator borrowed $2 billion from the merchant bank jp morgan , which employs mr blair as an adviser , or from a $6 billion gas project in gaza , where the operator british gas is also linked to the bank .  " this is absolutely untrue .... the palestinians had one mobile telephone company and were desperate to introduce competition which would give them hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue , it was the single biggest foreign direct investment in palestine . i made absolutely no gain out of it at all . it was a long-standing commitment of the international community , " he said . he dismissed claims of a conflict of interest in promoting a gaza gas project because the operator british gas is also a client of jp morgan as " tenuous . "  he defended his contacts with colonel gaddafi and said he had played a key role in persuading the former dictator to embrace the west .  " i 've never made any commercial deals " it 's true i used to see col gaddafi after i left office , particularly for the first couple of years , i was very instrumental in bringing him in from the cold when he gave up his nuclear and chemical weapons , started co-operating in the fight against terrorism . " he did however regret his failure to persuade gaddafi to adopt internal political reforms . " i hoped he might shift internal policy to match external policy shifts but he did not , " he added .  the work of his foundation in africa , his interfaith foundation in india , and his efforts in libya and as middle east envoy were completely separate from his business interests on behalf of tony blair associates , he said . he admitted he had been hired by the emir of kuwait but denied it had any connection to his work as middle east envoy for the quartet .  " in respect of kuwait , this is something i do completely separately from anything else . one part of what we do is we advise governments on building capacity absolutely nothing to do with what i do in the middle-east , " he said .  mr blair , whose private life has recently been the subject of some scrutiny with one israeli newspaper linking him with a wealthy divorcee , said allegations over middle east profiteering were hurtful .  the allegations were " certainly upsetting , in particular relating to the palestinians , because it 's completely untrue . ... even me with my broad shoulders and thick skin after all these years , it 's not pleasant to have people say that , " he said .  mr blair also used the interview to defend britain 's social fabric in the aftermath of the summer riots , which have damaged the country 's image overseas . he said the criminality witnessed during the violence gave misleading impression of britain 's young people , who , he said , were more responsible and hard working than his generation had been . he blamed the violence on small numbers of young people from dysfunctional families . " the parents are often on drugs or have got alcohol problems , it 's a small number of families but they cause an immense amount of damage in local communities , " he said .  mr blair rejected criticism of his ' cosy ' relationship with media barons like rupert murdoch and said newspapers in britain were such powerful " instruments of politics " that it was essential to have good relations with them .  " people often say you had too strong a relationship not just with murdoch but with other parts of the media . ... and i always say to that : ' look , if you 're in a situation where these guys , particularly if they hunt in a pack , can literally take out any ministers and make your government rock , you 've got no option to work hard and try to bring them around , " he said .  it was n't healthy , he added , but " the truth is you 're dealing with people who , if they decide to put one of their newspapers against you , what you find is not that the comment is against a very different thing . my analysis of this is not so much about a cosy relationship , it 's a relationship in which you are dealing with people who have got the capacity to do very great damage . "