Instant messengers
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/b2408dbe-e9b3-11e0-bb3e-00144feab49a.html

Instant messengers  Histories of momentous events are being written more rapidly . But does an increase in immediacy lead to a loss of perspective ?  In 1936 , a journalist for China Weekly Review called Edgar Snow travelled to north-west China to interview Mao Zedong . Mao told his officials to greet Snow with " security , secrecy , warmth and red carpet " , for he wanted him to perform a vital task -- to shape Mao 's image in the west .  " Mao offered Snow a mixture of valuable information and colossal falsification which Snow swallowed in toto , " write Jung Chang and Jon Halliday in their 2005 biography Mao . " Mao covered up years of torture and murder ... and invented battles and heroism in the trek across China , now astutely titled ' the Long March . ' "  IN Life &amp; Arts  The result , published in 1937 , was Red Star Over China , a sympathetic account of the Red Guards ' campaign against the nationalists that influenced how Mao was regarded outside how history would be written -- as did Lenin , who provided a glowing introduction to John Reed 's account of the 1917 Russian revolution , Ten Days That Shook the World ( 1919 ) .  Yet these accounts -- especially that of Reed , who was on assignment in Russia for the socialist magazine The Masses at the time -- also capture aspects of those events that would be impossible for a historian to recreate from scratch years after the event . Whatever their shortcomings in completeness or historical perspective , they have documentary value .  Intimate accounts of world-changing events are now well-established in non-fiction publishing , with numerous examples provided by the 2008 financial crisis and by political events such as this year 's Egyptian revolution . Michael Lewis , whose 2009 book The Big Short narrated how hedge fund traders bet against the mortgage bubble , is back this month with Boomerang , a tour of countries such as Iceland and Greece that are still suffering the aftermath .  John Reed , who chronicled the Russian revolution  Indeed , history is being written took a couple of years to get from research to publication . Lewis 's latest has been " crashed " by its publishers . He completed it on August 15 , incorporating material from articles written originally for Vanity Fair magazine , and it will be published early this month , just seven weeks on . Yet even that turnround may come to be seen as leisurely in the new world of publishing .  The traditional delay of up to a year between a book 's completion and publication was partly enforced by the " pipeline " for distributing and marketing printed books -- big booksellers such as Barnes &amp; Noble in the US want to clear their shelves of one set of books before taking on another load . The rise of digital books , with ebooks now a bigger market than hardback books in the US , is shortening -- even eliminating -- this pipeline , allowing publishers and self-published authors to produce narratives more rapidly .  . . .  Yasmine El Rashidi 's first-hand account of the Egyptian revolution , The Battle for Egypt , of Books , was published by Random House as an ebook in May , four months after the uprising started . Among its competitors was Tweets from Tahrir , a collection of short observations on Twitter by witnesses to the revolution . It was released in April by OR Books , which specialises in rapid publication of current events titles in electronic and print-on-demand form . OR has also produced books on the BP Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the Gaza flotilla .  This evolution raises big questions about the trade-off between immediacy and accuracy -- or at least perspective . The historian sits down long after the events have occurred with no need to please or flatter the participants to gain access , since most are dead , and the freedom to study a wide variety of sources . A journalist working at high speed has only what he or she witnesses and the details that others -- some with an agenda -- choose to divulge .  " None of us has the right perspective , given how quickly these events unfolded , and we wo n't " says Andrew Ross Sorkin , The New York Times journalist and author of Too Big To Fail ( 2009 ) , which reconstructed the climactic events of the 2008 financial crisis in New York and Washington . " If you try to write a great analytical book now , you will either be wrong or lucky . "  Lewis says : " The last thing I want to hold myself out as is as a historian or a prognosticator . I have no clue where this is all going . I am not a wise man , I am a journalist . The historian 's advantage is that he knows how the thing ends . If the eurozone financial crisis ends in war , that 's one story . If it ends with Germany owning half of Greece , it 's another . "  Reporters do have one edge on historians -- they can get to the scene before events fade . El Rashidi , who went to Tahrir Square at the start of the demonstrations , says : " I did n't step back and think , very aware of feeling that something extraordinary was happening and wanting to share it . You can capture time and the smell and the colour of a place that can not be captured 10 years later . "  William Cohan , author of three books about financial institutions -- Lazard Fr ? res , Bear Stearns and Goldman Sachs -- says : " I find instant histories to be incredibly valuable . You can talk to the people directly involved and you can check what they tell you against documents . Email has become a great first draft of history -- it 's immutable . You can not argue with it . "  Journalists also dig out things that might otherwise remain undiscovered . Cohan says : " When I was researching Lazard , people would hand me stacks of memos that Felix Rohatyn , a former Lazard partner in New York or Andr ? Meyer , another former senior partner had written and had hoped would be buried and say , ' I knew someone like you would come along one day , so I kept them . because witnesses tend to reshape events over time . " It is critical to try to do the interviews in as close to real time as possible . I found that the further I got from the event , the worse people 's memory was about detail but the more definite their perspective . They believed they understood it better but they were wrong on facts . "  This human fallibility also applies to historians , Lewis argues . " The advantage of knowing how events ended is double-edged because once you grasp the outcome , you start to arrange the facts to lead to that outcome . Knowing the ending can distort your understanding of the middle -- you make it neater . "  But , as Snow 's case showed , there is also a price for being on the spot among participants . Mao could select a sympathetic biographer because plenty of others wanted to tell his story and access is often bartered by the key figures in contemporary events in return for favourable treatment . Journalists , such as Bob Woodward of The Washington Post the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , have been accused of writing accounts that flatter those who spoke to them most .  . . .  It is particularly difficult for the reader to tell fact from fiction -- or at least which version of the facts is closest to accuracy -- when journalists attempt to reconstruct events by talking to all the participants off the record and presenting a single version of what happened . That has been Woodward 's modus operandi , as well as Sorkin 's in Too Big To Fail .  Sorkin says this criticism is overblown . " I 'm not convinced that those who co-operate always get better treatment . I know of some people who co-operated with me and probably did n't get the treatment that they imagined . " But he admits that it makes such accounts harder for the reader or a future historian to analyse and unpack -- they simply have to trust the writer .  Woodward 's books are rarely disputed by those whose actions and words he records , and Sorkin 's was admired on Wall Suskind , author of Confidence Men , about economic policy under President Barack Obama , recently came under fire when three of his subjects , including Christina Romer , former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , claimed to have been misquoted .  In principle , the two types of history -- an instant account and the long view -- are complementary . The journalist digs up the ground and tries to uncover facts immediately , and the historian assembles all the available data and adds perspective . Rival versions of history may agree on the basic facts but shape them differently to produce varying conclusions .  But as contemporary history becomes faster and more partial -- and some versions are written in a style that is hard to prove or disprove -- it may become harder for future historians to gauge its value . The rise of digital media and the sheer deluge of data being recorded by individuals and released by organisations such as WikiLeaks , raises a further possibility -- that historians will be able to circumvent or to ignore the current accounts and go a few letters and historical records , they may have a plethora of real-time digital data to comb through .  Twitter is only one example of this -- Facebook pages , email , and photographs and videos of current events are all recent phenomena . Yasmine El Rashidi says she watched others in Tahrir Square holding up their phones . " They were not writing but you could see they were trying to capture the moment , " she says . They were , in their own way , competing to stamp their perspective on the event .  For now , the book tends to carry more weight than individual tweets , photos , or articles in newspapers and magazines . But that may be a historical anomaly -- the fact that printed books have traditionally been of a certain length and have taken time to assemble and publish . As ebook publishing speeds up , the line between books and extended magazine articles will blur . " There are people who insist that a book is a narrative form that is transhistorical , " says Colin Robinson , been defined as what a binding machine is able physically to hold together . If you remove the constraint , you are left with a continuum between a tweet and a tome . "  Lewis says : " Because an ebook is a book , it has this authority but , because you can turn it around so quickly , it has the immediacy of a piece of journalism . You are able to attract gravitas to things that were written very recently that you could n't generate before . "  That arbitrage will not last indefinitely . For the moment , anything that is produced by a book publisher is a book , no matter how immediate or distant the events it portrays . But as ebooks get shorter and are published faster , the difference in form will become evident . So too may the differences in value .  Journalists and historians have always traded off speed against perspective , especially when covering momentous events . Whereas journalists accept the challenges of time and space pressure , historians just try to get the story right , a billionaire financier 's body in his Paris flat , a bullet hole in his heart . Journalists pounce and report in real time . Several of their bestselling books appear within months . A movie is in theatres soon after . Yet historians do not even consider these events until key documents become available decades later . Only then do they write about the financier 's schemes and correct the journalists ' early mistakes .  This setting looks like today , with instant media reaction and delayed historical treatment . Yet the subject was Ivar Kreuger , the infamous " Match King , " and the year was 1932 . Even then , journalists scrambled to write the first draft of history . Earl Sparling and William Stoneman , two leading journalists who wrote quick biographies of Kreuger , were at least as fast as their modern counterparts , and at least as shackled . The definitive account of that era 's mania and crash did not appear until 1954 , with John Kenneth Galbraith 's The Great Crash , 1929 . It took even longer for biographers , straight .  A decade ago , there was no snap journalism , no minute-by-minute web-based reporting . Today , every form of reporting is compressed . Technology has not sped up writers ; it has sped up how quickly we see what they have written .  Speed is valuable but so is waiting . Will easily distracted modern readers value perspective enough to wait for it ? Perhaps . Serious history is well represented on today 's bestseller lists . These are books that even technologically savvy consumers prefer to read in paper , so they feel the weight of research on each page . In contrast , although we crave quick news and enjoy good articles and ebooks , we move those items to the trash as quickly as we buy them .  Do n't expect the definitive book on the financial crisis any time soon . And I 'm sorry this article is so long ; I did n't have time to compose a Twitter post .  Frank Partnoy is a professor of law and finance at the University of San Diego School of Law )