Great expectations for brand Dickens
http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/books/features/great-expectations-for-brand-dickens-6270459.html

4/5  5/5  there is a cartoon of charles dickens from 1868 , when he was filling theatre halls to the rafters with the most sensational , most lucrative of book tours across america . he is shown standing with his manager , george dolby , disgruntled as he counts the skyscraper-high piles of dollar bills on the table , and ruing the fact he has not earned more .  the victorian writer was , by this time , in his commercial stride , a celebrity earning the equivalent of around ? 30,000 a night in a dynamic one-man act in which he regularly knocked out his " greatest hits " -- scenes from a christmas carol , oliver twist and nell trent 's death from the old curiosity shop -- to the delight of rapt audiences . this snide , satirising cartoon , that now hangs in the dickens museum , reflects how the american press came to see him by the end of the tour -- as an author who did little to hide the sharp commercial voracity that ran alongside his abundant the dickens brand is as big and as powerful a cultural export as ever , beloved abroad and on the verge of making yet more skyscraper-shaped piles of cash for his bicentenary next year , which coincides with the olympics and the queen 's jubilee , and which is being globally marketed alongside these two mammoth events .  the dickens brand will be big business on the home front -- there is a bewildering amount of exhibitions , debates , films and plays launching throughout 2012 , and an equally dazzling array for overseas audiences . the british library , museum of london , and british film institute have begun early by staging some of their dickens fare this month . the british council is hosting events in 50 countries and dickens 2012 , the umbrella group co-ordinating festivities , anticipates a rewarding return investment .  florian schweizer , director of the dickens museum and dickens 2012 , explains that , while the latter does not have a central budget , a comparison could be made with the 250th anniversary of mozart staged in vienna in 2006 , to  the budget of ? 21m ( ? 18m ) for the mozart celebrations in vienna reaped enormous return dividends through inward tourism -- ? 43m with wider economic production value at ? 300m . the celebrations led to a hike in austrian gdp and increased employment .  " it 's always difficult to put a value on cultural activity but i can see the dickens bicentenary being comparable to the mozart celebrations . our celebrations will stretch from new york to zurich to paris to toronto . there will be activities in london , kent and portsmouth , so it will also stimulate internal tourism . we have the olympics , the queen 's jubilee and the dickens bicentenary named alongside each other as the three key events of 2012 . the three will feed into each other to the point that it will be almost difficult to pull them apart , " says schweizer . dickens would undoubtedly have approved . in his lifetime , he had a strong relationship to the money-making machine around him , however distasteful this may have seemed to the american press . father , a clerk in the navy , spent much of his life overspending , in debt , and imprisoned for it . dickens aimed to live by the same dictum as the fictional mr micawber , who correlated money with happiness in david copperfield : " annual income twenty pounds , annual expenditure nineteen pounds nineteen and six , result happiness . annual income twenty pounds , annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six , result misery . "  the young dickens was hugely insecure about money . he feared his writing would stop appealing to the public and wrote letters in the 1840s citing sir walter scott 's fate ; as a celebrated , wealthy writer of his time , he died without leaving his family financially secure . juliet john , professor of victorian literature at liverpool university , and author of dickens and mass culture , says he wrote letters about money all the time . " when he did public readings , which were really pr tours , from the 1850s onwards , he would write to friends literally characterising the audience as pounds or financially secure was 1846 , at the age of 34 , when he was no longer at the mercy of debtors nor obliged to his publishers . he had become a classic rags-to-riches story -- his own pip . by this time , he had children who proved to be as improvident as his father as well as two households to keep -- that of his estranged wife , and his mistress . he fought for copyright in britain so that his children could receive an income after his death .  alex werner , curator at the museum of london , who has co-written dickens 's victorian england 1839-1901 , published next week , says his work was so popular that , even before a serialised story was complete , theatre managers were staging full productions with their own endings . " he got very cross with these unauthorised works . copyright laws were in their infancy . in america , his work was being published in pirate publications . "  when he went to america for the second time in 1868 , he received a starry welcome , . in his first public speech , he made mention of this , by opening up the touchy subject of international copyright .  " the americans did n't understand it when the first thing he spoke about was that , if they did n't introduce international copyright , they would never have a literature of their own , and they 'd just steal works ... by the time he left , he was seen as a greedy , money-obsessed person , " says schweizer .  victorian britain did not hold such a cynical view . his public readings were incredible money-spinners but it was clear that he loved being close to his audience and performing for them . a would-be actor , he would put on different voices for characters .  so what does the dickens brand represent now , and why has his work thrived , endured and continued to bring in investment ?  for one , he is among the very few literary figures , alongside shakespeare , whose characters have gained a ubiquity across cultures . he is on school curricula as far afield " scrooge " is used in the philippines as a noun , as it is in britain ) , while robert douglas-fairhurst 's new book , becoming dickens , lists dickensian words which have since entered the vocabulary .  it could also come down to the flexibility of his fiction , which represents different things to different people . " heritage dickens " gives us a nostalgic slice of britain , full of fog and narrow streets . " campaigning dickens " flags up urban poverty and social injustices that still exist today .  " even in his own lifetime , he was a genius at presenting different images of himself to different markets . when he spoke to a working men 's institute , he would emphasise his class loyalty . in private letters he would talk of his radicalism but never ... in public , " says professor john .  not only do his novels cross class divides , encompassing the lives of servants and masters in the way that shakespeare did before him , but they cuts across genres -- so within great expectations there , detective and romance narratives , rolled into one . toby litt , an author and panellist in a british council conference in berlin which will assess dickens 's relevance today , talks of a " unique audience that is not subdivided " .  " his appeal crosses generations . it 's like harry potter , written for children and adopted by adults . that 's why he 's still there in popular culture , " he says . there is a universal kind of " survival struggle " at play in many of the stories , he adds . " his characters are in a world which does not have a welfare state . it 's a world without a safety net and they are facing basic problems of getting enough to eat , finding friendship , staying warm -- basic problems that people around the world still face . " despite the harsh social realities , some maintain that it is the fossilised version of london that charms international audiences -- his street urchins and perennially fog-bound urban landscapes provide a definitive , quintessential version of englishness that says this side of dickens hit him when a writer from shanghai came to visit .  " it was her first time here and she wanted to see dickens 's london . i could n't think of where to take her to show her the mud , fog , narrow lanes and high tenements of his fiction . she ended up in starbucks , looking for men in bowler hats . on her second visit , i took her to the ye olde cheshire cheese pub on fleet street , a distilled bit of dickens . "  this is the " heritage dickens " that professor john says has helped to transform dickens into an international tourist phenomenon . the regular costume-drama tv adaptations have aided the fossilisation , she says . " very few of them are done in modern dress , in the way you see many shakespearean adaptations . " dickens world , the themed area in kent that includes a great expectations log flume , a haunted house of ebenezer scrooge and a play area called fagin 's den , resurrected the debate around the with some writers accusing the owners of putting marketability over artistic integrity .  mr schweizer does not dispute that the three components -- dickens , britishness and the 19th century -- have become inseparable to some degree . yet there is so much more at work in his novels aside from nostalgia , he says . the relevance lies in his description of the urban condition . the dickens festival in the netherlands is perhaps the biggest dedicated annual event , with 160,000 people attending , many in period costume . a large number choose to dress up as chimney sweeps and orphans , a reminder of the timeless nature of dispossession and social injustice . " he was one of the first people to write in an age of modernity as someone witnessing the speeding up of life and travel and communication . dickens 's england is one we can relate to , " says schweizer .  werner offers the same explanation for his international appeal . " his london was the first city of the urban , industrial age and we are still living in that kind there are still poor housing conditions , there is still the red tape of bleak house -- 1851 was the year of the great exhibition in london and dickens wrote bleak house as a counterpoint to that celebration . in it was also the debate around supporting charitable works in africa when there was abject poverty on your doorstep . these big issues are still with us .  " dickens is incredibly popular in a country like china , perhaps because they are going through a similar experience to 19th-century urban british cities in that the city is sucking people in from the countryside , breaking up the family , and leading people to want to rise up the social scale . "  litt , meanwhile , can see why dickens is big in america . " his characters take a very american trajectory -- they give you the idea that anyone can rise from the bottom and live the dream . "  what has been acknowledged as especially remarkable about dickens 's fiction is the ease of its adaptability to film and stage . he is the case that his stories have been kept alive , and made more commercial , through this medium . television adaptations have followed at a steady flow over the decades .  in fact , it could be argued that dickens 's readers are increasingly not readers at all , but cinema-goers whose favourite dickensian memories are celluloid ones . ever since the first adaptation of a christmas carol in 1902 , film-makers have identified all the markings of cinema language in his work , from montages to cliff-hangers to colourful dialogue to cinematic pace . sergei eisenstein , george bernard shaw , and dw griffith contended that dickens wrote in a cinematic language years before cinema . there is a clear cinematic quality to his description as chapters open with large , framing panoramic sweeps -- the widescreen shot -- and then home in on the particular -- a household , a character , a street .  anthony wall , the series editor of bbc 's arts strand arena , has directed dickens on film , a documentary which makes a claim for dickens as the progenitor of film . on 15 december , and be broadcast on television in early january . wall suggests it is the constant reinterpretation of dickens on film that has given , and will continue to give , the writer his commercial longevity .  " dickens lives on as strong as ever but that 's as much due to the success of cinema and television adaptations as it is to the book themselves . they 're there , unchanging forever , but their stay on film is a fascinating trip through the last 100 years . there 's every reason to suppose that will be true of the next 100 , " he says .  just great : best dickens biographies  not only meant for newcomers in dickens 's world , but for seasoned travellers there , claire tomalin 's superb biography stands out as the best general passport issued this year : ' charles dickens : a life ' ( viking , ? 30 ) .  however , the bicentenary year has stocked the shelves with other top-drawer commemorations . merging biography into criticism , robert douglas-fairhurst , in ' asks why , and how , the hyperactive young pretender of the 1830s so suddenly won the superstar status that has never dimmed . in contrast , dickens 's first biographer , john forster , told the life as an almost predestined ascent to greatness . a sumptuous illustrated abridgement of forster 's 1874 ' the life of charles dickens ' ( sterling , ? 30 ) includes a grand gallery of images . ' charles dickens ' by his great-great-great granddaughter lucinda dickens hawksley ( andre deutsch , ? 30 ) is an evocative collection of documents ; worthwhile shorter books include ' dickens 's women ' by anne isba ( continuum , ? 14.99 ) and michael slater 's ' the genius of dickens ' ( duckworth , ? 10.99 ) .  boyd tonkin  david nicholls : why i adapted dickens  " i grew up on the musical ' oliver ' . that was my idea of dickens . i must have been about 13 or 14 when i took a deep breath and got the rather intimidating book , and found it really engaging . thought it was an extraordinary book that i could identify with very much . i found it engaging , exciting and very touching , even if i did n't understand all of it by any means . i skipped over some passages , but as a way into adult literature , it was perfect . there are lots of writers who have influenced me but certainly my love of adult literature was inspired by dickens and george orwell , to a certain extent .  ' great expectations ' is a book that has always stayed with me and of all the authors i love , dickens has not really influenced my writing but he has stayed with me the longest .  i initially said no to adapting ' great expectations ' because the david lean film cast a long shadow .  it was also my favourite novel , which was a reason to adapt it , and also a reason not to adapt it . you inevitably immerse yourself in a book when you are adapting . it can become over-familiar and you see its flaws . i .  i read it again and i was moved by it again . i also sat down to watch the david lean film after a deep breath , as i had never actually seen it . it was terrific , but the bits it leaves out are not the bits i would leave out . inevitably , you have to make choices when you adapt , and i felt there was enough material in the book that could justify taking another look at it .  i was pretty faithful to the text , but when you adapt , it is a combination of original work and the screenwriters ' view of the book . there are a lot of things that are reported in the novel that you will actually see this time around .  like any victorian novel , it contains a lot of exposition -- and within that , there are things that happen off stage , which can be put into a film . you see things in this film version that i have not seen in other adaptations , but it is still faithful two that dickens wrote , but it draws on something that is referred to in the book that is not usually seen on screen .  there is a strong thriller element to ' great expectations ' . there 's a sense towards the end of pip as a kind of detective . he uncovers the intrigue of estella 's origin and miss havisham 's past . two thirds of the way into the book , when magwitch returns , the tone changes to one of danger and secrets revealing themselves , and that 's certainly the case in the last third of the film version .  adapting is more editorial than writing an original screenplay . it 's about what to keep in and what to lose . i found it creative and satisfying to write the screenplay for ' great expectations ' . it 's different from writing original material because dickens has done the hard bit . he created miss havisham and magwitch and structured this wonderful plot . that 's where the genius lies .  i read the book ten times before writing the screenplay made notes . i never found myself bored . it is incredibly consistent , with no longueurs or superfluous dialogue . i have always found it moving , even though dickens is not necessarily celebrated as an emotional or romantic writer . it is touching and heartbreaking . in the end , adapting it did n't ruin my enjoyment of the book at all -- and i did n't fall out of love with it .  david nicholls , who is also the author of the bestseller ' one day ' , was speaking to arifa akbar . the new film of ' great expectations ' will be released next year