SPOTY 2011: London 2012 Olympics gives women chance to ...
http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/sport/shart/100022069/spoty-2011-london-2012-olympics-gives-women-chance-to-upstage-their-male-rivals/

Strange as it may seem after the backlash over the all-male shortlist for the BBC Sports Personality of the Year , this has been an excellent week for the cause of British women in sport .  The issue of the media 's attitude towards female athletes has never been so hotly debated , and the ensuing row has given a voice to the likes of Chrissie Wellington , the four-time ironman triathlon champion , that would never have been heard had she made it on to the 10-strong shortlist only to disappear without trace when it came to the public vote .  Remember 2007 when Christine Ohuruogu , fresh from her world 400 metres victory , polled just 0.71 per cent of the public vote to finish 10th and last ?  Had Wellington , Rebecca Adlington or Keri-Anne Payne suffered a similar fate by propping up the list of nominees in the live vote , no-one would have batted an eyelid and the male dominance of the sporting agenda would have continued without comment .  But the fact they did not even make beat the rest of the world -- something the nominated Andy Murray failed to do -- has rightly turned the spotlight on the way women 's sport is viewed by sections of the media and the wider sporting public .  As illuminating as the protests by female athletes , sports officials and politicians has been the depressingly blinkered views of some male sports fans who felt motivated to join the debate on internet forums .  One of the most repeated comments was that they simply had n't heard of the female athletes who felt so hard done by , with the exception perhaps of double Olympic champion Adlington .  Well QED . It is precisely because of their lack of media exposure that news of their world-beating achievements has failed to register with the sports pages-reading public .  Either that , or there are some fans who simply ca n't bring themselves to go beyond the football , cricket and rugby pages to the hinterland of general sport .  But at least the issue has now been identified and brought into the open . Inadvertently , done female athletes a great service .  The debate about women 's place in sport could not be more timely . The coming year offers a wonderful opportunity for female athletes to stand shoulder with their male colleagues and in many cases upstage them .  The Olympics are one of the few sporting events where there is no gender inequality , despite the crass attempts by the middle-aged men who sit in charge of world boxing and badminton to create unnecessary distinctions by suggesting that female athletes should be made to wear skirts . The idea has rightly been rubbished .  But in terms of how medals are celebrated and reported on by the media , there is no discrimination when it comes to the Olympics or Paralympics . In the equestrian events , men and women even compete for the same medals .  In other disciplines , a gold medal is a gold medal , whether it is won by a woman or a man . Few would dispute that the star of the 2004 Athens Olympics from a British point of view was double champion next summer , then she too will surely be the story of the Games .  Both Holmes and Radcliffe are former winners of the Sports Personality of the Year award -- Holmes after her Olympic double and Radcliffe two years earlier after breaking the marathon world record for the first time .  The chances are that London 2012 will produce another female winner . Victoria Pendleton perhaps , now that she has multiple medal chances in the velodrome , or Jessica Ennis if she can rediscover her heptathlon dominance . Or maybe Katharine Grainger , who is now the favourite to win rowing gold with partner Anna Watkins after taking silver at the last three Games .  The bigger question is whether a woman can win the BBC award in a non-Olympic year , but the controversy of the last few days should ensure that , when future shortlists are chosen , our female world-beaters are not so blithely overlooked .