Obama, the Christmas crooner! Barack sings with Santa and ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2068932/Obama-Christmas-crooner-Barack-sings-Santa-Michelle-duets-Kermit-hundreds-join-First-Family-light-National-Tree.html

Obama , the Christmas crooner ! Barack sings with Santa and Michelle duets with Kermit , as hundreds join First Family to light up the National Tree  President Barack Obama got into the holiday spirit today as the First Family lit up the new National Christmas Tree just south of the White House .  Taking the stage next to Santa Claus and Kermit the Frog , the president , First Lady Michelle Obama , and their daughters Sasha and Malia officially marked the start of the Christmas season with some carolling before they flipped the switch .  The 26ft Colorado blue spruce was planted in March on the Ellipse , a park that lies between the White House and the National Mall .  Scroll down for video  Carolling : President Barack Obama , First Lady Michelle Obama and their daughters Sasha and Malia sing along with Carson Daly and Kermit the Frog during the annual National Christmas Tree Lighting on the Ellipse today  Magical : The 2011 National Christmas Tree lights the sky just south of the White House , as February toppled the previous tree , which stood in the park since 1978 .  In remarks delivered during the tree-lighting ceremony , attended by hundreds , President Obama briefly retold the story of the birth of Jesus Christ and linked the religious leader to his own faith .  Little helpers : First Lady Michelle Obama and Kermit the Frog read a book to children during the National Christmas Tree lighting ceremony  ' T was the Night Before Christmas ' : Mrs Obama was joined by the Jim Henson muppet for a reading of the Christmas classic  First Family : Mrs Obama sings with daughters Malia ( left ) and Sasha ( centre ) , and Kermit the Frog , while Mr Obama sings with Santa Claus during the 2011 National Christmas Tree Lighting ceremony  Seasons greetings : Mr Obama greets a crowd with his daughter Sasha ( front left ) and First Lady Michelle Obama ( back left ) , during the 89th annual lighting of the National Christmas Tree  Mr Obama urged the crowd to be generous and to help others in need during , let 's help those who need it most : the homeless , the hungry , the sick and shut-in , ' he said . ' In this season of plenty , let 's reach out to those who struggle to find work or provide for their families . '  Mr Obama welcomed troops returning home in time for the holiday , and asked Americans to express their gratitude to service members .  ' In this season of generosity , let 's give thanks and honour to our troops and our veterans and their families who 've sacrificed so much for us , ' he said .  Address : Mr Obama urged the crowd to be generous and to help others in need during the holidays . ' In this season of hope , let 's help those who need it most : the homeless , the hungry , the sick and shut-in , ' he said .  Bundled up : President Obama , the First Lady , daughters Malia and Sasha ( obscured ) and mother-in-law Marian Robinson ( far left ) arrive for the lighting and the First Family wave to the hundred-strong crowd at the Ellipse  Mr Obama was joined at the ceremony by his wife , Michelle ; daughters Sasha and Malia ; and mother-in-law Marian Robinson .  Before the ladies hit the switch , Mr Obama said : ' This is the new tree . I know it 's not quite as big as the old tree . But it 's going to take time to grow . But we 're going to fill it up with some spirit and start a new tradition right now . '  The First Lady also took the stage to read Clement Clarke Moore 's poem ' T was the Night Before Christmas ' with Muppet star Kermit the Frog and Santa Claus , as children gathered around .  Big smiles : Mr Obama laughs as he enjoys the show with daughters Sasha ( left ) and Malia ( right )  Making memories : Mr Obama and his daughters Malia ( left ) and Sasha ( right ) laugh together during the ceremony  So much to see : President Obama and ) look at the program during the lighting of the National Christmas Tree  The lighting ceremony , hosted by television 's Carson Daly , included performances of Christmas carols and tunes by pop group Big Time Rush , English singer Ellie Goulding , pop band OneRepublic , country singer Rodney Atkins , soul songstress Marsha Ambrosius and the Airmen of Note , a jazz ensemble of the United States Air Force .  The new National Christmas Tree was planted in March in a New Jersey nursery .