Gov't declares 3 days of mourning after deadly floods
http://citifmonline.com/2015/06/04/govt-declares-three-days-of-mourning-for-flooding-victims/

gov't declares 3 days of mourning after deadly floods  president john dramani mahama has declared three days of mourning for the victims of wednesday 's floods and the goil fuel station fire that killed over hundred people .  he said government has also released an amount of gh ? 50 million to support victims affected by flooding in the country .  this was announced by president john dramani mahama after he held a crisis meeting with security chiefs at the flagstaff house on thursday .  he also directed the national disaster management organisation ( nadmo ) , to establish emergency centres in the country to rescue flooding victims .  " such rescue operations will continue until the weekend , sunday . on monday , we will observe three days of national mourning for the victims of the fire disaster and the flooding . flags will fly at half-mast from monday for three days , " he said .  president mahama further called on ghanaians to eschew actions that could undermine the peace in the country saying " as we mourn the together as one team and one nation ... and be determined never to have a repeat of such a national disaster . "  he said " drastic steps are necessary here if we are to permanently address this perennial problem . we will intensify our efforts to expand a modernized drainage system . in this endeavor i request your understanding and cooperation of ghanaians to set right what has been wronged with our country for far too long . "  " we can not continue to allow a situation where the convenience of a few undermines the safety of the many .  " our first priority now is to save lives and prevent any further suffering of our people but beyond that we 'll take the tough measures that are necessary to prevent such disasters from occurring in the future . "  he said the national call centre has also been activated adding that vodafone , mtn and airtel subscribers can call 112 during emergency situations .