Tribute to RT Sackey, Former Headmaster Of Prempeh College ...
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/features/Tribute-to-R-T-Sackey-Former-Headmaster-Of-Prempeh-College-1985-95-360976

during the latter part of the twentieth century , i got admitted into prempeh college . my decision to attend prempeh college that time was based on myriad of factors which included the quality of learning environment , discipline and for my dad , the location factor . i found the school-the learning environment and landscape to be academically uplifting . ruben tetteh sackey ( aka tusker or r.t ) , who a decade earlier had taken the tutelage of the school from m.k atiemo as the headmaster , had the onerous task of a " system restore " of the school to meet the designs of the founding fathers . he worked hard as a headmaster to raise the profile of the school and it became like a city on a hill . today , prempeh college continues to produce more science and engineering students for universities than any school in the country . when i first entered the school in 1993 , prempeh college was more than a military camp . strict enforcement of rules and regulation was a daily staple . all school gatherings devotion/assembly and those tutors who absented themselves were penalized . he was present at every official gathering of the school and he would seize the opportunity to talk to his " gentlemen " and garnish his admonitions with some maxims in latin . one particular saying which is still green in my mind which i would not forget even on my deathbed is : " memento te mortalem esse " -meaning , " remember that you are mortal " .  during his time at prempeh college , the schedule for morning assembly was designed in such a way that every monday morning was " courtesy campaign " where ethics , etiquettes , and rules for good living were preached and taught . his two favourites hymns which never got missing during a major events were " how sweet the name of jesus " and " jesus shall reign where'er the sun " at prempeh college during the time of r.t sackey , cheating in end of term or year examinations was tantamount to dismissal . such letters were common during his days . he was someone who would never bend leaving campus without an attracted suspension at the first instance and the second offence was dismissal . prempeh college during r.t sackey 's time was very nostalgic . my best moments growing up in life were at prempeh college . it became a watershed for me . it was the place where i picked the best friends i have . he inspired us . r.t sackey was phenomenal . the school won the first then brilliant science and mathematics quiz in 1994 . when the first batch of senior secondary school results became a national opprobrium , he provided a leadership which put prempeh college results among the best in the following year . he told us that he did not only want to raise men who were great in minds , but also men who were strong . every student during his time was required to come to school with a well sharpened cutlass and a hoe . that was to say that weeding of lawns also become part of the integrated training at sofoline . he was a strong man . he had the courage to take decisions which of r. t sackey lied in the fact that he was both tough-minded and tenderhearted . he was characterized by incisive thinking , realistic appraisal and decisive judgment . his strong austere qualities made for his firmness of purpose and he achieved a lot for the school . it was martin luther king jr who once said in life there are some sad moments which can not be completely explained by those symbols called words . their meaning can only be articulated by the inaudible language of the heart . such is the moment we are experiencing-the death of r. t sackey . like robert kennedy , he braved the disapproval of his fellows and the censure of his colleagues . he had a moral courage to do what was right and he was convinced of the same . death has punctuated the great sentence of the life and times of r.t sackey . again , martin luther king jr reminds us that " death is not period that punctuates the sentence of life but a comma that punctuates it to a lofty significance . " anytime i visit prempeh college myself , r.t sackey lives with us in time , hearts and minds . the boys he groomed are an eternal reminder about the great feat he achieved for ghana and beyond . today as we celebrate the life of r.t sackey , i would quote a requiem verse he liked to quote from the greek new testament : " i tell you this , brothers : flesh and blood can not inherit the kingdom of god , nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable . " it is sad to lose a loved one . it is sad to stand before the bier of great man like r.t sackey . to the family , i know that nothing that i say or write can bring comfort to you . nothing that anyone else can say can bring comfort . but the words of a galilean peasant : " peace i leave with you ; my peace i give you . i do not give to you as the world gives . do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid " . certainly our hearts are not not only in the noon time of self-actualization and fulfillment but in the midnight of despair and sorrow . we are overcomers . the solemn words of isaac watts so wonderfully assures us : our god , our help in ages past , our hope for years to come , our shelter from the stormy blast , and our eternal home . under the shadow of thy throne thy saints have dwelt secure ; sufficient is thine arm alone , and our defense is sure . we shall meet on the streets of new jerusalem and we shall say that " oh death , where is your victory ? " tribute by appiah kusi adomako , prempeh college old student guggisberg house ( 1993-1995 ) appiahkusi@gmail.com , accra