'Big Brother Canada': Behind-The-Scenes At A Live Taping
http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/2013/03/13/big-brother-canada-live-show-taping_n_2855546.html

' big brother canada ' : behind-the-scenes at a live taping  last thursday i had the opportunity to attend the taping of a " big brother canada " elimination episode .  i ventured out into the scary unknown of the suburbs and joined up with other " big brother canada " fans to see just what goes on in that mysterious studio . here are some things i observed :  1 . the studio is difficult to find . it 's in the middle of nowhere , out in the vast suburbia of the greater toronto area . when i got off the bus , i wandered around for about 10 minutes , desperately trying to avoid getting lost in a place that appeared to have undergone the rapture . i finally had to bite the bullet and ask the first stranger i saw for directions , and he looked at me as if my non-threatening exterior was just a fa ? ade hiding a potential axe murderer .  2 . i waited with the die-hard " big brother canada " fans outside the studio opened to us . shout-out to the guy in front of me , who was wearing a nice suit and a bright orange scarf . bold choice , sir .  3 . the studio holds three sections of chairs -- one of which is partially behind the stage , so i 'm not sure what they were looking at -- at the front of the 11 , 000 sq . ft . " big brother canada " house . a few different textures ( like brick and stucco ) are projected onto the side of the white house to make it look more realistic . the episode we were watching was also projected onto the side .  4 . the chairs are extremely close together . if you do n't like rubbing bums with strangers ( and who does n't ? ) , you probably do n't want to attend a " big brother canada " taping .  how do you feel about the first season of " big brother canada " ?  5 . when i walked into the studio , at least four on . i like to think this is their only task .  6 . at commercial breaks , we had the opportunity to win " big brother canada " merchandise ( shot glasses , beer koozies , and t-shirts ) but as we had to either dance or answer " big brother " trivia ( neither of which i can do ) , i refrained .  7 . i did n't anticipate how much applauding there would be . we had to applaud when arisa entered the studio at the beginning , before and after every commercial break , whenever anyone answered a trivia question correctly , whenever a new person appeared on the stage , and whenever arisa or the producer asked us how we were feeling or whether we were excited . have mercy on our hands , bbcan .  8 . people are crazy about " big brother . " some audience members have a seemingly photographic memory for details of every single " big brother " episode , from all versions of the show .  9 . arisa cox is awesome . she a lot of tv ( like " downton abbey , " " the walking dead , " and " the vampire diaries " ) .  10 . my audience overwhelmingly thought that peter would win the whole thing , with gary a close second . only four people thought that a.j. would win it all , and they were all members of his family . poor guy .  tune in to slice for new episodes on wednesdays , thursdays , and sundays ; " big brother after dark " seven days a week ; or go online for the 24-hour live feed .  close  ?  " big brother canada " season 1 cast  of  ?  ?  toronto socialite with a passion for fashion .  a sweet dental hygienist from scarborough , this gem is single and ready to mingle .  this calculating professional youtuber from new brunswick approaches everything like a mathematical equation .  a self-proclaimed party girl from fort mcmurray who knows how to get what she wants .  quick on his feet , this slick salesman  a small town elementary school teacher from nova scotia with a big personality .  an adorable and innocent east coast farm boy with a strong work ethic and a heart of gold .  an exotic persian beauty from edmonton who 's out to prove there is more to her than what meets the eye .  cocky but lovable , this doctoral student from vancouver believes his phd in social psychology is his key to the grand prize .  free-spirited and sporty , this tomboy from toronto loves life and is n't afraid of a little competition .  a hopeless romantic and charming down-home east coaster .  a thrill-seeking tanning salon owner from toronto who works hard and plays even harder .  a sweet , smart , super fan from richmond hill who plans to do his thesis on " big brother . "  a loving mama bear from vancouver with a passion for hip-hop and her community .