One Fated Knight bags it chic
http://www.straight.com/life/361221/one-fated-knight-bags-it-chic

One Fated Knight bags it chic  These days , most indie designers start off by selling their wares through Etsy or craft fairs . Then , maybe after a year or so , their label gains enough traction to score a deal with a local retailer -- or two , if they 're lucky .  But Jennifer Yau is not most indie designers . This stylish , young firecracker knows how to get products onto shelves . She served 10 years in the wholesale trenches , working for a global denim brand . So by the time she launched her own handbag label , One Fated Knight , it took her less than a season to get her gorgeous leather goods into 30 stores across Canada , including Plenty ( various locations ) , Fine Finds ( 1014 Mainland Street ) , and Riot Clothing ( 1395 Commercial Drive ) .  It 's an impressive feat , and one that 's been a long time coming . As the Vancouver native recalls , even though she 'd worked her way up to a fairly she had been itching to strike out on her own for quite a while .  " After about two years of repping for the same brand , I quickly realized that really was n't my passion after all , " says Yau , who recently sat down with the Straight at an East Van caf ? . " Even when I was living in New York , I was still working for the same brand -- although it was a change of scenery . But it was the same job . Sure , it was a better position and I had more responsibility , but ultimately I lost my creative edge .  " It was like 50 shades of blue , " she continues with a laugh before mocking her sales banter of yesteryear . " ' This one has three whiskers here -- so it 's a completely different jean ! Do you want it skinny , straight , or boot cut ? ' "  Of course , these days , there 's nothing rote or disingenuous about her sales pitch . She genuinely loves her product are beyond beautiful . The Bishop ( $198 ) , for example , is a classic woven bucket tote that looks like it could come from any era and will only get better with age . The same goes for the Archbishop ( $168 ) , a chic , tasselled hobo that , like most of her designs , comes in cognac or black . The most hipster bag in this collection is the eggshell Count ( $228 ) , a leather backpack with brown suede trim and antique-finished hardware .  In addition to creating timeless bags , one of Yau 's main goals with One Fated Knight was to make her pieces relatively affordable without resorting to pleather . Even though designers like Marc Jacobs are a major source of inspiration for Yau , at this point in her life she ca n't justify those kinds of prices .  " I know that high-end is very coveted and that it exudes luxury and whatnot , " the designer says . " But I thought that I can still do that within an attainable price point because with the want to buy stuff , but they 're not buying $1,500 bags -- well , the average person is n't , anyway . I mean , there 's definitely a market for the Chanels , the LVs Louis Vuittons , and all that . But I 'm not going after that market because that 's not someone I relate to yet -- maybe in 10 years , when I 'm making more dough , but right now it 's like , ' Rent or an LV bag ? ' "