How to curb bureaucratic empire-building: Goar
http://www.thestar.com/opinion/commentary/2013/03/13/how_to_curb_bureaucratic_empirebuilding_goar.html

How to curb bureaucratic empire-building : Goar  Donald Savoie is making politicians and bureaucrats squirm with his latest book , Whatever Happened to the Music Teacher ? It challenges the widely held belief that government should be run like a business .  The young Acadian came to Ottawa with impeccable credentials . He was fluently bilingual , had a doctorate from Oxford University and a passion for public service .  There was one problem . Donald Savoie did n't seem to understand the bureaucratic culture . He went to his deputy minister early in his career and said he felt there were too many people in the department for the amount of work required .  " The reaction was swift , " Savoie recounts . " He proceeded to tell me that I was showing a disturbing level of disloyalty to the department . He pointed out that if I truly felt this way , I should seriously think about leaving . "  That might be one of the dumbest pieces of advice ever doled out by a senior government official . Brunswick roots and became a professor at the Universit ? de Moncton where he wrote more than 40 books about politics , public administration and the decline of democracy . He is now an internationally respected scholar with seven honorary degrees and an armload of awards , medals and prizes . He has advised prime ministers , premiers , corporate leaders , the UN and the World Bank .  The government of Canada could have had all that talent -- but drove Savoie out .  The Moncton author , now in his 66th year , is still making politicians and bureaucrats squirm . His latest book , Whatever Happened to the Music Teacher ? , challenges the widely held belief that government should be run like a business .  ( The title -- likely to puzzle non-Maritimers -- came from a conversation Savoie had with a leading Canadian businessman . The Nova Scotia-born magnate had grown up in a small village where the music teacher , a provincial employee , worked alongside the two-person bureau of the Department of Natural Resources . " Today we are told we , " the businessman said . " However , the Department of Natural Resources is now housed in two fine buildings employing 150 people . " )  To Savoie , this anecdote encapsulated what has happened to Canada 's public service over the past 30 years : front-line workers have been sacrificed to make way for offices full of paper-pushers , managers , supervisors and evaluators . " It is ill-conceived , costly and misguided . "  The bottom-line doctrine took hold under prime minister Brian Mulroney , who decided the public sector should operate with the same market discipline as private enterprise . His four successors have adhered to it slavishly .  It has never worked and it never will , Savoie says .  The first problem is that the public sector is not in the business of making money . In the absence of profit-loss statement , it has no way of measuring how well it is doing . So it fabricates yardsticks and backs them up with reams of reports showing how efficient , effective and indispensable it is .  The second problem " the process by which industry gets rid of outmoded products and develops new ones . Bureaucrats do n't have the power to pull the plug and politicians seldom do it for fear of offending vested interests . " The problem is not that government is spending more on new things , but that it spends massively on old things . "  The closest the public sector comes to creative destruction is when the prime minister takes a good whack at the bureaucracy as Stephen Harper is doing now , Savoie says . But the wrong people get cut and the numbers soon creep back up . When Mulroney took office , 70 per cent of federal employees worked in the field delivering services : settling new immigrants , assisting laid-off workers , running airports , preventing pollution and making sure Canadians got their pensions , passports and baby bonuses . Today the proportion is 57 per cent -- and shrinking .  The remedy is obvious , Savoie says with the same clear-sightedness that once scandalized his boss . Figure out what a government department is supposed to do  Ottawa still wo n't like it , but this time it comes from a man with a global reputation for smart public policy at a time when taxpayers want to know why they pay so many bureaucrats to provide such poor service .