Day 2 B.C. boys Triple A championships: Howie's Hamper looks at ...
http://blogs.theprovince.com/2013/03/13/day-2-b-c-boys-triple-a-championships-howies-hamper-looks-at-the-round-of-sweet-16/

here 's the wrap from all eight games of the sweet 16 round today at the bc senior boys triple a basketball championships at the langley events centre , including kitsilano 's win over terry fox . keep checking back on this posting for more as the day progresses :  langley -- the south kamloops titans have earned their shot at a berth in the final four . the okanagan champions built enough cushion from a 29-18 halftime lead to hold off the chard-charging belmont bulldogs in the eighth and final contest of the sweet 16 dance card . jacob adams and elijah hillis-gold , the south kamloops back court , were solild throughout , especially adams early and hillis-gold late , pair showcasing their ability to muscle their way into the paint with solid handles and an aggressive attacking mentality . adams finished with a team-high 25 points in the victory , while hillis-gold added 19 . reid sellars was a constant three-point threat , finishing with 12 points on 4-of-9 shooting from distance . the most unstoppable player on the floor , however , the field , and finished with a game-high 32 points . belmont had grabbed the 20th and final berth to the championships when it defeated the oak bay bays in a challenge game following the release of the tournament draw . the titans face vancouver 's kitsilano blue demons in the quarterfinals on thursday ( 3 p.m . ) .  wrca 69 enver creek 66 ( ot )  langley -- third time was almost the charm for surrey 's enver creek cougars . despite two previous losses to the crosstown rival white rock christian academy warriors , the cougars were looking like a team ready to giant killers , and on wednesday they almost pulled it off . enver creek 's aaron nand hit two free throws with 6/10ths of a second remaining in regulation to force overtime , but the warriors scored the first five points of the extra session , battling and clawing its way to a 69-66 win . " enver is a great team , they have a lot of length and a lot of weapons , " said wrca head coach dale shury of the surrey rcmp classic and the fraser valley tournament . " i knew we had to play close to our best game to beat them . we did n't , but i ca n't take anything away from the effort that they gave tonight . " the warriors bolted out to a 23-10 lead , and enver creek trailed by as many as 15 points before the phil deeks ' -coached squad made a rip-raoring fourth-quarter comeback . four players -- ( wrca 's sam ykema , peter spangehl , vartan taneilian , enver 's gurkirat kular , david ahmad ) -- never left the floor , logging all 45 minutes . tanielian led the warriors with 20 points , spangehl added 19 and 16 rebounds , while matt perrin scored 14 . for the cougars , kular scored 23 points , rajan gill 12 , nick jhauj 11 and ahmad 10 . wrca faces wj mouat in a quarterfinal on thursday ( 4:45 p.m . ) .  kitsilano 65 terry fox 54 langley -- randy coutts called it a case of first-game-itis . that and a stubborn crew of demons scratch and claw for everything they got wednesday en route to a 65-54 victory and a berth in thursday 's quarterfinal round . " they did n't go away and they played good on the interior , they did a good job of stopping luka from getting the ball , " blue demons head coach randy coutts said of the defending b.c. champion ravens , who despite heavy off-season graduation losses , did their best to limit the effectiveness of kits ' blue-chip forward luka zaharijevic . " but that said , we looked offensively stagnant with the ball , " continued coutts . " our guys , their legs looked heavy and i do n't know if that was the first game of the tournament or what . hopefully this is a wakeup call for us . " the blue demons were set to scout the day 's last game , between okanagan champion south kamloops , and vancouver island challenge winner belmont , both surprise entries in the 20-team field . " we 'll be there to scout them out , " said coutts , whose team had two appearances . " i have no idea of either team . so we 'll put together a game plan and try to get ready . " thursday 's game was tied 28-28 at the half , and the ravens , who had three grade 10 players on the floor down the stretch drive of the game , pulled to within four late before coming up short . zaharijevic had 19 points , 15 rebounds and five blocks , teammate noah derappard-yuswack 16 points and 15 rebounds . tom campbell added 14 for the winners . the ravens top two scorers were 10th graders . guard liam hancock had 11 points and nine rebounds , forward mike west a team-high 15 points .  walnut grove 74 sir winston churchill 62  langley -- they met in the seventh grade at drive basketball academy , and pretty soon afterwards , jadon cohee and mindy minhas had become fast friends . " he plays the wing and i play the point , " cohee said of the pair during their spring and summer club seasons . " we 're best friends . for the first time in their high school careers , the pair had to oppose each other , and what unfolded was a showdown of sorts between two of b.c. 's elite grade 11 talents . in the end , despite a prodigious line score that read 27 points , 16 rebounds and seven assists , the 6-foot-5 guard minhas and the rest of vancouver 's sir winston churchill bulldogs found themselves on the short end of a 74-62 score to cohee and the rest of langley 's no. 1-ranked walnut grove gators , who move on to the quarterfinals tonight ( 8:15 p.m. ) against the burnaby south rebels . " i am looked upon to score a lot but my whole goal was to shut down mindy , " admitted cohee , who nonetheless finished with 21 points , six rebounds and five assists . " he played a hell of a game . once we 're on the court , the friendship is off . but after 40 minutes , we 're friends again . " minhas concurred , but was having a hard time with the fact draw was over . " if you 're not first , you 're last , " said minhas . " i am going to be thinking about this all of next season . but i know we are only going to get better from here . " the bulldogs played about as perfect a game as could be expected against a gators team which returned almost all of its talent from the team which lost in last season 's final , sits no. 1 in the province 's big 10 rankings , and is coming off a win over white rock christian in the fraser valley final . " sometimes you have to win ugly , gritty and we did that today , " said gators ' head coach george bergen , whose team led just 68-62 with 2:20 remaining when churchill guard andrew claur drove the baseline for a layin . " they had scouted us fairly well because they did a good job in defensive transition opportunities . but in the second half , we got grittier and we won the battle on the glass . " jesse mushiana sam shin scored 15 for the gators .  st . george 's 93 claremont 80 langley -- for a guy who is a raw rookie to all the splendour of playing on b.c. basketball 's highest stage , drew urquhart does n't shy away from speaking his mind . " the lights are bright here and it was intimidating , but we came out and played hard and aggressive , " saint george 's 6-foot-7 grade 11 swingman said after his team advanced to thursday 's elite 8 quarterfinals following a 93-80 win over victoria 's claremont spartans . " today , my shot was falling but i stayed aggressive . " that aggressiveness has come from now winning four sudden-elimination games in its post season , and urquhart , behind a 26-point , 21-rebound performance , was helping to lead the way . " " i give drew an eight-out-of-10 , " said saints ' head coach bill disbrow . " i think he was real good , but i think he can be better and i think he will be tomorrow . " urquhart had a lot of 12 rebounds , while guard deklan chung scored 21 . the saints will get all they can handle thursday from the yale lions in the quarterfinals .  burnaby south 73 sardis 69 langley -- the burnaby south rebels spent an entire regular season testing and re-testing their ability to bend but not break . it 's an old clich ? for sure , but one that a young team took to heart , putting it on display over a fourth quarter wednesday morning that carried them into the quarterfinals here at the b.c. senior boys triple a basketball championships . " in the last three weeks we have been doing that , playing through for the whole 40 minutes , " said rebels head coach david smith after his charges built a 14-point lead near the end of the third quarter , then gave nearly all of it back before re-trenching to stop chilliwack 's sardis falcons 73-69 in the first of eight sweet 16 matchups at the langley events centre . when south point guard gino pagbilao drained a three-point bucket with 1:38 left in the third , burnaby lead and all of the game 's momentum . but a sardis team , making its school 's first b.c , tourney appearance in the 80-year history of the school , came storming back . and when falcons ' grade 11 big man hayden lejeune was fouled taking a three-pointer , he was able to step to the line with a chance to pull his team to within 71-70 . lejeune made the first two , then missed the third . after the rebels made a free throw to make it 72-69 , sardis ' cam servatius launched a trey that could have tied the score with 5.2 seconds remaining . the rebels , the lower mainland finalists , advance to face the winner a later wednesday game between walnut grove and sir winston churchill in thursday 's elite 8 quarterfinals . " that was a good team , and we had to stop the big guy , " smith said of sardis ' lejeune , " so we junked it up on defence and we seemed to stall them a little . everyone worked hard and we took control of . " pagbilao finished with 15 points and seven assists , while fellow senior dejan posavljak , the 6-foot-6 forward , scored 14 points . two other rebels hit double figures , as martin bogajev scored 17 and nick garcha 13 . lejeune finished with 17 points and 14 rebounds , while guard mike gregory led the falcons in scoring with 18 points . jason kroeker with 11 and eric rogers with 10 also hit double figures in the loss for the falcons . smith credited the step-by-step focus of the season for making a difference in the level of team that took to the floor wednesday versus the one that opened the start of the season in late november . " it 's hard to finger one thing , but individually they just got better , " smith said of his team . " and they understood once the pressure was on , that they had to play together and sacrifice . earlier in the season that was n't the case . "  w.j. mouat 74 handsworth 65 langley -- tristan etienne is getting more and more at home team . the talented 6-foot-9 grade 11forward was at his best wednesday , shooting 8-of-9 from the field and finishing with 21 points , 18 rebounds and five blocks as the w.j. mouat hawks of abbotsford outlasted north vancouver 's handsworth royals 74-65 . " he struggled a bit in the fraser valley championships , and for him it is all about energy and playing as hard as he can , " admitted mouat head coach rich ralston . " there was no doubt today that he came in ready to go . " handsworth jumped out to a 25-16 lead early , but the hawks went on a 26-7 run to build a 42-33 lead at the half , then found ways to hunker down and answer each and every royals push over the second half . " it always helps my confidence when i can come out and help my team get a win , " said etienne , who still has one more high school season remaining but is starting to hold the attention of collegiate programs . " i am just trying to help us keep moving we are hoping that we find our peak right here at the end of the season . " both etienne and guard corey hauck got stronger and stronger as the game progressed . hauck and fellow point guard jesse feenstra each finished with 12 points , while forward daniel pawliuk and mitch howden each reached double figures on offence as well , with 13 and 10 points respectively . handsworth swingman luka petkovic hit a trio of triple early and finished with a game-high 24 points for the royals , while point guard adam karmali added 12 points and guard arman amini added 10 points . the hawks , a fourth-place finisher at the fraser valleys , advance to meet the winner of a later wednesday game between white rock christian academy and enver creek .  yale 95 caledonia 63 langley -- jj pankratz has already got his collegiate basketball future figured out . jauquin bennett-boire has a few years left to figure it , but he 's already playing like a full-fledged senior . that was the story wednesday in the sweet 16 round , as the two standouts , as the lions weathered through a stern push from terrace 's caledonia kermodes to score a 93-65 victory . the simon fraser-bound pankratz scored 25 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in the victory , while bennett-boire , a 6-foor-1 grade 10 guard , continued to show his remarkably mature game , scoring 21 points , dishing 11 assists and grabbing six rebounds for the winners . abe falls , the under-rated frontcourt starter , finished with 13 points and 17 rebounds in the victory , which sends the fraser valley 's no. 3 seed into the elite 8 quarterfinals on thursday against the winner of the st. george's-claremont game . the kermodes , who shot 11-of-29 from the arc , got 21 points from patrick kurek , who himself was a mind-numbing 7-of-14 from distance . reegan maki and marcus mackay each scored 13 points in the loss for the kermodes .  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .  head of the class 2014  recognizing courage and commitment in high school sports . for details click here .