New athletics plans include competitive clubs, national focus and ...
http://old.ubyssey.ca/news/new-athletics-523/

new athletics plans include competitive clubs , national focus and outreach  ubc 's new plan for athletics will debut a competitive club category that could bump some varsity teams down in status .  the university is testing a new structure for competitive sports that would focus on national-level athletes , varsity competition and a new category of athletic club . this category would accommodate some of the non-varsity teams that currently operate without funding or facility support .  the new model is based on canada sport for life 's work on creating a pathway for people to stay active from childhood to old age , according to ubc vp students louise cowin .  " we tried to map on various components of what we do to fit within this structure , " she said . " what we want for all students and faculty and staff is to think about engaged individuals in terms of their physical , mental , emotional and social self . "  under the plan , a ubc " sports club " would admit students only , carry support , as well as access to athletics facilities in non-peak times . cowin said any competitive team could be eligible for " sports club " status -- the wrestling club , sailing club and quidditch club would all be in the running .  " say there was a ubc badminton club , which does n't exist right now , that wanted to get a start at ubc . then they would have access to the rec centre in morning or early afternoon time , " she said . " they would be expected to organize their class schedules to make that possible ... and if that did n't work , they could still get access during prime time , but they would have to pay . "  criteria for what separates a varsity team from a competitive club would be set by the new director of the athletics department . external search consultants odgers berndtson are conducting the hiring for the position , and looking to bring in a director by early summer .  the director 's first task will be to review varsity sports -- which exclude some sports that receive the " privilege " of varsity status . some non-varsity clubs have charged that the process to become a varsity team lacks transparency , a criticism upheld by a 2012 external review of ubc 's athletics department .  " those criteria will be clear , and we 'll have a process , which we do n't have right now in terms of how decisions are made , " cowin said . " it is possible that some sports that are currently varsity now might not be when we apply some yet-to-be-established criteria to those . "  other types of competitive clubs could include clubs open to staff , faculty and university residents or organized youth academies . cowin said that ubc 's ultimate frisbee club could fit in the open category . for youth opportunities , cowin cited the students at university hill secondary , which was recently awarded a sports academy status that allows it to allocate time during the day to training , nutrition and sports psychology education . cowin said ubc academies could give the university a leg up in recruiting look to form more partnerships with elite national programs . ubc has one such partnership with swimming canada , which results in non-student olympians swimming alongside varsity athletes . she hopes to see sports institutes relocate to campus in order to bring more researchers and expand coaching training in ubc 's kinesiology department .  the other major change concerns recreation . ubc rec , which is currently run by athletics , could find itself working under the umbrella of student development , the department that runs things like imagine day and the centre for student involvement and careers . cowin said the university is looking for new recreational programming that could involve students who do n't visit rec facilities .  " obviously there has to be a deep collaboration and connection , " cowin said . " there 's a lot of devil in this detail that we have n't even begun to work through yet . it 's just a conceptual model at this time , but we need to get into that nitty-gritty work . "