Hunger pains
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/sports/hockey/jets/hunger-pains-202816941.html

hunger pains  jets starving for a chance to dine at the playoff party  high up on bryan little 's cheekbone -- left side , near his eye -- are the visible remnants of a fairly recent gash . and now that painful reminder has a couple of partners : an ugly cut across the bridge of his nose and a scrape on his upper lip that came thursday night after a collision with florida 's erik gudbranson and the end boards .  this is the face many have seen before -- the face of sacrifice , of commitment , of the price to be paid . and if this were a month from now and little and his winnipeg jets teammates were to find themselves in the postseason , it would be held up and glorified as the visage of a player battling in the stanley cup playoffs .  joe bryksa / winnipeg free press  bryan little has n't played in a post-season game since his rookie season as a pro -- five years ago . purchase photo print  ap  only watch as they were swept by the rangers from the 2007 post-season .  evander kane  right now , that 's still a big ' if ' , what with the jets still staring up at eight teams in the eastern conference standings . but it 's also not being melodramatic to suggest it 's the hunger to get to the postseason that is driving this club right now through a three-game win streak .  yes , there has been a hint of desperation in the collective jets voices of late and a real evidence of it in their game .  and on their faces .  " the last time i played in a playoff game was with the chicago wolves in my first year as a pro , " said little . " that was five years ago .  " anyone that 's never played in a playoff game is pretty hungry to get in there . i know there 's a couple of us guys who have been with atlanta for a long time who have n't played in a playoff game ... last year .  " that 's my dream . "  he 's not alone . of the 28 players now with the jets -- not including rookie jacob trouba , who has yet to suit up -- 16 , or more than half , have never played in a single stanley cup playoff game .  " i 'm just really focussed on these last games to try and change that and make ( playing in the playoffs ) a reality , " said kane . " i really want to play in the playoffs . i do n't want to go home early this year . it 's already been a shortened season and it would be extremely disappointing if we did n't get the job done .  " if we get hot and we win the majority of these last games it 's going to give us a good shot going into the playoffs . once you get in the playoffs anything can happen . it 's cliche , but it 's true . for us it 's an opportunity win and that 's all i opportunity you have no chance . "  what the jets hope to do in the next six games is twofold : 1 . lock up a playoff spot for the franchise for first time since 2006-07 and 2 . begin writing their own postseason history , separate from the atlanta thrashers crew that was swept out of the first round by the new york rangers in its ' one and only trip to the stanley cup playoffs .  " in the past ... i do n't know how it was last year but usually in atlanta , this team has been way out of the playoff position this time of year , " said olli jokinen , a veteran of 1,084 nhl games , but only six in the playoffs . " it 's a great experience for the players and a great challenge at the same time .  " we do n't want to be here in two weeks and say that ' oh , we were close . ' that 's not the mindset we have . we have these couple of days off to get be ready in the playoffs once we get there .  " this is the exciting time of the year . we 're happy that we 're in the position that we can control where we 're going . obvioisly it would be nice to have 10 more points and breathe a little easier but at the same time this team has n't been in the playoffs for a while and for a lot of the players this is a great situation . "  great , only if they can finish the deal here . maybe that , in part , explains why little returned in the third period after taking the hit from gudbranson that opened up his nose and left some wondering if he had busted it .  just for the record , the jets were winning 6-2 when little exited .  " you play every year to play for the stanley cup , " said little . " that 's why you play the regular season . most kids that grow up in canada , that 's their dream : to play in the nhl a chance at the second , you 've got to make it to the playoffs and i can tell you it 's been tough not being there year after year .  " plus , i 'd love to see what it would be like here if there was a playoff game , " little added , with a sly grin . " i think it would be crazy . "  related items  articles  you can comment on most stories on winnipegfreepress.com . you can also agree or disagree with other comments . all you need to do is be a winnipeg free press print or e-edition subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback .