Canadian Interest Rate Rules
http://www.mondaq.com/canada/x/233062/Financial+Services/Canadian+Interest+Rate+Rules

canada : canadian interest rate rules  where loan agreements are governed by canadian law , borrowers and lenders should remain alert to the range of rules contained in canadian legislation and jurisprudence that govern the payment of interest . the following is a summary of key canadian interest rate rules and their practical implications .  ( 1 ) criminal rate of interest  under section 347 of the criminal code ( canada ) , interest rates exceeding 60% per annum are " criminal rates of interest " . section 347 contains two separate offenses . the first applies to those who enter into an agreement to receive interest at a criminal rate and the second to those who actually receive interest payments at a criminal rate . if an agreement permits , but does not require , the payment of interest at a criminal rate , there is no automatic violation . instead , a ' wait-and-see ' approach has been adopted by the courts and , in these circumstances , a violation will only occur where a criminal rate of interest is actually received commercial transaction to explicitly provide for interest at a rate over 60% , loan agreements often include up-front arrangement , commitment and other fees . the broad definition of " interest " in the criminal code captures ordinary commercial interest as well as a broad range of fees , fines and expenses ( including legal expenses ) . other examples include consideration payable to a lender in the form of " equity kickers " such as shares , rights or warrants , which may also be regarded as " interest " . in 2010 , the british columbia court of appeal considered the appropriate treatment of a royalty payable as consideration for a loan to enable a mining development company to acquire licences for a group of properties . the court held that the royalty came within the extended definition of " interest " in the criminal code and constituted illegal interest to the extent that it exceeded 60% per annum .  where the terms of a loan have been agreed upon in good faith by experienced and independently advised commercial parties , the doctrine of notional severance may apply maximum of 60% . the doctrine remains in the discretion of the court but can helpful for lenders since it minimizes the potential for courts to drastically reduce interest rates by severing the entire offending payment provision . a provision in a loan agreement whereby the parties agree to reduce the rate of interest to a legal rate without making a new agreement can be particularly influential in helping a court allow a lender to receive the maximum legal rate of interest .  ( 2 ) statement of annual rate of interest  if a loan agreement provides that interest is payable at a rate or percentage per day , week , month or any period less than a year , section 4 of the interest act ( canada ) requires the agreement to also contain an express statement of the yearly rate or percentage of interest to which the other rate or percentage is equivalent , except in real estate mortgages . libor and the us base rate , for instance , are calculated on the basis of a 360-day year . under the interest act , failure to interest over 5% per annum .  ( 3 ) higher interest rate after default for loans secured by a mortgage on real property  section 8 of the interest act prohibits fines or penalties or interest rates that increase the charge on arrears of principal or interest secured by a mortgage of real property beyond the interest rate payable on principal money not in arrears . in other words , a lender can not charge a higher rate of interest on monies owing after default . prompt payment provisions in real property mortgages , which reduce the rate of interest at maturity if all payments had been timely , may also run afoul of section 8 .  ( 4 ) non-corporate borrower prepayment rights  section 10 of the interest act provides natural persons and certain other types of non-corporate borrowers with an automatic right of pre-payment in certain circumstances where principal or interest under a closed mortgage loan are payable more than five years after the date of the loan . where section 10 applies , the mortgage can be pre-paid in full any time after the five-year interest .  mortgages given by corporations and joint-stock companies are expressly excluded from this prepayment right . until recently , other entities that existed for business or commercial purposes were not necessarily captured by the exclusion . new regulations that came into force in january 2012 , however , expanded the range of entities carved out from the application of section 10 . now mortgages or hypothecs granted by partnerships , trusts settled for business or commercial purposes and unlimited liability corporations will not attract these automatic prepayment rights .  ( 5 ) failure to include interest rate may be binding on the lender  in a recent case from the qu ? bec court , the court dismissed a claim by a financial institution seeking to rectify a loan agreement that mistakenly failed to state an interest rate . the parties were told to live with the mistake and the financial institution was not permitted to unilaterally amend the loan agreement to include the 6.95% rate that had been stipulated in the loan application . the financial institution was also ordered to pay damages for having registered a and financial reputation of one of the debtors . notably , the financial institution did not request the annulment of the contract , which the court concluded would have been the only possible remedy .  as these provisions demonstrate , lenders and borrowers should remain alert to the range of rules contained in canadian legislation and case law that govern the rate of interest payable . we would be pleased to assist lenders and borrowers with these matters .  the foregoing provides only an overview . readers are cautioned against making any decisions based on this material alone . rather , a qualified lawyer should be consulted .  each year , the office of the superintendent of financial institutions holds a seminar in toronto to update both in house lawyers and outside counsel on recent activities undertaken by the legislation and approvals division .  this change will only affect pension funds governed by ontario law . the 2015 federal budget announced a review of this rule at the federal level , but it remains to be seen whether other jurisdictions will follow suit .  mondaq.com ( and as a user you are granted a non-exclusive , revocable license to access the website under its terms and conditions of use . your use of the website constitutes your agreement to the following terms and conditions of use . mondaq ltd may terminate your use of the website if you are in breach of these terms and conditions or if mondaq ltd decides to terminate your license of use for whatever reason .  use of www.mondaq.com  you may use the website but are required to register as a user if you wish to read the full text of the content and articles available ( the content ) . you may not modify , publish , transmit , transfer or sell , reproduce , create derivative works from , distribute , perform , link , display , or in any way exploit any of the content , in whole or in part , except as expressly permitted in these terms &amp; conditions or with the prior written consent of mondaq ltd . you may not use electronic or other means to extract details or information about mondaq.com ? them any services or products which compete directly or indirectly with mondaq ltd ? s services and products .  disclaimer  mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers make no representations about the suitability of the information contained in the documents and related graphics published on this server for any purpose . all such documents and related graphics are provided " as is " without warranty of any kind . mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions with regard to this information , including all implied warranties and conditions of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , title and non-infringement . in no event shall mondaq ltd and/or its respective suppliers be liable for any special , indirect or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use , data or profits , whether in an action of contract , negligence or other tortious action , arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of information available from this server .  the documents and related graphics published on this server could include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors . changes and/or its respective suppliers may make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described herein at any time .  registration  mondaq ltd requires you to register and provide information that personally identifies you , including what sort of information you are interested in , for three primary purposes :  to allow you to personalize the mondaq websites you are visiting .  to enable features such as password reminder , newsletter alerts , email a colleague , and linking from mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) to your website .  mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) do not sell or provide your details to third parties other than information providers . the reason we provide our information providers with this information is so that they can measure the response their articles are receiving and provide you with information about their products and services .  if you do not want us to provide your name and email address you may opt out by clicking here .  if you do not wish to receive any future announcements of products and services offered by  we require site users to register with mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) to view the free information on the site . we also collect information from our users at several different points on the websites : this is so that we can customise the sites according to individual usage , provide ' session-aware ' functionality , and ensure that content is acquired and developed appropriately . this gives us an overall picture of our user profiles , which in turn shows to our editorial contributors the type of person they are reaching by posting articles on mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) ? meaning more free content for registered users .  we are only able to provide the material on the mondaq ( and its affiliate sites ) site free to site visitors because we can pass on information about the pages that users are viewing and the personal information users provide to us ( e.g. email addresses ) to reputable contributing firms such as law firms who author those pages . we do not sell or rent information to anyone else other than the authors time . should you wish us not to disclose your details to any of these parties , please tick the box above or tick the box marked " opt out of registration information disclosure " on the your profile page . we and our author organisations may only contact you via email or other means if you allow us to do so . users can opt out of contact when they register on the site , or send an email to unsubscribe@mondaq.com with ? no disclosure ? in the subject heading  mondaq news alerts  in order to receive mondaq news alerts , users have to complete a separate registration form . this is a personalised service where users choose regions and topics of interest and we send it only to those users who have requested it . users can stop receiving these alerts by going to the mondaq news alerts page and deselecting all interest areas . in the same way users can amend their personal preferences to add or remove subject areas .  cookies  a cookie is a small text file written to a user ? the cookies do not contain any personal information about users . we use the cookie so users do not have to log in every time they use the service and the cookie will automatically expire if you do not visit the mondaq website ( or its affiliate sites ) for 12 months . we also use the cookie to personalise a user 's experience of the site ( for example to show information specific to a user 's region ) . as the mondaq sites are fully personalised and cookies are essential to its core technology the site will function unpredictably with browsers that do not support cookies - or where cookies are disabled ( in these circumstances we advise you to attempt to locate the information you require elsewhere on the web ) . however if you are concerned about the presence of a mondaq cookie on your machine you can also choose to expire the cookie immediately ( remove it ) by selecting the ' log off ' menu option as the last thing you do when you use the site .  some of our business partners may ) . however , we have no access to or control over these cookies and we are not aware of any at present that do so .  links  this web site contains links to other sites . please be aware that mondaq ( or its affiliate sites ) are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites . we encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of these third party sites . this privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site .  surveys &amp; contests  from time-to-time our site requests information from users via surveys or contests . participation in these surveys or contests is completely voluntary and the user therefore has a choice whether or not to disclose any information requested . information requested may include contact information ( such as name and delivery address ) , and demographic information ( such as postcode , age level ) . contact information will be used to notify the winners and award prizes . survey information will be used for purposes of monitoring  if a user elects to use our referral service for informing a friend about our site , we ask them for the friend ? s name and email address . mondaq stores this information and may contact the friend to invite them to register with mondaq , but they will not be contacted more than once . the friend may contact mondaq to request the removal of this information from our database .  security  this website takes every reasonable precaution to protect our users ? information . when users submit sensitive information via the website , your information is protected using firewalls and other security technology . if you have any questions about the security at our website , you can send an email to webmaster@mondaq.com .  correcting/updating personal information  if a user ? s personally identifiable information changes ( such as postcode ) , or if a user no longer desires our service , we will endeavour to provide a way to correct , update or remove that user ? s personal data provided to us . this can usually be done at the ? **27;92;toolong .  notification of changes  if we decide to change our terms &amp; conditions or privacy policy , we will post those changes on our site so our users are always aware of what information we collect , how we use it , and under what circumstances , if any , we disclose it . if at any point we decide to use personally identifiable information in a manner different from that stated at the time it was collected , we will notify users by way of an email . users will have a choice as to whether or not we use their information in this different manner . we will use information in accordance with the privacy policy under which the information was collected .  how to contact mondaq  if for some reason you believe mondaq ltd. has not adhered to these principles , please notify us by e-mail at problems@mondaq.com and we will use commercially reasonable efforts to determine and correct the problem promptly .