BC ski resorts hope for whiter winter amid low snowfall
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/b-c-ski-resorts-hope-for-whiter-winter-amid-low-snowfall-1.2478650

b.c. ski resorts hope for whiter winter amid low snowfall  related stories  many ski resorts on the south coast of british columbia are still praying for snow , following one of the worst starts to the season in recent years .  brent curtain of vancouver island 's mount washington alpine resort says ski runs remain closed because there 's only about 20 centimetres of snow at the mid-mountain baseline compared to the 350 centimetres it had last year .  he says the resort normally boasts upwards of 4,000 daily visitors but only a fraction of them are paying for the mountain 's tubing and sliding areas .  some of the runs at mt . seymour were still closed over the weekend . ( cbc )  officials at mt . seymour on vancouver 's north shore , where three of the main lifts are closed , say they could also use a whiter winter . spokeswoman emmalee brunt says business over the christmas holidays usually brings in 20 per cent of the mountain 's revenue , and the lack of snow has mountains say it 's still too early to talk about how the lack of snow will affect season-pass holders , and they are hoping a few storms will change business for the better .  at cypress mountain in west vancouver , the downhill runs are open , but the nordic ski area has yet to open for the season . snow guns have helped keep grouse mountain open , but the high-speed quad chair was not expected to be running on monday .  whistler well below average  whistler blackcomb is fully open , but with only 89 centimetres of snow on the ground , the resort 's snow machines have been working hard to keep the runs open over the christmas break .  so only 186 centimetres of snow has fallen at the resort in total this year , well below the 470-centimetre average for the end of december at the resort .  nearby on the nordic trails in the callaghan valley it is n't much better . biathlon b.c. coach glen ruperts says the team is training on the limited terrain that 's open at get away with just 15 to 20 centimetres of snow , but they would rather have more .  " we 're making do with what there is . i 'm definitely not skiing on my best pair of skis that 's for sure , " said rupert .  this season the biathlon team has already made three trips within the province to train in better conditions . most years they only make one .  " the athletes have to ski . that 's why we 're making the best of it . they have to ski or the season would be a write off . "  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .