Life after the party: Independent MPs free to vote as they please after ...
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/canada/life-after-the-party-independent-mps-free-to-vote-as-they-please-after-leaving-world-of-tribal-partisan-politics

Life after the party : Independent MPs free to vote as they please after leaving world of ' tribal ' partisan politics  Independent MPs say they have no regrets over their exile to the margins of the political process .  Bruce Hyer left the NDP caucus , and later his party , 21 months ago after he was " punished " for voting against the party line to scrap the long-gun registry . ( He joined the Greens about two weeks after this interview , but argues he 'll continue to operate very much as an independent . )  Brent Rathgeber quit the Tory caucus in June after colleagues gutted his private member 's bill on public servant salary disclosure , but remains a member of the Conservative Party .  You can count on your fingers the number of independent MPs who get a bill into the Senate  Maria Mourani was tossed from the Bloc Quebecois caucus in September for speaking out against the Parti Quebecois ' values charter and quit the party after her ouster .  Postmedia News sat down how their experiences have changed their views on partisan politics . Here 's what they had to say .  ( Aside : Dean Del Mastro sits as a Conservative Independent . He left caucus after he was charged under the Elections Act in October but hopes to return once his legal battles are resolved . )  On the joys and challenges of political independence :  " Liberating " is how Rathgeber describes independence . Before he could n't vote how he wanted on legislation , or " speak freely " in the House . There were " attempts " to edit his blog and his tweets and he was expected to " cheerlead and promote the government rather than question it , vet it and hold it to account . "  Mourani enjoys a more flexible schedule that gives her more time in her riding . She no longer feels " constrained " by caucus and is better able to work with the government whip , House Leader and ministers on files .  Her private member 's bill on human trafficking even received unanimous support last the number of independent MPs who get a bill into the Senate , " she said .  Though he can no longer participate in committees , Hyer enjoys getting a question a week during question period and being able to " work across party lines . " He 's also amazed at the number of times he 's introduced an idea only for it to be rejected and later scooped up by another party .  Still , all admit there are challenges . Independent MPs have the same office budgets and staff complements , but without a party to tell them how to vote , they have a lot more reading to do on subjects that do n't necessarily match their areas of expertise .  It 's a big reason Hyer decided to go Green .  On partisan politics and what needs to change :  Hyer said he always felt partisan politics was " too tribal " but " did n't realize to what degree " until he got involved .  He has a lengthy list of remedies for what he believes ails the democratic proportional representation , wants randomized seating in the Commons and for the names of political parties to be stripped from the election ballot .  Noting he has the " dubious honour " of having the only private member 's bill in Canadian history to pass the House only to be killed by the Senate , he wants the chamber abolished . A " wild new " alternative , he said , would be for party leaders to choose senators for a single term based on their proportion of the popular vote .  Both Hyer and Rathgeber also support Conservative Michael Chong 's private member 's bill to limit the power of party leaders . So , too , does Hyer 's new boss -- Green Party leader Elizabeth May .  Rathgeber maintains he 's " not anti-party " and believes they play a " critical role educating the electorate " during elections .  " Between elections , I believe that their complete and total preoccupation with partisan considerations as opposed to what I think are more critical issues like the merits or lack of merits about a damaging for good governance , " he added .  Mourani said the problem lies with personality more than procedure .  People who are " dictatorial , " do n't listen to their MPs or respect their expertise , do n't dialogue with them and surround themselves with " yes-men " are just bad leaders , she said .  On friends and foes :  Mourani , then the Bloc 's only female MP and a member of a visible minority , received widespread support across party lines after her expulsion for standing up for religious minorities . The charter seeks to bar Quebec public servants from wearing overt religious symbols to work .  None of her Bloc colleagues came to her defence , she said , adding others in the wider independence movement agreed she was treated unfairly .  Rathgeber said there was only ever " subtle animosity " over his departure among caucus colleagues , who the self-described " workaholic " seldom socialized with anyway due to his lack of interest in their favourite pastime -- hockey .  For Hyer , a Jack Layton agonizing " and there are some in caucus and in his old riding association who have n't gotten over it .  He has few kind words for then-interim leader Nycole Turmel and whip Chris Charlton whose decision to discipline him prompted his departure , but said he gets more " hugs and smiles " in his riding than " discouraging comments . "  Hyer and Rathgeber have also become friends and allies over their mutual interest in democratic reform and both agree May has been a godsend even if they do n't agree on everything politically .  " She 's been very , very helpful administratively and helping me navigate the waters of an independent , " Rathgeber said .  Hyer said he agrees with the six core principles of May 's party and was swayed to join by the fact the Greens do n't whip votes .  On their political futures :  Mourani said she will " never again vote for the Bloc or the PQ " and shortly after this interview , announced she was no longer a sovereigntist .  She knows likely run in the next election .  Rathgeber said he will defend his seat in 2015 as an independent conservative , though he expects the Harper Conservatives will " throw everything and the kitchen sink " into defeating him in Edmonton-St . Albert .  " They 'll have to make a choice , " he said . " Do they want a party loyalist . . . or do they want an independent conservative who will . . . assess each piece of legislation and will support those that are meritorious and that benefit the constituents . "  Hyer said he felt " like the prettiest girl at the dance " as " several parties " wooed him .  Still , he decided to go Green , has paid his membership fees for three years and will run under the party banner in 2015 , if he runs .