An aging population: our senior moment
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-debate/an-aging-population-our-senior-moment/article16124606/

A century ago , children outnumbered the elderly by as much as 10 to one in most European countries . Today , there are as many people over the age of 65 as there are under the age of 16 . In Britain , roughly one in six people is 65 or older , compared to one in eight Americans , and one in four Japanese .  This shift has been powered by declining birth and infant-mortality rates in the first half of the 20th century , together with rising life expectancy in recent decades . Whatever the causes , many are concerned that , in the coming decades , rapidly aging populations will increasingly strain health , welfare and social-insurance systems , putting unsustainable pressure on public budgets .  But , while such fears are not entirely unfounded , discussions about population aging tend to exaggerate the trend 's scale , speed , and impact , owing to a fundamental misperception about how populations grow older . Unlike people , populations do not follow the life cycle of birth , aging and death . , age becomes an unreliable way to measure a population 's productivity as lifespans increase .  Age has two components : the number of years a person has lived ( which is easy to measure for individuals and populations ) and the number of years a person has left to live ( which is unknown for individuals , but possible to predict for populations ) . As mortality declines , remaining life expectancy ( RLE ) increases for people of all ages . This distinction is crucial , because many behaviours and attitudes ( including those that are health-related ) may be linked more strongly to remaining life expectancy than to age .  The standard indicator of population aging is the old-age dependency ratio ( OADR ) , which divides the number of people who have reached the state pension age by the number of working-age adults . But this approach fails to distinguish between being of working age and actually working , while classifying all people above the statutory pension age as " dependants . "  In fact , social and economic shifts have broken the link number of years in education , while many older workers retire early , implying that they have sufficient personal savings . In the U.K. , the 9.5-million working-age dependants ( those who are not in paid employment ) outnumber those who are above the state pension age and do not work .  Moreover , the old-age dependency ratio disregards how , over time , rising life expectancies effectively make people of the same chronological age younger . For example , in 1950 , a 65-year-old British woman had an average life expectancy of 14 years ; today , she can expect to live another 21 years .  A better measure of population aging 's impact is the real elderly dependency ratio ( REDR ) , which divides the total number of people with a remaining life expectancy of 15 years or less by the number of people actually in employment , regardless of their age . This measure accounts for the real impact of changes in mortality , by allowing the " old age " boundary to shift as advances in health prolong people 's productive lifespans .  risen in advanced countries , the real elderly dependency ratio has declined . It has , however , stabilized and is likely to increase gradually over the next couple of decades .  Immigration has played an important role in depressing many countries ' real elderly dependency ratio by raising employment rates . Increased labour-force participation among women -- who spend a significantly higher share of their lives in paid employment than they did 50 years ago , when most women withdrew from it after marriage or childbirth -- has also helped to lower REDRs . Of course , failure to support these trends has the opposite effect . Japan -- where opposition to immigration and failure to embrace gender equality have led to a rapidly rising real elderly dependency ratio -- is a case in point .  In short , the REDR tells a very different story from the OADR , with at least three important policy implications . First , population aging is no excuse for trimming the welfare state or treating pension arrangements as unsustainable . After all , the phenomenon has been under way for more social and economic impact has been declining in recent decades .  Moreover , the REDR underscores that rising demand for health care and social services is not a function of having a larger share of people above a specific age . Factors such as progress in medical knowledge and technology and the increasing complexity of age-related comorbid conditions are far more relevant .  In fact , while age-specific disability rates seem to be falling , recent generations have a worse risk-factor profile than older ones , owing to trends such as rising obesity rates . The capacity of health-care systems to cope with increasing longevity will therefore depend on the changing relationship between morbidity and remaining life expectancy .  The third implication concerns higher education . Elderly people with university degrees ( a small minority of their generation ) enjoy a substantial longevity advantage . If the life-enhancing effect of higher education persists , population aging can be expected to accelerate further , as the younger , larger and more highly educated generations grow older .  Preparing for and coping with changing demographics requires a more nuanced , the right indicator -- the real elderly dependency ratio -- is essential .  John MacInnes is a professor of sociology and Jeroen Spijker is senior research fellow at the School of Social and Political Science , University of Edinburgh .