Another study finds GMO corn to be highly toxic
http://www.digitaljournal.com/article/348260

another study finds gmo corn to be highly toxic  a new study has been leaked which examines genetically modified corn and reveals that the crop contains a startling level of toxic chemicals and just is n't as nutritious as natural corn .  the study was reportedly run by profit pro and is called the " 2012 corn comparison report . " it was published recently on the moms across america march to label gmos website . the group states on their website that they wish to " raise awareness and support moms with solutions to eat gmo free as we demand gmo labeling locally and nationally simultaneously . " they are planning on organizing several nationwide marches this year against gmos .  the study gives the results of an education-based consulting company 's comparison of corn types and what the study shows is that genetically modified foods may be more hazardous than once thought .  not only does the study show that the crop is hazardous to health , it further shows that it is far less nutritious than traditional , organic corn america website , the report was provided by a representative for de dell seed company , an ontario-based farm that boasts it is canada 's only non-gmo corn seed company .  honeycutt says she was " floored " after reading the study and said that , " the claims that ' there is no difference between gmo corn and non gmo corn ' are false . "  according to tests run by profit pro , gmo corn contains various elements which are absent from traditional corn , including chlorides , formaldehyde and glyphosate and they are present to the tune of 60 ppm , 200pm and 13 ppm , respectively .  accordng to honeycutt , the united states environmental protection agency mandates the level of glyphosate in american drinking water must not exceed 0.7 ppm , adding that organ damage in some animals has been linked to glyphosate exposure exceeding 0.1 ppm .  " glyphosate draws out the vital nutrients of living things and gmo corn is covered with it , " adds honeycutt , further noting that the " nutritional benefits rampant in natural corn are the study , in the samples used , non-gmo corn is alleged to have 437-times the amount of calcium of genetically modified versions , and 56-times the level of magnesium and 7-times the level of manganese .  this study takes a further step to the recent study run by professor gilles-eric s ? ralini , the french scientist who ran lifetime tests on gm corn and roundup on rats , where he showed that levels of roundup ( monsanto 's herbicide of which its main chemical ingredient is glyphosate ) , currently considered " safe " , can cause mammary tumors and multiple organ damage ( kidney and liver )  these studies also come as a decision on capitol hill to approve an annual agriculture appropriations bill has been passed , despite the provision within the act which contained a rider that frees gmo corporations such as the multi-billion-dollar monsanto company from liability .  dubbed the " monsanto protection act , " this provision was written by a lawmaker who has lobbied for monsanto , and it states that biotech companies wo n't need federal approval to test are unknown .  it seems that the advertisement by monsanto for roundup , featured in the video below , may be truer than we thought :