REVIEW: Q With Jian Ghomeshi
http://leaderpost.com/entertainment/review-q-with-jian-ghomeshi

REVIEW : Q With Jian Ghomeshi  Jian Ghomeshi brought his CBC Radio One show to Regina on Thursday night .  Q With Jian Ghomeshi  Thursday  Conexus Arts Centre  Jeff DeDekker  Leader-Post  If Thursday night was any example , Jian Ghomeshi has one of the best jobs in the world .  Ghomeshi , host of the CBC Radio One show Q With Jian Ghomeshi , made an incredible contribution to Juno Week with a remarkable two-hour show at the Conexus Arts Centre . The show , which will be carried Friday across North America on CBC Radio One , Sirius XM Satellite Radio channel 159 and U.S. public radio , was a true smorgasbord of great conversation and great music . It was entertaining , it was informative , it was enlightening . It certainly was everything anyone in the sold out crowd could 've hoped for when they decided to plunk down their hard earned money on a ticket .  As Sheila Coles of CBC 's The Morning Edition put it in her introduction , " The king " And Ghomeshi was fortunate enough to bring more than enough quality artists to the show -- k.d. lang , Tom Cochrane , Dragonette , Jim Cuddy , Gary Roberts and Corb Lund each spent time conversing with the amiable host .  Ghomeshi 's conversation with lang , which came after she stunned the audience with The Valley , hit a number of topics of interest .  After touching base on lang 's induction into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame on Sunday , Ghomeshi asked about her the challenges of her life and career .  " I have never felt like I was fully part of anything , " said lang . " Whether it 's being gay , being a Buddhist , being a Canadian . It would be best to be independent of categories because thinking in those terms is deflating . "  She also admitted that there was a conscious decision about stepping away from trying to be a star -- " It takes so much energy , there 's so much pressure . You can see that Justin Bieber 's been struggling worth it . "  Lang also drew a laugh from the crowd when Ghomeshi asked her about the pressure of performing high-profile events .  " Helpless and Hallelujah are great songs . All I have to do is sing them and that 's pretty easy , " lang said as the crowd erupted into laughter .  Lang returned to the stage later in the evening to lend a helping hand when Bahamas performed Lost In The Light .  While much of the night 's conversation was light , Ghomeshi 's chat with Cochrane had some serious moments as they discussed his involvement with charitable organizations like World Vision .  Cochrane , who will be presented with the Allan Waters Humanitarian Award on Sunday , spoke of the importance of accepting the honour .  " It means I can thank some people for inspiring me , " said Cochrane . " If you get up there thinking , ' I deserve this award , ' then you probably do n't deserve the award . "  Cochrane finished his appearance with an acoustic version of a the first time I 've played the song live and I 'm scared shitless , " Cochrane said with a laugh .  Ghomeshi also ensured that Regina was represented as Sandra Butel , artistic director of the Regina Folk Festival , and Jayden Pfeifer , an actor and comedian , were given the opportunity to , as the host put it , " tell me why Regina is so fantastic . "  " People do n't live here because they do n't have anywhere better to go , " explained Butel . " They live here because it 's a community that makes stuff happen . "  The evening , which featured the largest crowd ever for a remote broadcast of Q , lacked one tiny detail -- it just was n't long enough .  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .