TV sweeps make May couch potato month
http://www.thestar.com/entertainment/television/2013/05/17/tv_sweeps_make_may_couch_potato_month.html

on the simpsons , marge mistakenly joins an ashley madison-type website that caters to married people looking for fun . on ncis , an international manhunt for the killer of eli david and jackie vance turns into a federal witch hunt . and grey sloan memorial hospital goes into crisis mode as a storm rages in grey 's anatomy .  it 's time to refill the chip bowl . if you 're wondering why you have n't had a chance to get off your couch this month , then congratulations , you 're officially in tv finale hell .  may is one of the busiest times in the tv schedule because it is the end of the traditional television season . it 's also one of the crucial " sweeps " months where programmers jockey for eyeballs to get high ratings that will help determine advertising rates .  with the stakes higher than ever , networks traditionally blow their budgets on killer finales .  the good news is that fonzie will not try to jump over a shark as in past season finales stars such as family guy creator seth macfarlane on the simpsons , or hilary duff on the season finale of two and a half men .  " it can be a stressful month , because you 're planning where to put your best programming to compete with the other networks , " says barbara williams , senior vice-president of content for shaw media , which includes global television and 19 other specialty channels . " but certainly it 's a huge month for us and there is enormous pressure . "  advertisers are also keen to place their products during season finales since audience share can typically bump from 5 to 10 per cent , says judy davey , executive vice-president of media buying company zenithoptimedia .  in the u.s. , sweep dates include november , february , may and july .  " there is a lot of competition for eyeballs , so not everything as a season finale spikes , " says davey . " if it 's truly the final season and the last new episode that we 'll be seeing , you 'll obviously , on plot , whether there is a particular cliffhanger or even how the show is marketed all comes into play . "  in canada , audiences are measured by bbm canada , which uses a diary system for smaller markets and an electronic device called a portable people meter in larger markets such as toronto and montreal .  the meter is worn by the viewer and it picks up signals from tv sets that are translated into data on what those people are watching at all times . about 4,500 households across canada are part of the sample group .  " for the smaller markets we typically send out diaries , little booklets that people can jot down what they 're watching in the fall and spring , " says tom jenks , spokesperson for bbm canada , a non-profit organization made up of advertisers and broadcasters .  williams , meanwhile , says the war for eyeballs never ends . after networks have served their best dishes in may , they 've still got to have something left over for the summer months .  " now and people want to see high quality shows , " says williams . " but that means at the end of the day it 's the viewers who win . "