Subtle horror unwinds in psychological film
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/arts-and-life/entertainment/movies/subtle-horror-unwinds-in-psychological-film-207835671.html

the speaker is jock ( played by the popular australian actor chips rafferty in his last screen role ) the police chief of the tiny aussie town of bundayabba , known to the locals as " the yabba . "  on the receiving end of jock 's affably masculine invitation is john grant ( gary bond ) , a brit schoolteacher obliged by a $1,000 bond to teach in australia 's most remote outback outposts .  grant is on his way to sydney after the end of the school year . but he effectively gets trapped in the yabba , seduced by copious beer consumption , a local coin-toss gambling mania and finally a kind of demented male camaraderie . its first iteration is in the benign beer-guzzling entreaties of the police chief himself . but grant succumbs to bonding of a darker nature when he falls in with doc tydon ( donald pleasance ) , an intellectual match for grant who has cheerfully gone to seed in this remote , hot backwater .  after listening to jock proudly talk up what a grand : " all the little devils are proud of hell . "  made in 1970 , wake in fright was directed by canadian ted kotcheff ( the apprenticeship of duddy kravitz ) with a pair of british movie stars in lead roles . it won an award at cannes and played in france for five months , but australians did n't take kindly to the film 's portrayal of aussie masculinity and the movie promptly failed in its domestic release .  indeed , it was considered a lost film until a print was found in pittsburgh and it was digitally restored in 2009 .  australians have since embraced the film ; well , as much as a film of this nature could ever be embraced . its most notorious scene is a horrifying kangaroo hunt in which the animals are cut down by drunken hunters in a gruesome slaughter all the more upsetting because kotcheff got the footage from a real hunt .  that sequence is not soon forgotten .  but this is also a film of more subtle horror , depicting one man 's psychological you can comment on most stories on winnipegfreepress.com . you can also agree or disagree with other comments . all you need to do is be a winnipeg free press print or e-edition subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback .