Canada needs a better stock exchange, says Ned Goodman
http://www.stockhouse.com/opinion/movers-shakers/2013/05/17/canada-needs-a-better-stock-exchange-says-ned-goodman

canada needs a better stock exchange , says ned goodman  what follows is an excerpt from a speech by ned goodman , president and ceo of toronto-based dundee corp . ( tsx : t.dc.a , stock forum ) . he was speaking to the association for mineral exploration b.c. in vancouver , may 10 , 2013 .  i am part of a brokerage firm that depends on the toronto stock exchange .  we are at a point now where there is an impediment to economic growth , job creation , innovation , and business formation .  and everybody has forgotten about why a stock exchange was put in place .  a stock exchange was put in place to allow junior companies , individuals to come up with new ideas , be innovative and be able to raise money .  all we do now when we do that is we raise money for the legal profession . i do n't think we should be doing that . i think we should be raising money to spend it in the ground .  part of the toronto stock exchange ( we call it the tsx venture exchange ) , most of the people in toronto caught a disease called bre-x , and they are still looking for the next bre-x .  they do n't know what to do about it , so they put in all kinds of rules .  ( investors in bre-x minerals lost about $3 billion in 1997 when its so-called busang gold find in indonesia was found to be a scam ) .  i was quoted on something called sino-forest corp . ( tsx : t.tre , stock forum ) , where the regulators took a company , totally wiped it out , shareholders got zero , billions of dollars were lost .  ( investors in sino-forest were left stranded when the ontario securities commission suspended trading in the chinese-canadian timber firm in august , 2011 . this was after a short seller alleged that the company was a " ponzi scheme , " causing the shares to collapse ) .  the company is being taken over by the debt holders because the ontario securities was part of the underwriting of sino-forest . so i had a senior person at the office of the ontario securities commission every day almost for months .  in the end , they told us that we did all our due diligence correctly , no problems . they congratulated us . we were told that they were proud of us that we had all the right stuff . it made me feel good .  except that billions of dollars of the equity was wiped out .  it was wiped out because the globe and mail ( newspaper ) came back from a visit and they said we could n't find any place where sino-forest owned the land where the supposed trees were . well of course not . in china , nobody owns the land . it is the state that owns the land . you rent the land from the state .  on that basis they put the company out of business .  the point that i made at that time , i was asked do we need more regulation ?  and i said only do we need better regulation . we need a better stock exchange and better things of that nature .