Fishing is good, business is rough
http://thechronicleherald.ca/novascotia/1130194-fishing-is-good-business-is-rough

fishing is good , business is rough  lobstermen talk about their work , their finances and public perception  jensyn doyle , robert deyoung and captain brendan doyle fish lobster off bayfield , antigonish county , on tuesday after fishermen voted in antigonish on monday night to end their protest .  bayfield -- brendan doyle has a few hundred square yards of bottom to call his own .  for nine years , every dollar he 's hauled aboard the dethadol , gaelic for " what 's goin ' on , " has gone to pay for his boat and licence .  on tuesday , the bayfield , antigonish county , fisherman was back on the water .  " as much as fishing is a passion , it 's also a business , " said doyle as he steamed toward his lobster traps at 5 a.m .  the fishing has been pretty good around most of northern nova scotia over recent years .  it 's the business that 's been rough .  after a winter of low landings around the told to expect about $5 a pound for their catch when the northumberland strait season opened . when within a week of that season opening , catches dropped to $4 a pound for market-sized lobster and $3.75 for the smaller " canners , " a movement began .  the frustration bounced from boat to boat over marine radios on may 7 .  word spread that in prince edward island , boats were tying up in protest , even blockading fish plants . the following day , fishermen descended on antigonish from across northern nova scotia to begin what would become their largest mass protest in living memory .  by may 9 , more than 1,000 boats from pugwash to cheticamp and down the eastern shore , were tied up in protest . another 1,000 in prince edward island and hundreds more in new brunswick were all tied up .  " we need to get some answers , " dan macdougall , president of the gulf nova scotia bonafide fishermen 's association , told the second gathering of fishermen at a wharf in caribou on may 9 . of running their businesses is required by fishermen who operate enterprises capitalized at between $300,000 and $500,000 , with growing ongoing expenses for bait , fuel , maintenance and crew , their ultimate and repeated demand was for greater clarity in the industry .  at each meeting , the fishermen demanded an opening of the books throughout the supply chain to show where the money goes from the wharf to the plate .  that 'll be the job of a panel promised by the fisheries ministers of the three maritime provinces last week . a promise that saw fishermen return to the water without an increase in catch prices .  so where does the money go ?  " we have eliminated the middleman and we 've still suffered significant losses for the past two years , " osborne burke , manager of victoria co-operative fisheries limited , said thursday .  " anybody who thinks there 's a fortune being made out there , i 'd like them to walk in my shoes . "  in 1957 , the fishermen of northern cape breton banded together co-operative fisheries limited expanded over the decades to become not only a buyer , but a processor and exporter , and after the decline of the groundfish fishery , turned most of its efforts to crab and lobster . run by a volunteer board of fishermen , all its books are open and its members receive annual statements .  they 're also told , a rare occurrence in the industry , what they 'll get paid for their catch before the season opens .  this year , it 's $4 dollars a pound for market-sized lobster .  " we made it very clear that we 'll try at that price for the first couple of days , and if it 's not viable , we 'll have to adjust the price down , " said burke .  " and realistically , that 's what 's going to happen . "  a thousand pounds of lobster at the wharf does n't end up a thousand pounds sold to the plate .  about half the lobster the co-op buys between dingwall and gabarus goes into the live the lobsters have to be handled repeatedly as they 're sized and sorted and sorted again at the neils harbour fish plant , and there are losses all along the way because of mortality and weak lobsters .  the other half , the small and the imperfectly formed , that goes to processing only yields from 30-35 per cent of its landed weight in salable meat .  " so if you pay $4,000 for a thousand pounds of lobster , you 're actually paying $12,000 , " said burke .  after shipping it out the plant door , processors and exporters of live lobster compete with one another in a crowded market .  " there 's no formula out there for price , " said roger cameron , owner of cameron 's seafoods in halls harbour , kings county .  " they come to me and tell me what they 're willing to pay . i have to tell them if i can meet that . "  cameron , 50 , is paying about the same price for lobster as he was paid as a aboard an 18-foot skiff before heading to school each morning in port hood , cape breton .  he buys live lobster , grades and packages them at his plant in the annapolis valley , and within 35-50 hours they 're on a plane to markets in europe and asia .  " let 's say you buy 50,000 pounds of live lobster for a set price and then someone else sells 50,000 pounds for cheaper into the market , " said cameron , " are you going to hold out and let them die ? or are you going to sell them at a loss ? "  having grown up fishing , cameron said he appreciates the financial stresses on fishermen and their growing costs , but with markets flooded , there is n't much money being made by anyone .  " it 's an industry that does n't understand itself very well , " he said .  whether seafood wholesalers in asia , europe and the united states are willing to open their books to the panel promised by the fisheries ministers remains to be seen in the industry , may be more manageable .  meanwhile , doyle is paying $25,000 a year on his licence and another $10,000 annually for his boat . then there 's $10,000 during his two-month season for bait , $4,500 for fuel and $14,000 for crew . his big diesel motor is 7,400 hours into an estimated life expectancy of 10,000 hours -- it 'll cost $45,000 to replace . then there 's licensing fees , wharf fees and a thousand other costs that pile up .  he expects to catch 15,000 to 20,000 pounds of lobster during his season .  he 's one of the lucky ones . he runs a convenience store-bakery in antigonish from which he makes his living , allowing him to survive despite the tight margins .  yet , despite all the frustrations , he claims to be optimistic over the results of the recent protest .  " we 've shown to others , and to ourselves , that we can organize and we 'll keep on them now , on top of that panel , and we wo n't let 's been so much negativity that you need to have some optimism . "