Romantic sonata from musical author
http://www.coastreporter.net/entertainment/arts-entertainment/romantic-sonata-from-musical-author-1.995848

after a brilliant academic career in music in which professor lois choksy wrote six non-fiction texts , she retired and turned her imagination to another genre , fiction . it was something she had always wanted to do so she wrote her first fictional potboiler and took it to her big publisher who had released her previous professional books .  " they were n't in the least interested in my fiction , " she recalls , still with surprise . " they said ' get an agent ' . "  an editor sent her a constructive critique of her book and choksy realized she would have to find her own voice - and learn more about writing in her chosen area , romantic suspense . at retirement age she went back to school to take university courses to learn about dialogue , plot arcs , pacing and cliff-hanger chapters , none of which was necessary to write books about music . after attending an intensive workshop in oregon she learned that her way of writing must involve the reader through stronger characters .  " , " she said .  all of choksy 's current books to date have strong women characters in them .  the music professor chose the pen name of blair mcdowell , and she set out to grab the hearts of her biggest reading market , women .  she will read from her latest book , sonata , set in vancouver and the sunshine coast , at the gibsons public art gallery this saturday , may 18 from 2 to 4 p.m .  settings are also a strong feature of the mcdowell books .  her first novel , memory of roses , ( rebel ink , 2011 ) was set in greece , a country she loves . her next , delighting in your company ( 2012 ) , springs from a remote island setting in the caribbean where choksy has owned a place for 45 years . the island evokes myths and brims with the history of slavery and this has been incorporated into a ghost story around a romantic character .  " but nothing that i see any place else is as beautiful as through the trees to the strait of georgia from her porch at her bed and breakfast business near gibsons .  the denouement of her latest , sonata , takes place in a cabin in smuggler 's cove and her cast of characters includes a half-asian heritage cellist , sayuri , who returns to her family 's vancouver mansion to find that her widowed father has taken a new and younger bride , alyssa . the three live together uncomfortably andsayuri escapes into her concert recitals and a rekindled romance with detective donovan ( and his huge dog , buttercup ) who is investigating a jewellery robbery at their home . sparks start to fly when alyssa 's handsome brother shows up unexpectedly and woos sayuri .  not surprisingly , the character of sayuri is based on several of choksy 's music students from her time as a professor of music at the university of calgary . she taught many asian students , usually string players , and saw how dedicated the students were to their art , and how , as children , they had no life but their u.s. publisher rebel ink press and on amazon . locally , they are at woods showcase and marketplace iga in gibsons . the saturday afternoon reading and refreshments at the gpag is open to the public . all are welcome .  comments  note : to post a comment you must have an account with at least one of the following services : disqus , facebook , twitter , google+ you may then login using your account credentials for that service . if you do not already have an account you may register a new profile with disqus by first clicking the " post as " button and then the link : " do n't have one ? register a new profile " .  the coast reporter welcomes your opinions and comments . we do not allow personal attacks , offensive language or unsubstantiated allegations . we reserve the right to edit comments for length , style , legality and taste and reproduce them in print , electronic or otherwise . for further information , please contact the editor or publisher , or see our terms and conditions .