Mosquitoes bugging you? University of Manitoba students created ...
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/mosquitoes-bugging-you-university-of-manitoba-students-created-an-app-for-that/article12899202/

A Culex quinquefasciatus mosquito on a human finger in this undated handout photograph from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) . Just when it seems things could n't get any worse for Greece , this exhausted and indebted country has a new threat to deal with : mosquito-borne diseases . Species of the blood-sucking insects that can carry exotic-sounding tropical infections like malaria , West Nile Virus , chikungunya and dengue fever are enjoying the extra bit of warmth climate change is bringing to parts of southern Europe . And with austerity budgets , a collapsing health system , political infighting and rising xenophobia all conspiring to allow pest and disease control measures here to slip through the net , the mosquitoes are biting back . ( HANDOUT/JAMES GATHANY/CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL/REUTERS )  A Culex quinquefasciatus mosquito on a human finger in this undated handout photograph from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) . Just when it seems things could n't get any worse for Greece , this exhausted and indebted country has a new threat to deal that can carry exotic-sounding tropical infections like malaria , West Nile Virus , chikungunya and dengue fever are enjoying the extra bit of warmth climate change is bringing to parts of southern Europe . And with austerity budgets , a collapsing health system , political infighting and rising xenophobia all conspiring to allow pest and disease control measures here to slip through the net , the mosquitoes are biting back . ( HANDOUT/JAMES GATHANY/CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL/REUTERS )  Mosquitoes bugging you ? University of Manitoba students created an app for that Add to ...  It does n't ward off the annoying , blood-thirsty critters with a wave of a smartphone , but it does allow users to warn others and provide information to figure out which infested neighbourhoods to avoid .  The app , developed by a team at the University of Manitoba , lets users rate mosquito activity in an area -- information that is then uploaded to a map which all users can see .  video  Engineering student Rory Jacob says he and his colleagues came up with the idea after using similar technology Being from Manitoba where mosquitoes are considered the province 's " unofficial bird , " Jacob says it did n't take long for them to figure out how to apply the technology to the blood-suckers .  People can check the app -- called the M Tracker -- before they leave the house so they know whether to douse themselves in bug spray , he says .  " If you 're going to an area of the city , to a park or something with your family , and you do n't know if you 're going to bring mosquito spray , you can take a look at the app , " says Jacob , who worked on the app with engineering professor Bob McLeod and fellow student Chen Liu .  The City of Winnipeg diligently tracks mosquito numbers using scientific traps , but the app could give officials another -- more personal -- perspective , Jacob suggests .  And while mosquitoes are plentiful in Western Canada , the app can be used anywhere in the world .  " It 's been downloaded in Russia , in map built-in to essentially tell you how the mosquitoes are in your area . "  The app has been downloaded about 200 times . Jacob hopes it will take off as more people hear about it .  " Realistically , the more people you get , the better the data is going to be . You 'll be able to get more consistent results out of it . "