Former dictator of Chad arrested on allegations of 40000 murders
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/former-dictator-of-chad-arrested-in-senegal-on-allegations-of-40000-murders/article12901175/

former dictator of chad arrested on allegations of 40,000 murders add to ...  it was one of the world 's most patient and tenacious campaigns for justice . after more than 22 years , it finally ended on sunday at a luxurious seaside villa in senegal , when the former dictator of chad was arrested on allegations of overseeing the murder of up to 40,000 people .  hiss ? ne habr ? , accused of systematic torture and political killings in his eight-year rule over the impoverished african nation , had been living freely in exile in a mansion in senegal since his overthrow in 1990 .  efforts by his victims to prosecute him were stalled endlessly by legal technicalities and political obstruction , and he became a symbol of how african rulers enjoyed impunity from justice .  mr. habr ? , now 70 , was arrested at his villa in dakar , the capital of senegal . reports said he was taken into custody by paramilitary police . senegalese officials confirmed he had been arrested , and photos showed him being led mr. habr ? had been protected by the government of former senegal president abdoulaye wade , who stalled every attempt at a domestic or international prosecution .  but last year mr. wade was defeated in an election and the new president , macky sall , pledged to take action against corrupt officials who had been shielded by the previous government . he agreed last year to set up a special court in the senegal justice system to prosecute mr. habr ? , and the court was established in february . the trial of mr. habr ? is expected to begin late next year or in early 2015 .  " after 22 years , habr ? ' s victims can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel , " said reed brody , a lawyer at human rights watch who has been helping former political prisoners and other victims since 1999 .  twelve years ago , mr. brody stumbled on a vast pile of documents at the abandoned headquarters of mr. habr ? ' s dreaded political police . the documents listed 12,321 victims of abuse jail .  a commission of inquiry in chad has estimated that mr. habr ? ' s government was responsible for about 40,000 politically motivated murders and about 200,000 cases of torture .  despite the atrocities , mr. habr ? was supported by the united states and france throughout his rule . washington had provided covert cia paramilitary support to help him take power in a coup in 1982 , and it continued to give him tens of millions of dollars in military aid during his rule .  after he fled to senegal , he used millions of dollars allegedly stolen from chad to build a network of supporters in senegal , allowing him to evade justice , mr. brody said .  former political prisoners from chad have been pursuing justice against mr. habr ? . " we are finally going to be able to confront our tormentor and regain our dignity as human beings , " said a statement on sunday by cl ? ment abaifouta , president of the association of victims of the crimes of hiss ? ne habr ? ' s regime .  ' s rule , has described how he was forced to bury hundreds of other prisoners in mass graves .