How to take on the CRA without fear of reprisal
http://www.thestar.com/business/personal_finance/2013/06/30/how_to_take_on_the_cra_without_fear_of_reprisal.html

the canada revenue agency is supposed to explain the reasons behind its decisions , but when it fails to do so , you can complain without fear of reprisal  lawyer marc weisman was working with a company that had fallen behind on its taxes . he worked out a deal with the canada revenue agency to pay the arrears over an extended period .  " i was preparing the postdated cheques when the cra called a day later , saying it could n't agree to the deal . the client would have only half the time we agreed on , " he recalls .  " when i asked why we could n't keep the longer payment period , i was told , ' it 's our policy . ' i asked to be sent the policy . the supervisor said there was no policy available . "  he said he would complain on his client 's behalf and got a shocking reply .  " a cra employee told me , ' if you make a complaint , i 'm going to enforce , ' " says weisman , who works in the tax law group at torkin manes llp in toronto ,  in another case about interpreting a clause in the income tax act , he wrote to the cra , citing legal arguments and precedents .  " the response was , ' we disagree . ' i asked for more information , so i could explain to the client what the cra 's position was . i got the same response . "  weisman met with me and taxpayers ' ombudsman paul dub ? last week to talk about the need to strengthen the taxpayer bill of rights .  earlier that day , national revenue minister gail shea had announced measures to ensure that taxpayers could complain and request a review without fear of cra reprisal .  " people should feel free to speak up . we wo n't tolerate any abuse of authority by employees , " she told reporters at a cra office in scarborough .  while there was no direct evidence of misconduct , shea said she takes such allegations seriously . the , to employees found to be threatening taxpayers .  dub ? , a lawyer named as the first taxpayers ' ombudsman in 2008 , called it " a significant step forward " for those who had reservations about complaining about poor service .  in five years on the job , he 's talked to a wide cross-section of taxpayers and to recipients of government benefits tied into their tax returns .  he 's heard many people express concern about consequences arising from a complaint to the cra , saying they were reluctant to exercise their rights .  that 's why he asked for a 16th right to be added to the taxpayer bill of rights , hoping to increase confidence that the system would be administered fairly .  " not only has the minister heard and accepted my recommendation , " he told the news conference , " but the cra is committed to implementing it . "  complaints about employee misconduct would go to a person 's supervisor , dub ? told me . this was unacceptable , given a common perception that bosses , complaints about misconduct will be investigated by a separate office within the cra , similar to the internal affairs department of the police .  the taxpayer bill of rights has no legal force and does not cover tax policy . it talks about rights to privacy and confidentiality , timely information and relief from penalties and interest because of extraordinary circumstances .  under the 11th right , the cra says it will be accountable for what it does : " when we make a decision about your tax or benefit affairs , we will explain that decision and tell you about your rights and obligations . "  there 's a toll-free number to call the office of the taxpayers ' ombudsman , 1-866-586-3839 . those outside canada and the united states can call 613-946-2310 . " please note that we accept collect calls , " says the website.