Provincial barriers hamper the flow of domestic wine
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/provinces-keep-cork-on-flow-of-wine-despite-bill-c-311/article12900515/

it is the law that was supposed to free the grapes , ending a prohibition-era federal ban on individual purchases of wine across provincial borders .  it has n't quite worked out that way .  a year after the passage of bill c-311 , the vast majority of canadians still ca n't buy wine directly from an out-of-province winery , unless they haul it back themselves .  that 's because just two provinces -- british columbia and manitoba -- have so far authorized interprovincial internet and phone sales to individuals since the law was passed .  most notably , ontario , alberta and quebec continue to jealously guard the revenues that flow through their own liquor distribution systems -- the latest example of internal trade barriers that persist in spite of concerted efforts to remove them .  " it just seems so ludicrous to me that we make a homegrown product . it 's local . it 's canadian . it supports farming . it 's small business , " lamented sandra oldfield , chief executive and wine maker at tinhorn creek kinds of things we should be supporting in canada . "  the small winery , located at the southern end of the okanagan valley near osoyoos , b.c. , still ca n't sell its wine online or by phone to canadians who want its product , except in manitoba and b.c.  " i do n't think the intent or the spirit of c-311 has been followed by the provinces , so that 's frustrating for me , " ms. oldfield said .  other wineries are choosing to turn a blind eye to lingering provincial restrictions , taking their cue instead from the federal government .  " i sell directly to consumers in ontario right now , and i 'm not apologizing for it , " said john skinner , proprietor of painted rock estate winery of penticton , b.c.  mr. skinner said his growing direct sales in ontario represent a tiny slice of the massive wine market , but are nonetheless crucial to making his small business " viable . "  speaking at an event at another b.c. winery last week , federal industry minister by ontario , alberta and other provinces .  " the elephants in the room are ontario and alberta , " agreed beth mcmahon , vice-president of government and public affairs for the canadian vintners association , the lobby group for canadian wineries .  " they see it as a threat to their liquor retail systems . they do n't want to see people go online or join a wine club and get wine shipped to them , and step around their own marketing systems . "  industry sources said the provinces also worry that allowing internet sales could open a back door for the sale of foreign wines directly to consumers .  but the amendment did n't touch the provinces ' right to to regulate the possession , movement and sale of wine . the canada revenue agency points out on its website that " supporting provincial legislative or regulatory changes are also required to permit individuals to move wine interprovincially or to place orders with wineries by telephone or over the internet . "  the liquor control board of ontario , which has a monopoly direct is unnecessary because consumers can buy " any wine " not sold in its stores through the lcbo 's private ordering program .  but wineries say that 's not viable because of steep markups charged by the lcbo . mr. skinner of painted rock said he would have to sell his wine for nearly $100 a bottle , compared to his normal $55 list price .  so while the lcbo may say any canadian wine is available , the reality is that most small wineries ca n't make money and so do n't sell that way , mr. skinner said .  another anomaly is that ontario allows its own residents to buy directly from ontario wineries , but yet balks at interprovincial sales .  " it really is absurd , " said ms. mcmahon of the canadian vintners association .  the provinces ' fear of internet sales is misguided , she added . the u.s. experience , where 40 states now permit it , has shown that it expands the overall market , but grabs just 1 per cent of total sales .  ms. canadian wine culture , " not doing an end run around provincial liquor boards .  " with wine , it 's all about the connections you make with people , " she said . " it 's really hard to do if you ca n't ship to them . "  restrictions  all rights reserved . republication or redistribution of thomson reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in thomson reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' thomson reuters ' and the thomson reuters logo are trademarks of thomson reuters and its affiliated companies .