Couple's 'love nest on the Bow' one of first Calgary houses to be ...
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/couples-love-nest-on-the-bow-one-of-first-calgary-houses-to-be-demolished/article12901361/

couple 's ' love nest on the bow ' one of first calgary houses to be demolished add to ...  from the front of the house , it still looks like the charming post-war abode it once was . the gravel driveway is neat , the paint is fresh , and only the yellow tape blocking access to the yard gives away the fact that this house has more serious damage than its neighbours .  it takes a walk to the side yard to see the precarious six-metre hole below this bowness neighbourhood house .  video  video  when bow river flood waters rushed in on the night of june 20 , part of the old brick foundation of the house washed away and water flowed directly into the basement .  now , what used to be a downstairs studio space and bathroom looks like a muddy cave , filed with an assortment of tossed household items including a wrapping-paper roll , a binder and a bookshelf .  eleven days after floods hit , calgary continues a cleanup and rebuilding effort collectively will cost billions .  amid the state of emergency , city safety officers have been scouring the worst-hit neighbourhoods around the clock to pinpoint dangerous homes like this -- where the structure is fragile , and the inhabitants will never be allowed to return .  " the house is coming down , " said scott miller , a city safety codes officer who has been working every day to assess damage in homes since the floods hit .  mr. miller was the one to tell geoff wilcox and his wife sharon raycroft that their white 1947 house nestled on the banks of the bow river -- which more resembles an ontario lakefront cottage than a city home -- will be one of the first of many calgary buildings that city safety inspectors order demolished as a result of the floods .  " i 've lived in calgary all my life and this is all so strange , " mr. miller said .  the number of homes that will be written off is still unknown . but calgary 's emergency management agency says as many as significant period of time , and the city believes at least 2,400 houses are damaged .  " sharon had it fixed up like a little jewel box , " mr. wilcox , 55 , a geologist , said of his house . " it was our love nest on the bow . "  while some of the homes around them have been deemed structurally sound , the house they 've lived in for the past 21 years will be torn down within the week . the water reached as high as 30 centimetres on the 800-square-foot main floor , where the floor is now so warped the front door wo n't open .  the couple managed to salvage the pale apricot dress ms. raycroft 's mother wore on her wedding day in the 1920s , and her parents ' old oak piano , but lost their photo albums .  now they are deciding whether to rebuild , and where to land .  " calgary is a beautiful city , and the people are great , " mr. wilcox said . " but it 's an expensive time . already it 's hard to get drywall in this city . "  many calgarians are being forced to make the same kind of big choices .  just across the bow river from mr. wilcox and ms. raycroft 's property , the land behind a church and several homes had sunk or eroded away to the point where one house no longer has a yard , just a deck perched above the embankment .  the calgary real estate board said house listings will fall and house sales in flood-affected neigbourhoods will face price discounts in the short term .  but over all , the board 's president becky walters said the city 's resale market is strong enough to weather the " terrible event . "  other alberta communities were hard hit as well , most notably high river , the 13,000-person town south of calgary which saw the worst of alberta 's flood damage .  while the alberta government has pledged as much as $10,000 per household in immediate help for homeowners affected by the flood , a broader , more expensive , for the damages or the loss of an entire house -- especially one in many of the wealthy calgary neighbourhoods such as roxboro , rideau park and elbow park that were some of the most badly flooded neighbourhoods -- will be a difficult question .  even mayor naheed nenshi has noted the province faces a quandary : how to structure an aid program that could end up helping the richest people in the city in the wake of the disaster .  " some of the homes in the city are very expensive homes , but not all of them , " mr. nenshi said last week .  " there 's a wide variety of people who have been impacted at every part of the socio-economic scale . and this will be interesting for the province , frankly -- if i can be a pundit for just a second -- as they 're developing their disaster relief plans , they 're going to have to think hard about that question . "