Narcotics, firearms seized in Kirkland Lake bust
http://www.sootoday.com/content/news/details.asp?c=59185

The warrants were executed at residences on Porteous Avenue , Hudson 's Bay Road and on Rosegrove Road in the Kirkland Lake area and resulted in the seizure of over $24,000 in illicit narcotics and four firearms .  These police actions form part of a larger parallel international investigation centering on various forms of drug trafficking including , but not limited to , online distribution of drugs and synthetic forms of contraband substances .  The investigation is still underway and involves a number of police forces and drug enforcement agencies , some located beyond Canadian borders .  The exhibits seized include large quantities of marijuana , cannabis resin ( hash oil ) , morphine , other synthetic drugs , various drug paraphernalia and four firearms .  The controlled substances seized have a street value of $24,085 .  Thus far , one person has been charged with various a drug related charges .  Francine Louie , 54 of Otto Twp , Kirkland Lake , is charged with :  Three counts of possession for the purpose of trafficking contrary to the Controlled a controlled drug or substance contrary to the Controlled Drug and Substances Act  One count of production of a controlled drug or substance contrary to the Controlled Drug and Substances Act  She has been released from OPP custody but must appear in Provincial Court in Kirkland Lake on August 22 to answer to the charges laid against her .  One other male accomplice is in custody in the Barbados on a drug related arrest completed by another drug enforcement agency linked to this investigation in a parallel fashion .  Updated information  Members of the OPP Organized Crime Enforcement Bureau -- Drug Enforcement Unit have arrested and charged a local man with several drug charges in relation to this investigation .  The arrest occurred on July 9 , 2013 at the Kirkland Lake OPP Detachment .  Kevin Louie , age 37 of Otto Township is charged with :  Four counts of possession of a controlled drug or substance for the purpose of trafficking contrary to the Controlled Drug and Substances Act .  Possession of a controlled drug or substance contrary to the Controlled drug and substance contrary to the Controlled Drug and Substances Act .