THEATRE COMPANY: This ain't no piece of cake
http://www.cornwallseawaynews.com/Arts/2013-07-10/article-3309006/THEATRE-COMPANY%3A-This-ain%26rsquot-no-piece-of-cake/1

theatre company : this ai n't no piece of cake  pictured ( l-r ) from the play are emily brown , as tiffany secord&amp;nbsp ; and trisha de coeur , as vivian leigh cleary .  cornwall , ontario - an unlikely group of contestants in a canada day cake baking contest gets its just desserts in the upcoming seaway valley theatre company production of the deliciously decadent comedy , cake walk , by colleen curran .  it 's a very funny story of all these different women with different personalities and different agendas , all vying for the top prize of a trip to france , explained director lacie petrynka . there 's even a little romantic twist in the mix .  as far as what the audience can expect , petrynka said that although it 's not a farce per se , there is some slapstick and plenty one-liners . " the characters themselves and their delivery are funny . it 's very good writing . " as far as the plot , the director could n't , and would n't , in a small town in ontario , with period music , costumes and attitude , another great part of the fun of the show is all these beautiful cakes that the audience gets to see , she adds , including an elaborate wedding cake .  the seven person cast includes a lot of new faces to the company . " it 's a nice mix between veteran actor and new actors , and they all meshed so well together . it 's so nice to have new talent come out . "  a frequent performer with the company , this is petrynka 's second foray in the director 's chair -- the last being steel magnolias a couple of years ago . she says that she loves the job and feels her acting experience has helped her out . " you get to learn what to watch for when directing . it 's definitely a challenging job , but i appreciate a challenge . "  cake walk runs july 18 , 19 , 20 , 25 , 26 , 27 ( evening performances beginning at 7:30 ) with 21 , a dream builder studio , 2107 second street . tickets are $20 and can be purchased in advance at the cornwall square administration office on the second floor . for further information visit www.svtc.ca