BC student blinded in Bangladesh attack continues her recovery
http://www.thestar.com/news/canada/2013/07/10/bc_student_blinded_in_bangladesh_attack_continues_her_recovery.html

inside the star  b.c. student blinded in bangladesh attack continues her recovery  university of british columbia student who was blinded in a vicious domestic assault during a trip home to bangladesh has made a remarkable recovery , finishing her master 's degree and preparing to enter law school this fall .  university of british columbia student rumana monzur , who was beaten and blinded by her husband during a 2011 attack in bangladesh , smiles during an interview at ubc , where she will begin law school in september .  rumana monzur made headlines after she was viciously attacked and blinded by her husband during a trip home to bangladesh in 2011 . but monzur , who is now preparing for law school , says she does n't want to be seen as a victim .  vancouver -- rumana monzur can picture a towering mountain or the blue sky on a sunny day . she remembers what the ocean looks like and can still conjure an image of water stretching out to the horizon .  but she has n't seen her trip home to visit her family in bangladesh , she was the victim of a vicious domestic assault that left her blind and her husband charged with attempted murder .  " each moment , i miss seeing her ( my daughter ) -- and not only her , i miss seeing people , " monzur , 35 , said wednesday .  monzur has spent the past two years on a remarkable recovery that saw her finish a master 's degree at the university of british columbia , where she now lives with her six-year-old daughter and her parents . she is now preparing to attend law school .  monzur was attacked in june 2011 during a trip home to dhaka , bangladesh . a year earlier , she left her daughter , her husband and her parents behind in dhaka to study political science in vancouver .  the attack was widely reported in local media in bangladesh , and the details of what happened , including photos of her badly injured face taken in her hospital room , quickly filtered back to her friends and colleagues in nearly $100,000 to cover monzur 's medical and living costs once she returned to b.c. , and the case fuelled a debate about violence against women in her native bangladesh .  two years later , monzur has learned to read braille and uses adaptive technology to read and write . she uses a cane to navigate when she walks , and she no longer covers her eyes with shaded glasses . the scars on her face have faded .  she successfully presented her master 's thesis , which examined the impact of climate change and rising ocean levels in bangladesh , this past spring , and she was recently accepted to a number of law schools . she decided to stay at ubc and will enter the school 's law program this fall .  monzur said she tries not to think about the attack that robbed her of her vision , which she refers to only as " the incident . "  dwelling on what happened only leads to questions without any answers .  " if i think about it , it just leads me nowhere role in that conversation , and she hopes other women and girls -- including her own daughter -- can learn from the horrors she experienced at the hands of her spouse .  " first of all , i do n't want people to see me as a victim -- i want people to see me as a survivor , " said monzur , who added that violence against women must be brought out into the open .  monzur 's former husband , hasan sayeed sumon , was arrested and charged with attempted murder soon after the attack , but he died under mysterious circumstances in december 2011.