Big Brother 15 Live Feeds: Week 8 Saturday Highlights
http://bigbrothernetwork.com/big-brother-15-live-feeds-week-8-saturday-highlights/

big brother 15 live feeds : week 8 saturday highlights  saturday brought a lot of anxiety for the hgs as they were left waiting until the end of the day for their chance to compete and secure their target 's fate with the power of veto . now that we know where the game is heading this week it 's up to the hgs to keep their plan on track as another twist gets ready for thursday .  11:15 am bbt -- andy is frustrated that he 'll have to play in the comp and risk winning which will risk exposing his betrayal of helen .  11:45 am bbt -- elissa tells amanda she knows aaryn told helen that she ( helen ) was safe . amanda suggests helen should use the veto on elissa then if she wins it . amanda keeps working elissa . she 's preparing for elissa staying and needing an ally next week .  1:00 pm bbt -- spencer and aaryn discuss the plan to get helen out this week and why she needs to go . spencer  1:45 pm bbt -- aaryn finds clowny 's second suicide . this time he 's overdosed on some of her pills .  3:10 pm bbt -- helen and elissa comparing notes on what aaryn told them . both say they were promised they were just pawns this week . the walls are closing in .  4:00 pm bbt -- helen and mccrae holding a little elissa-bashing session . helen playing to mcc 's love of the game by saying elissa is n't a real fan like she is . helen also working mcc on turning on amanda . she says she 'd vote for amanda over him in f2 if she got there without winning anything .  4:55 pm bbt -- bb makes a strange announcement that the hgs should enjoy themselves and that these are the good old days .  5:30 pm bbt -- helen does n't want anyone to ruin the surprise and reveal things when she gets out . she wants to go over to andy 's house and watch the season together ( they both live in chicago ) .  8:55 jokes that elissa " enzo 'd " him and knocked his head during the comp .  9:15 pm bbt -- aaryn warns spencer he 'll be the renom , but that he 's completely safe . spencer starts saying nasty things that he 'll use to rattle elissa by intimidating her with threats to her children .  11:05 pm bbt -- mccrae , andy , and spencer talking " boot list , " the order they want the others to go in . elissa and gm are shared targets .  12:35 am bbt -- mccrae and aaryn talking about viewer opinion . aaryn is n't concerned at all what america thinks . she later again uses the argument that she 's mistreated because she has blonde hair and blue eyes .  2:45 am bbt -- spencer is upset because he was kicked out of dr so elissa could come in for a medical emergency .  3:00 am bbt -- hgs dissecting elissa 's personal life . they do n't like how she 's married to an older man or how she wants to raise her child messing with the votes to make it 3-2 instead of 4-1 .  4:50 am bbt -- mccrae tells amanda that he 's afraid to let aaryn get to f4 . he thinks she 's better at comps than andy and will be harder to get out later .  5:05 am bbt -- mccrae tells spencer that they 'll take him to f4 if he does n't put them ( him &amp; amanda ) up on the block .  elissa is officially safe , but she really was this whole time anyway . now helen will have to figure out she 's the real target and then secure three votes to stay . i 'm not so sure she can pull that off .  you can watch all of these big brother 15 events using the archives flashback , the dvr-like feature of this year 's live feeds which means it 's always live , even when you missed it ! sign-up now to get the free trial to watch it all live &amp; uncensored .