Canadian Forces test 'Loki,' a stealth snowmobile for covert Arctic ops
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/canadian-forces-test-loki-a-stealth-snowmobile-for-covert-arctic-ops/article13832272/

video  the department of national defence even has a nickname for its cutting-edge , covert tool : " loki , " after the " mythological norse shape-shifting god . "  word of the federal hunt for a stealth snowmobile first surfaced two years ago when national defence 's research and development agency posted a public tender .  that 2011 tendering document , however , offered few details on the future of these missions , except for the top priority : silence .  the project kicked off at a time when the conservative government was laying out promises to boost canada 's military muscle in the far north , in a once-vaunted package of canadian forces upgrades the feds have largely failed to implement .  prime minister stephen harper is scheduled to arrive in the arctic on sunday for a six-day tour of the region , where his government 's main focus has gradually moved from improving the country 's northern military capabilities to promoting economic development .  the stealth-snowmobiles project has withstood that political shift .  national defence has made money on arctic mobility for eight years , but its research branch says the evaluation of the silent snowmobile , though still in its early stages , will continue .  the canadian press obtained a report that offers a behind-the-scenes peek at how soldiers ran the prototype through " informal " tests in february across varying snow conditions on canadian forces base petawawa .  " these experiments compared loki against commercially available snowmobiles already in use , testing a wide variety of the snowmobiles ' characteristics , including speed , towing capacity , endurance , mobility , usability , and of course , noise emissions , " says the heavily redacted report , acquired under the access to information act .  in one test , military personnel used sound-meter readings to compare the prototype 's noise performance against two gas-powered snowmobiles .  another trial saw the machine driven at a steady speed on a mix of flat terrain and hilly snow-covered roads until batteries died .  soldiers wielding a radar gun also tested the stealth snowmobile 's acceleration as it raced 100 metres down a flat at least nearly as capable and reliable as a standard internal combustion snowmobile , while providing a significant noise reduction , " the report said .  " for military purposes , it is not enough for a snowmobile to operate quietly . "  the report also found potential gaps in the military 's assessments .  " one of the difficulties encountered in evaluating loki is the lack of a standard set of cf snowmobile requirements , " the document said .  large sections of the may report , such as test results and comments , were blacked out .  the document justified its omissions under different provisions of the access to information act , including one that says information is withheld because releasing it could be injurious to the defence of canada or the detection , prevention or suppression of subversive or hostile activities .  a government spokesman declined to make the report 's author available for comment , nor did he answer questions on why canada 's military wants the unconventional snow machine .  " in general , anything in the military that paine , a spokesman for defence research and development canada , said .  " whether it flies or goes on the sea or anywhere else , if it 's quieter it 's advantageous to any military . "  later , in an email , paine said the testing and evaluations are ongoing .  he also said the canadian forces are looking at different small vehicles that " can be modified to traverse all types of difficult terrain , under various conditions . this includes , but is not limited to , vehicles such as snowmobiles . "  in the original federal tender , ottawa said it was seeking a snow machine that would run by gas-powered engine , but would have the capability to easily switch to a " silent mode " electric motor .  " the noise level of an internal combustion engine can not be reduced to an acceptable level for missions where covertness may be required , especially given the increased propagation of sound in cold , dry , arctic air , " read the tendering document , which also indicated bids could 's research agency was " pursuing the development of a ' silent ' snowmobile for winter operations in canada , specifically in the arctic . "  the canadian press obtained the contract , which listed the revised price tag at nearly $620,000 .  the winning bid came from crosschasm technologies , which is based in waterloo , ont. , and also has an office in montreal .  simon ouellette , the firm 's director of project development , refused to discuss the stealth snowmobile due to a confidentiality agreement with national defence .  one arctic policy expert questioned whether the cost of developing such a vehicle is money well-spent , particularly since he does n't believe there are any significant security threats in the far north .  " i do n't see a whole lot of evidence that criminals and terrorists are scooting around canada 's north on snowmobiles and that we have to sneak up on them , " said michael byers , a former federal ndp candidate who teaches international law at the university of british columbia .  byers said he 's not 's actual needs . perhaps , he added , they have an obsession with high technology .