Historic shrine prepares for closing ceremonies
http://www.paherald.sk.ca/News/Local/2013-08-18/article-3355712/Historic-shrine-prepares-for-closing-ceremonies/1

the our lady of lourdes shrine , located 55 km southwest of prince albert , has been a pilgrimage site for roman catholics for 134 years , drawing visitors every summer starting on the may long weekend and ending sept. 8 , when the nativity of mary is celebrated .  the shrine , which began its history as a m ? t is settlement and catholic mission , has a rich history that is interwoven with the north west rebellion . duck lake , where the eponymous battle took place , is just to the southwest .  " it goes back years , " said gerry ostiguy , the tour guide .  " a lot of elderly people come who remember coming here in a horse and buggy . "  the amount of people that come varies year to year , but on a good day six or seven thousand people will walk through the grounds , ostiguy said .  many bring tents or campers to stay overnight .  the shrine receives visitors from all over the world and from every how they find us in the middle of the bush in saskatchewan . "  " i 've had people from austria , germany , poland , france ( and ) all over the states .  " just the other day i two gentlemen from mexico . "  ostiguy seemed surprised that so many people come to visit .  " it 's a very rustic shrine , " she said . " we 've got animals , squirrels and bears -- you name it .  " but somehow , people like coming here . it 's very peaceful and quiet . "  around the grotto , where rows of pews looked on to a display of mary , birdcalls echoed through the woods .  " it 's a peaceful place to sit and say the rosary at night , " ostiguy said .  a grassy trail leads through the forest nearby , where the stations of the cross appear amidst the poplar trees .  " we tell people to make noise when they walk through ( because of the bears ) , " see at the shrine is a statue that was erected in 1885 by a man named charles nolin after his wife recovered from a serious illness . according to the plaque beside the statue , mrs. nolin was cured by water that brother piquet , one of the shrine 's founders , had brought from lourdes , france .  at the top of a hill a graveyard overlooks the country where riel led his rebellion . a m ? t is flag flies over the gravestones . three graves without names bear the inscription , ' died 1885 riel rebellion . '  the last big day of the summer will be september 8 , which marks the closing of the shrine for winter . visitors are asked to bring a long-stemmed rose .