Condo malls rethink the traditional shopping mall formula
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/industry-news/property-report/condo-malls-rethink-the-traditional-shopping-mall-formula/article14601290/

Westwood Square is one of a handful of Canadian projects where owner-developers are rethinking the traditional shopping mall formula . ( Fieldgate and Plazacorp )  The developers of Westwood Square are transforming a vacant Zellers store in a mall in Mississauga , a western suburb of Toronto . The redeveloped space is being marketed as a South Asian mall . ( Fieldgate and Plazacorp )  The second-floor food court is surrounded by food outlets and retail shops . Unit sizes in the mall range from 55 to 550 square feet . ( Fieldgate and Plazacorp )  Aberdeen Square is a 160,000-square-foot retail and office space addition to the Aberdeen Centre in Richmond , B.C. ( Aberdeen Square )  Investors from mainland China snapped up 95 per cent of the retail condo units that were offered for sale , with many buyers taking more than one unit . Investors like the property 's connection to Metro Vancouver 's Canada Line rapid transit system . ( Aberdeen Square )  Aberdeen Square was completed this past summer and features more than 300 units averaging 400 proposed Remington Centre , in Markham , Ont. , north of Toronto , will offer a mix of Asian-themed retail with mid- to higher-end mainstream retailers . ( Remington Group )  The 800,000-square-foot mall will have a centralized performance area that will accommodate more than 1,000 guests for cultural and community events . ( Remington Group )  Remington Group says it has sold about 60 per cent of the retail condo units , however the mall is years away from completion . Demolition of the building that currently occupies the site likely wo n't start until the end of 2014 . ( Remington Group )  Restrictions  All rights reserved . Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters . Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' Thomson Reuters ' and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies .