Mirabela Nickel Limited - Confirmation of Toronto Stock Exchange ...
http://www.newswire.ca/news-releases/mirabela-nickel-limited---confirmation-of-toronto-stock-exchange-de-listing-date-513028201.html

search  perth , australia , sept. 30 , 2013 /cnw/ - mirabela nickel limited ( mirabela or the company ) ( asx : mbn , tsx : mnb ) advises that the toronto stock exchange ( tsx ) has accepted the application of mirabela for the voluntary de-listing of its ordinary shares ( shares ) from trading on the tsx .  as a result , the shares will be de-listed and the tsx has confirmed that , as from close of trading on friday , october 4 , 2013 , the shares will no longer be traded on the tsx .  information for canadian shareholders  in order to continue to trade in the shares , canadian shareholders must transfer their share holdings from the canadian register to the australian register maintained by advanced share registry services limited ( advanced share registry ) to enable trading on the australian securities exchange ( asx ) .  if you hold a mirabela physical share certificate , you are a directly registered shareholder . shareholders directly registered on the canadian register , other than clearing and and return a " removal request - canada to australia " form along with their share certificate to the company 's canadian transfer agent , tmx equity transfer services ( equity ) . equity will process the cross border transfer with advanced share registry . this form will be available on mirabela 's website .  most shareholders on the canadian register will not be directly registered ( and will not have a physical certificate ) , but instead will hold their shares through a participating broker or intermediary in cds , and the above noted process is not applicable for them . if you hold your shares through a canadian online brokerage account , securities dealer or bank-owned broker , you most likely hold your shares indirectly through cds . for these shareholders , cds will be issuing a bulletin to its participating brokers and intermediaries providing information as to how to move shares to the australian register from cds . accordingly , shareholders should contact their broker or intermediary directly for more information .  shareholders holding shares through cds and who do not ultimately move their shares to course . if a shareholder that formerly held through cds receives a physical certificate , it will then be the shareholder 's responsibility to move their shares to the australian register .  shareholders may also continue to trade their shares on the tsx until the close of trading on the tsx on friday , october 4 , 2013 . once the shares are transferred to advanced share registry , the shares may be traded on the asx .  questions regarding the transfer process outlined above should be directed to the relevant broker or intermediary for shares held through a cds participating broker or intermediary , or to equity at :  mirabela intends to terminate its canadian register by december 31 , 2013 . shareholders who do not transfer their shares by such date will be contacted by mirabela in due course to make arrangements for the transfer .