BevMo! Announces Three Executive Hires
http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/bevmo-announces-three-executive-hires-1836101.htm

where would you like to sign in ?  bevmo ! announces three executive hires  concord , ca-- ( marketwired - sep 30 , 2013 ) - bevmo ! , the ultimate neighborhood specialty beverage retailer , today announced three significant additions to the company 's executive team . bob paulinski has been appointed to the role of senior vice president of wine , tom smallhorn has been named vice president of exclusive product and brand development , and mike allen will join bevmo ! as regional vice president of stores for northern california , arizona , and washington .  " we are very excited to be adding such experienced industry leaders to our team as part of our ongoing growth strategy , " said bevmo ! ceo alan johnson . " bob , tom and mike all bring a strong mix of experience , leadership and success that reinforces bevmo ! ' s commitment to having the most knowledgeable and passionate experts . "  bob paulinski brings more than thirty years of industry experience to his new role as bevmo ! ' s diverse , with positions ranging from a start up independent retailer , to leadership roles in the club and grocery channels . most recently , he transformed the beverage alcohol business for winn-dixie stores ( bi-lo holdings ) as the category director for wine/spirits/beer .  tom smallhorn joins bevmo ! as vice president of exclusive product and brand development , where he will spearhead bevmo ! ' s exclusive brands across wine , beer , spirits and more . smallhorn brings over fifteen years experience in the beverage industry , much of that in wine . in his previous position as the vice president of marketing at treasury wine estates , smallhorn developed and managed the innovation portfolio , including the launch of breakthrough brands such as skinny vine , los hermanos and colby red . prior to joining treasury wine estates , smallhorn was the senior vice president of marketing at popchips , responsible for all aspects of marketing and introduced four new flavors of popchips .  bevmo ! is also happy to welcome mike allen as regional vice president of stores for northern california , arizona , store operations experience in the beverage industry with companies including safeway and cost plus world market , where he spent the majority of his career . allen comes to bevmo ! most recently from grocery outlet stores where he was director of sales and merchandising . in his new role , allen will lead the team in achieving operational excellence and outstanding customer experience .  bevmo ! is the leading alcoholic beverage-lifestyle specialty retailer in the western united states and among the largest in the country . with 145 stores across california , arizona and washington , bevmo ! provides a uniquely friendly and welcoming environment for competitively priced alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages and " goes with " products such as specialty foods and snacks , cigars , glassware and related bar and wine accessories .