Up in the air, North of 60
http://news.nationalpost.com/full-comment/james-fergusson-up-in-the-air-north-of-60

james fergusson : up in the air , north of 60  up in the air , north of 60  what follows is the third of five excerpts from a newly released e-book , the canadian forces in 2025 : problems and prospects . the publication was commissioned by the strategic studies working group -- a partnership between the canadian international council and the canadian defence and foreign affairs institute . in today 's installment , james fergusson looks at our air-force presence in the arctic .  the federal government has tasked the canadian forces with monitoring , controlling and enforcing canadian laws and regulations over its arctic territory and adjacent waters . in so doing , the government , through its 2008 canada first defence strategy and national shipbuilding strategy , has focused particular attention on the royal canadian navy ( rcn ) .  the rcn and coast guard will play a major role in enforcing national laws and regulations on fishing , the environment , shipping and smuggling . however , the major burden will fall on the royal canadian air force  today , the rcaf is a " southern , " overseas air force that goes north only when necessary . only four twin otter aircraft are permanently deployed to the north , at yellowknife , with joint task force north headquarters . they undertake a variety of missions , including search and rescue ( sar ) .  a small number of cf-18 fighters , deployed at cold lake and bagotville , and assigned to norad , are dedicated to the air-sovereignty mission . their primary use continues to be to intercept russian bombers on training missions as they approach canadian air space . four forward operating locations ( fols ) , co-located with civilian airports in yellowknife , inuvik , iqaluit and rankin inlet were developed in the 1980s for the dispersal of cf-18s to the north . in addition , the aurora surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft undertake regular arctic patrols .  to monitor canadian and north american air space in the north , the north warning system ( nws ) replaced norad 's distant early warning radar line in the 1980s . it primarily consists of automated the northwest passage . finally , the rcaf operates canadian forces station alert on the northern tip of ellesmere island . the station performs a signals intelligence function and supports sar .  it is projected that over the next decade there will be an exponential increase in shipping and resource exploitation activity in the arctic . if so , the rcaf will be required to monitor canada 's arctic on a daily basis . more activity also means an increase in search and rescue demands . as such , the rcaf will have no choice but to shift resources to the north on a permanent basis .  to meet this demand , the existing fols likely will become permanent bases for forward deployed surveillance and reconnaissance and sar aircraft . the aurora , or possibly future unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ) , will play a vital role in monitoring traffic over this expansive area . though uavs can be operated from bases in the south through satellite links , they will still need to be maintained at their bases in the north .  being cued by the will provide tracking of shipping and fishing vessels , the identification of targets of interest , and direction of rcn or coast guard vessels for interception purposes . permanently deployed sar aircraft and helicopters will be necessary to provide rapid response to accidents in the north . in addition , helicopters also will potentially provide a rapid response interception capability .  there is also a slight possibility that the cf-18 or its replacement will need to be permanently deployed to the north . however , the likelihood that significant military threats will emerge in the arctic is very low , especially as a function of the harsh environment .  finally , the north warning system will likely be expanded northward as part of its future modernization , with all the attendant costs of building new sites .  currently , the rcaf is developing a northern plan to meet future demand . regardless of the details , the costs will be significant . building and staffing permanent bases will be expensive , although some costs may be offset by other government departments and agencies in response to increased civilian no need to acquire a dedicated arctic aircraft : the current and planned inventory of multi-role aircraft will be able to meet this requirement . that will reduce some costs . however , aircraft and personnel deployed to the north on a permanent basis will impact the ability of the rcaf to meet its other demands .  costs related to the retention and recruitment of personnel also will be significant . canadians may have an emotional attachment to the north , but this does not necessarily mean that rcaf personnel and their families will look forward to being posted there for several years .  in order to meet these costs , the key issue for the rcaf is whether government will be willing to provide the necessary funding . if not , the rcaf will be strained to the breaking point , which will cascade throughout the organization as it confronts other significant investment demands on its equipment and personnel .  national post  james fergusson is a research fellow with the canadian defence and foreign affairs institute .