Farm Credit: A Crown full of risks
http://business.financialpost.com/fp-comment/farm-credit-a-crown-full-of-risks

North America 's population in the 19th century spread from east to west , driven in the main by farming . And where farmers planted themselves , so grew a demand for farm credit , and eastern bankers followed them .  Drought and crop failure repeatedly parched farmers ' credit , and their bankers ' , and when fresh credit got tough to get , the farmers turned to government for help . Here , farm economics and politics led to the 1920s ' Canadian Farm Loan Board , created to offer mortgages to respond to a perceived lack of credit for Western farmers .  The Farm Credit Corporation replaced the board in 1959 , with a broader mandate that included consulting services for farmers . The former board operated mostly on a for-profit basis , but FCC 's lending rate was set at 5% , well below profitability , amounting to an interest rate subsidy to farmers . By the 1970s , as the corporation 's losses mounted , interest rates were set at " the cost of funds plus 1.25% . "  Farm Credit Corporation Act . The new Act allowed FCC to finance farm-related enterprises , and bigger farms . It did not limit FCCs activities to filling gaps left by the private sector . These steps -- the shift from for-profit to subsidized farm credit , and the expansion to areas where there was no clear market failure -- signaled departure from FCC 's original credit-gap mandate . Changes in 2001 allowed FCC to offer more of financial and business management services , and widened FCC 's potential clientele to include more farm-related businesses , including those not farmer-owned . And FCC has seen tremendous growth : Its share of farm debt grew from about 14% in 1992 to 29% by the end of 2011 .  FCC 's share of farm debt stands against that of all chartered banks , which hold 36% , and all credit unions , which hold another 16% . FCC has expanded its activities , enlarged its capital base to do so , and built market in a field where the private sector is historically competitive .  FCC 's success owes much to its government , and it borrows directly from the federal government on terms that reflect Ottawa 's credit quality . It does not face the same regulatory capital requirements as other financial institutions , and pays no corporate income tax . And FCC 's loan offerings and terms are different from others ' . FCC loans tend to have long amortization periods , higher loan-to-value ratios , and the corporation stands at least as ready as others to lend against supply management ( dairy and poultry farm ) quotas and to offer interest-only loans . It finances farmers who sign Ontario " green energy " supply contacts . Other offerings seem likely to encourage debt and inflate farm asset values :  The Capacity Builder Loan , to finance quota purchases or livestock , with an option to capitalize interest ( in turn , deeply investing FCC , and federal taxpayers , in maintaining the farm quota system ) .  None of these is inherently inappropriate , but they are risky , in much the same way that so-called subprime mortgage lending is risky . Loans characterized by low down payments early accumulations of interest due , or involve balloon or variable future payments , have a higher default rate than more traditional loans .  Now , lending under such risky conditions carries an interest rate premium . For small business lending , a typical risk premium might be 300 basis points above prime . Of course , FCC does not charge such a premium and , unsurprisingly , its relatively risky loan books carry an impairment ratio that exceeds its competitors ' . And risks have been growing alongside farm indebtedness as a percent of net income ( see graph ) .  The implications are simple but serious : FCC competes with private-sector lenders in offering financing services to farmers and others ; its market share has been growing without a regulatory capital constraint ; and farm lending has grown relative to farm income , an indicator of rising risk in the sector . The increased financial risks also appear on the asset side of farms ' balance sheets . The values of farms and buildings , and farm quota values , have shown effervescent increases in recent years ' total assets ( see graph ) . And FCC 's lending has grown even faster than farm asset values .  Of course , credit tends to drive asset prices , and increases tend to be followed by sharp revaluations . Recent farm debt growth , coupled with FCC 's aggressive strategies , warrants closer examination by regulators and taxpayers . The potential impacts are not only related to FCC : Its market pressure pushes private lenders to adjust their own lending standards , to remain competitive .  Canadian regulators need to monitor the situation more closely . FCC , as is the case for the BDC and EDC , is not formally subject to a prudential regulator . As a starting place , FCC should be brought under OSFI supervision .  Letters to the editor  Please include your address and daytime telephone number . We give preference to letters that refer to a particular article by headline , author and date .  If your letter concerns articles in other sections of the National Post , including business articles that appear in the A section , and other materials sent to the publisher and accepted for publication remains with the author , but the publisher and its licensees may freely reproduce them in print , electronic and other forms .