Mary Leakey, the 'grande dame of archeology,' gets a Google ...
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/mary-leakey-the-the-grande-dame-of-archeology-gets-a-google-celebration-for-her-100th-birthday

mary leakey , the ' grande dame of archeology , ' gets a google celebration for her 100th birthday  mary leakey , the ' grande dame of archeology , ' turns 100  mary leakey cemented her status as a giant of archeology in 1959 with one confident cry : " i 've found him -- i 've found our man ! "  she was calling out to her husband , louis , after coming across a bone protruding from stones during an expedition in tanzania . " her man " was an australopithecus boisei ape -- about 1.8 million years old . his was the first fossilized skull ever found from the extinct , human-related species .  leakey , the " grande dame of archeology , " as author virginia morrell put it , would have turned 100 wednesday . to mark the occasion , google converted its logo into a tribute to the british archaeologist .  the australopithecus boisei skull was one of several important discoveries leakey made in her career -- all made despite the fact that she had nearly she got thrown out of school very early on and never wanted to go back , and became hugely interested in archaeology , " richard leakey , her son , told archaeology magazine  she had been working as an illustrator for archeological books , which was how she met her eventual husband , archeologist louis leakey .  in their time working together , the couple made significant discoveries in the field , including uncovering the homo habili " handy man " and , later , the laetoli footprints -- which showed human-like walking patterns from 3.6 million years ago .  leakey died in 1996 at the age of 83 . " she was one of the world 's great originals , " anatomist dr. alan walker , who had accompanied the leakey family on expeditions , told the new york times for her obituary .  she was one of the world 's great originals  " untrained except in art , she developed techniques of excavation and descriptive archeology and did it all on her own in the middle of africa , " he added . " death , her family name is still making headlines in the world of archeology . just a few months ago , meave leakey , mary 's daughter-in-law , made news after her team reported finding a new species of humans from two million years ago .  to honour mary 's 100th birthday , the leakey foundation is encouraging people to donate $100 in her honour to further scientific knowledge of human origins .