'Incompatible with life': Mother's account of her difficult decision to ...
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/canada/incompatible-with-life-one-mothers-account-of-her-difficult-decision-to-request-a-rare-late-term-abortion

' Incompatible with life ' : Mother 's account of her difficult decision to request a late-term abortion sheds light on ' live-born ' debate  One mother 's account of her difficult decision to request a rare , late-term abortion  Twenty-one weeks into her second pregnancy , when the fetus was diagnosed with a rare bone disease , Carol determined she had two options : Miscarry the baby naturally and deliver a child with a shattered skeleton that would live for a matter of seconds or request a rare late-term abortion .  " I found out when I was five months pregnant , and ... by the time you 're five months pregnant you 're all in , " said Carol , not her real name . " There 's no great outcome in these situations . "  Babies without lungs , kidneys , spines , bones or brains : These are the rare " incompatible with life " conditions that clinicians say prompt most , if not all , of Canada 's contentious " live born " abortions . According to Statistics and 2009 .  But while three MPs drafted a Jan. 23 letter to the RCMP citing these " live born " abortions as evidence of premeditated " homicide " in Canadian hospitals , clinicians and veterans of the procedure maintain that in Canada , the only fetuses terminated in late-stage abortions are those whose fates are already sealed .  Carol 's fetus was killed by the procedure , but it was virtually identical to those that result in live births .  " I want people to understand what these women have been through before they start accusing the doctors who helped them of being murderers , " said Carol .  In 2010 , 537 Canadian women underwent abortions after 21 weeks of pregnancy , not including Quebec . According to Wendy Norman , a clinical professor at the University of British Columbia , " almost everyone " in those cases " has some different anomaly . "  Some have fetal anencephaly , a condition in which the fetus fails to develop a brain .  Others fail to develop kidneys , a condition known as Potter  Many times , said Dr. Norman , the specific defect is so rare that it does not even have a proper medical name .  After an ultrasound at 21 weeks , Carol 's fetus was diagnosed with osteogenesis imperfecta , a genetic disorder that results in severe bone fragility .  Less severe versions of the condition are survivable , although they result in physical deformities into adulthood . Carol 's fetus , however , had one of the most extreme cases .  If the baby was naturally stillborn , said Carol , she would have needed to select a name , learn the child 's gender and make funeral arrangements .  Carol requested a late-stage abortion , adding that the procedure was never broached by medical staff , and even finding a physician qualified to perform it was a challenge .  " They 're not offering these things up . It was n't even presented as an option , " she said .  If anything , she said , hospital staff made sure to explain why some women will carry a known stillborn to birth .  Blogs and online pregnancy forums abound with testimonials from women who carried their children to term with full knowledge that they would not live more than a matter of minutes .  I savored every kick and turn she made inside my growing belly  " I savored every kick and turn she made inside my growing belly , " wrote one woman of her decision to carry a fetus with fetal anencephaly to term .  Wrote another woman whose fetus was diagnosed with Potter 's Syndrome , " I chose to carry to term and made it to 37 1/2 weeks when we had a C-section ... He lived just under three hours , the happiest and saddest hours of my life . "  Speaking to the Post in November , Dr. Douglas Black , president of the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , speculated that similar sentiments may underlie the 491 " live-born " abortions between 2000 and 2009 .  As hospitals will routinely administer a lethal injection to a fetus prior to a later-stage abortion , Dr. Black guessed that any aborted due to the " private choice " of a mother .  Such fetuses are " subsequently allowed to pass away , depending on what the circumstances are , sometimes in their mom 's arms , " he said .  For Carol , there were physical risks of carrying the fetus to term over another four months , but she said it was also a psychological decision .  " The idea of having the pain of childbirth compounded by the really emotional trauma of losing a child , it was a lot to take on . ... I do n't think I would have been able to think about having more babies subsequently , " she said . She has since given birth to a second child in a complications-free pregnancy .