Tell the dogs something they haven't known all along
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/arts-and-life/entertainment/books/tell-the-dogs-something-they-havent-known-all-along-191514411.html

tell the dogs something they have n't known all along  here 's the answer : of course you do . all dog owners , in their heart of hearts , are convinced their drooling pet is the canine version of einstein , only with better grooming .  gus ruelas / purina / the associated press archives  cochiti , a six-year-old whippet , competes in a diving dog competition . a new book argues dogs are smarter than you think .  cp  stray dogs in moscow are smart enough to use public transport , a fact accepted by muscovites who do n't crowd them on the subway .  the thing is , they 're right : dogs are geniuses .  in this well-researched , highly readable book , author brian hare -- a scientist who is becoming known throughout the world as " that dog guy " -- has laid out a compelling argument for the unique genius of man 's best friend .  it 's not that your dog has the skill to paint a masterpiece or compose a a special kind of intelligence that gives them more in common with human infants than their wolf ancestors .  written with his co-researcher and wife , vanessa woods , the genius of dogs is the first book to provide a complete look at the new world of " dog cognition , " which has been playfully dubbed " dognition . "  for hundreds of years , researchers largely overlooked the millions of domesticated dogs that serve as pets or service animals , comfortably working alongside humans .  but in the last 10 years , there has been something of a revolution in the study of canine intelligence , and hare has been the scientist leading the charge .  " we have learned more about how dogs think in the past decade than we have in the previous century , " hare writes . " this book is about how cognitive science has come to understand the genius of dogs through experimental games using nothing much more high-tech than toys , cups , balls and anything else lying around the garage . "  an evolutionary anthropologist , centre . most importantly , he 's a dog lover . and , thankfully , he 's not a blowhard .  in journalism , there 's a warning : when dealing with experts , beware the expertise . the concern is when academics write books , they tend to bash readers over the head with scientific jargon in an effort to ensure everyone understands just how clever they are .  thankfully , hare , aided by his journalist wife , has crafted a game-changing book that , while faithfully documenting complex research , is clear , jargon-free and relies on a simple narrative style to deliver a truly gripping read .  what does hare mean when he says dogs are geniuses ? well , he 's mostly referring to their ability to spontaneously make inferences , to solve problems by reading human gestures .  hare recalls his time working at emory university under a professor named mike tomasello , who was trying to figure out what makes us human . one day , mike was lamenting that only humans understand " communicative intentions , " which allow pointing .  at that moment , the author had a flash of insight . " i think my dog can do it , " he blurted .  and , through a series of experiments in his parents ' garage with their dog , oreo , he proved just that . it turns out that dogs have a unique ability to follow human gestures , such as pointing , to locate a food reward hidden under one of a series of plastic cups .  in fact , dogs are at the top of the class compared with wolves and chimps and other wild animals . " in short , " hare writes , " mike and i concluded that dogs have communicative skills that are amazingly similar to those of infants . "  the long-standing belief is that domesticated dogs are less intelligent than wild animals such as wolves and foxes , yet the central point of the genius of dogs is that the opposite is true -- human contact has actually increased the genius of the species .  with a nod to darwin , hare says a friendly wild dog , one that was willing to tolerate proximity to humans , was favoured with a great reward -- a new food supply known as " garbage . "  hare also dispels the myth that scientists have had their senses of humour surgically removed .  in one chapter , he recounts a hilarious , if uncomfortable , evening spent in a russian sauna , where the other researchers insisted on calling him " brain " instead of brian .  " i sat naked in a russian banya , " he writes . " the air in the sauna was so dry and hot , it scorched my windpipe all the way down to my lungs ... the other eight russian men , also naked , were leaning against the cedar walls , their eyes closed in ecstasy , as though slowly roasting yourself alive was the most relaxing thing in the world . "  there 's a lot more vodka and jumping through holes in the ice involved , but you can find that out for yourself . we also are n't going to the smartest .  you 're going to have to go out and buy the book . in fact , we suggest you pick up two -- get one for your dog , because , after all , he 's a genius .  book review  history  updated on saturday , february 16 , 2013 at 1:43 pm cst : adds fact box  you can comment on most stories on winnipegfreepress.com . you can also agree or disagree with other comments . all you need to do is be a winnipeg free press print or e-edition subscriber to join the conversation and give your feedback .