Botox makes you look better - and feel better
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/fashion-and-beauty/beauty/sarah-hampson-botox-makes-you-look-better-and-feel-better/article8500294/

video  video  if you said ( f ) , you 're right . in the perfumed salons of rosedale , toronto 's gilded midtown neighbourhood , i have heard people whisper about another that " she really should do something about those lines " as though a shot of botox is a matter of simple maintenance , like having your leaves blown off your lawn . to not do it is seen as a failure of community manners .  i have also observed women who submit to the facial needle out of a sense of obligation to their physical beauty . they may never say this , of course , but the sentiment is there . that their effort to preserve it often goes awry and they end up looking like plastic versions of themselves ( i 'm looking at you , nicole kidman ) is not the point . it 's often a function of identity : they are their beauty . not to try to sustain it is akin to not fully using the brain you were born with .  and look like a grouch when they do n't feel they are . in her book lots of candles , plenty of cake , anna quindlen , the 60-year-old novelist and journalist who famously chronicled thirtysomething life back in the 1980s , wrote that she started using botox for her frown lines in her mid-50s because she did n't want to look cross when she was n't . " and it 's addictive , " she told me with a laugh when i interviewed her about the book . this is where the botox-as-sex metaphor comes in . once you get a taste of it , it 's hard not to want a repeat , er , injection .  it is the treatment of depression through botox , though , that is as new as a baby 's skin . in the face of emotion : how botox affects our moodsand relationships , released two weeks ago , eric finzi , a dermatological surgeon , writes of the link between facial expressions and emotions . his theories and anecdotal evidence have recently been corroborated by thorough medical studies . ( incidentally d ) above , which he heard from one of his patients . )  it 's not simply that a botox injection to the face can make you feel happier because you look better .  that 's the assumption many make , finzi acknowledges in an interview from chevy chase , md. , where he lives and works . and he does n't dispute that looking good makes you feel good -- that 's his business after all .  rather , finzi 's work centres around the new and controversial idea that our facial expressions not only reflect our emotions , but also cause them . it 's a " facial feedback theory of emotion " that he describes as a continuous looping of signals or pathways between muscles and the brain . basically , the more you frown , the more the brain experiences negative messaging . so when botox inhibits the frown muscle , " that electrical circuit is clamped off , " finzi explains over the phone .  in 2003 , he started a clinical trial to test his hypothesis that botox inhibition of scientific theories from the 19th century , including charles darwin 's the expression of the emotions in manand animals , in which the celebrated scientist wrote : " the free expression by outward signs of an emotion intensifies it . on the other hand , the repression , as far as this is possible , of all outward signs softens our emotions . "  finally , finzi realized that he had a way to test ancient hypotheses with a modern tool : botox .  his small studies also piqued the interest of axel wollmer , a psychiatrist at the university of basel in switzerland . last year , results of his randomized controlled study on the effects of botox on depression were published in the journal of psychiatric research , showing significant statistical results . the study investigated whether patients who suffered from clinical depression and had not responded to antidepressant medications could be helped with botox injections in their frown lines .  participants in the treatment group were given a single dose of botox ( five injections ) between and just above their eyebrows . an equal-sized botox , symptoms of depression decreased 47 per cent after six weeks and lasted through the 16-week study period . in the placebo group , there was a nine per cent reduction in symptoms . wollmer concluded that botox " interrupts feedback from the facial musculature to the brain , which may be involved in the development and maintenance of negative emotion . "  what has hindered investigations into botox and depression is the stigma it carries as merely a tool for the vain even though its uses for medical conditions such as cerebral palsy , parkinson 's disease and migraines are well known , finzi says .  " do n't blame the molecule ! " he implores with a laugh . " do n't attach whatever feelings you have about cosmetic procedures to its potential usefulness for other things . i would predict that , by the end of 2013 , there will be not only one but three randomized , controlled , double-blind tests that will have been completed .  and when all three are published , that will be very powerful stuff . "  pharmaceutical companies .  depression , of course , is a serious problem . and anything that can help alleviate it is significant . but i ca n't help but think that this news would provide the perfect excuse for indulging in botox from here on in . " it 's not for my vanity , darling , " you could say at swishy soirees as your friends notice your newly unfurrowed brow .