St Maarten offers a hand to Jamaica's tourism
http://www.jamaicaobserver.com/news/St-Maarten-offers-a-hand-to-Jamaica-s-tourism_78817

News  St Maarten offers a hand to Jamaica 's tourism  FLORIDA , USA -- St Maarten Prime Minister William Marlin has offered to assist Jamaica and other Caribbean Islands with the development of their fledging timeshare markets .  St Maarten is among the small number of countries in the region that are said to be taking advantage of the lucrative timeshare market , which recorded global sales of US$19.6 billion last year .  In fact , industry players have described St Maarten as " the trendsetter in the timeshare business " in the Caribbean .  " Other Caribbean destinations need to come on board and be more receptive to the timeshare business , and St Maarten is willing to share their experiences with other countries in the region , " said Martin during a panel discussion on the topic ' Timeshare 's Economic Impact on Destination Markets ' , at the 18th Annual Shared Ownership Investment Conference at the Eden Roc Miami Beach Hotel in Florida last week .  Timeshare is a model in which multiple parties own rights to use  Stressing the importance of tourism to St Maarten 's economy , Marlin said the industry accounts for 80 per cent of the revenues generated , three-quarters of which , he said , is derived from the timeshare sub-sector .  " Timeshare started in our island over 40 years ago and despite our small size and population , we have developed and expanded and is now a leader in the timeshare business in that part of the Caribbean . For the past 15 years , 75 per cent of our stay-over tourists have been persons who stayed at timeshare properties , " he stated .  Martin said that St Maarten has the highest percentage of repeat visitors in the timeshare business in the Caribbean , adding that the sub-sector contributes US$500 million annually to the economy .  Tourism Minister Edmund Bartlet , who was also one of the panellists , later told the  Jamaica Observer that Jamaica would be willing to learn from the experiences of other countries , including St Maarten , which has a vibrant timeshare market .  " We are interested in best are ready to learn from the experiences of others in the region , " said Bartlett .  " The Caribbean has not had a strong experience in timeshare investments . The bigger countries in the Caribbean have not really embraced timeshare . The Bahamas has some , there are little bits and pieces all around , but we have seen it worked in St Maarten , Aruba and Dominican Republic , and so Jamaica is looking in that direction . "  In his remarks during the panel discussion earlier , the tourism minister told hundreds of industry players that Jamaica was ready to conduct business in the lucrative timeshare industry .  He noted that the Timeshare Vacation Act , which came into effect on May 1 , signalled that the island is open for business .  " We represent a new frontier with new opportunities and new prospects . So I am here primarily to begin the conversations for us to embrace some of your experiences and , more importantly , your investments , because we want to diversify our product offerings , particularly in the accommodations are a few timeshare properties in Jamaica , which account for less than one per cent of the market in the region .  The island 's poor showing in that tourism sub-sector has long been blamed , by tourism industry stakeholders primarily , on the delay by the country in putting in legislation to guide property development and to protect the interests of investors and consumers .  Bartlett noted that successive governments have long recognised that the timeshare sub-sector is a key element of diversification which could provide a better flow of experiences that will enable the country to respond to the diverse needs of consumers and visitors .  He said he has already identified several coastal areas which have high elevations and " certain privacy " that are best suited for timeshare business , adding that meetings have been held with several potential investors . Other meetings , he said , are planned for later this year .  And Howard Nusbaum , the president and chief executive officer of the American Resort Development Association ( ARDA ) , while commending Jamaica for putting the timeshare legislation aspects of the law to see how it will be beneficial to investors and customers .  " We are looking at the law to see if that law matches where we want to go ... I applaud the Government for creating rules , passing the legislation , now we need to roll up our sleeves and look at the details of the legislation . There has to be a delicate balance . A good legislation needs to protect both consumers and developers , so if you do it right , then you can create a very vibrant industry , " he argued .  He stressed , however , that ARDA is willing to work with the Jamaican Government to develop its timeshare market .  " Jamaica has made a commitment to the industry , and for that I am grateful , and I want to work with the Government to make sure that they have the best consumer protection , and yet a platform that will grow their economy , " said Nusbaum .  Dmitri Pekhterev , Interval International 's assistant vice-president for resorts sales and services that over the past four months there has been a renewed interest in Jamaica by developers .  " The legislation definitely helps . It has brought a renewed interest , and it will show that timeshare is a business that produces a lot of benefits for developers as well as the country 's economy , " he argued , stressing that " there is a lot of demand for Jamaica " .  ADVERTISEMENT  POST A COMMENT  HOUSE RULES  1 . We welcome reader comments on the top stories of the day . Some comments may be republished on the website or in the newspaper -- email addresses will not be published .  2 . Please understand that comments are moderated and it is not always possible to publish all that have been submitted . We will , however , try to publish comments that are representative of all received .  3 . We ask that comments are civil and free of libellous or hateful material . Also please stick to the topic under discussion .  4 . Please do not write in block @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @