Accolades galore in regal farewell to Brian George
http://www.jamaicaobserver.com/news/Accolades-galore-in-regal-farewell-to-Brian-George_78868

news  accolades galore in regal farewell to brian george  " my father was a man who could , in the words of rudyard kipling , talk with crowds and keep his virtue , or walk with kings -- nor lose the common touch , " christopher george , brian george 's older son , said in his tribute at the service of thanksgiving for his father yesterday .  this was evident by the fact that individuals from all walks of life filled the st andrew parish church in half-way-tree to pay their last respects to the late business mogul who died suddenly last sunday after suffering a heart attack .  current and former members of government and the opposition , including prime minister andrew holness , former prime minister pj patterson , former minister of finance dr peter phillips , cabinet ministers and members of the public and private sectors packed into the church to celebrate george 's life and his contribution to jamaica .  christopher , in relating an excerpt from a letter to the family written by patterson , noted 's truly amazing that one who lived and worked in jamaica for 30 years has left such an indelible impression on our national landscape . since the arrival of brian george here as president and ceo of supreme ventures limited ( svl ) , his energy and superb managerial talent extended well beyond the development of a corporate enterprise to embrace dedicated service to all members of our sporting organisations and several of our country 's institutions , " george related in his tribute from patterson 's letter to the family .  the former president of svl was also described as a compassionate individual who made an effort to assist all he could .  " daddy left a lasting impression on everyone , " christopher stated . " there was never a problem too small for my daddy to solve . he was so generous with giving his time and energy ; friends and family often saw a different side -- soft , kinder and a comedian . when i asked many about how you met my father it often involved him telling you a joke , " he agreement .  " he was our king ... he made us feel safe no matter how far we ventured , and allowed us freedom to explore and discover , and was always there to give advice and subtly guide us in the right direction , " christopher remembered .  a torn matthew george -- his younger son -- remembered his father as a friend and mentor .  " my father was the most loyal friend , as many of you all know . this made him the consummate social worker , always smiling , always ready to have conversation and openly talk ; he really had the gift of that , whether serious business or ' old talk ' as the trinis say , " he noted .  though a talker , matthew quickly pointed out that his father was also " always willing to listen " .  " my father lost his father at the young age of 17 and always indicated that he would have loved to have more time with him , so my brother and i are totally thankful that we were with our dad . we do feel that one more minute would have changed our lives , but are grateful for the time we had with him , " he said in-between sniffles .  " brian possessed a most brilliant mind , a mind grounded in arithmetic , science and logic , but expanded by literature , poetry , prose and a breathtaking mental agility . the quickness and speed of his mind was bolt-like .  " brian was one of those very rare human beings who had an intellectual breadth and depth that was awesome , yet he was neither pompous nor arrogant with this supremacy . he would engage in discussions on any topic , with anyone , at any time . he respected all views even if he strongly disagreed with them , such was the character of the man , " stated scott with pride .  matthew and christopher both expressed gratitude to jamaicans who embraced and supported their father -- a trinidadian .  " i would like to thank keneea , especially , that my dad was able to find someone who thick and thin you were there , " matthew said of george 's widow just before he broke down in tears .  the ashes of brian george will be inurned on a date to be decided . the 59-year-old was serving as president and ceo of svl when he died .  advertisement  post a comment  house rules  1 . we welcome reader comments on the top stories of the day . some comments may be republished on the website or in the newspaper -- email addresses will not be published .  2 . please understand that comments are moderated and it is not always possible to publish all that have been submitted . we will , however , try to publish comments that are representative of all received .  3 . we ask that comments are civil and free of libellous or hateful material . also please stick to the topic under discussion .  4 . please do not write in block capitals since this makes your comment hard to read .