Best of New York: Croissant
http://www.nydailynews.com/life-style/eats/best-new-york-croissant-article-1.1231756

a sublime croissant at french tart in grant city , staten island .  french tart chef laurent chavenet claims to work in the only authentic french cafe and restaurant in staten island . and he just might be right . opened in 2009 , french tart is one of those hidden gems that food lovers so often hear about in the outer boroughs , but so rarely find . baked fresh every morning by chavenet himself , the croissants are a work of art . the texture runs from crispy on the outside to soft and airy on the inside . according to chavenet , the secret to making a great croissant is in quality ingredients , especially the butter , and the folding of the dough , which chavenet demonstrates on a napkin . while the plain croissant is outstanding , the almond croissant is truly world-class . moist , sweet and decadent , it 's more of a dessert than a breakfast item , but go ahead and dig in any time of day . after all , life is short . eat dessert colson patisserie , in park slope , uses two types of flour in its croissants .  in 1986 , pastry chef hubert colson first opened his famed pastry shop in mons , belgium . barely 20 years later , yonatan israel , a french filmmaker searching for structure and opportunity in life , opened his own shop as a tribute to his favorite pastry chef . and so the park slope outpost of colson patisserie was born . what a gift for pastry lovers in brooklyn ! colson 's croissants ( $2.45 ) seem light enough to float above the table and rich enough to melt in your mouth . two types of flour are used in the dough , which is then folded six to eight times . eighty croissants are made daily for the pastry shop , which is small but well-lit by a storefront of large windows . sweet but not candied , these croissants taste like a big puff of flaky butter , which is just what every new yorker needs to start off their day . as israel says , " new york is the to change that . "  you ca n't talk about croissants in new york city without mentioning master pastry chef laurent dupal and his spring st. shop ceci-cela . since his quaint cafe opened in 1992 , dupal has consistently made some of the flakiest , butteriest , airiest croissants ( $2 ) in the five boroughs . dupal credits fresh ingredients , a controlled setting and years of experience for the excellent taste of his croissants , hundreds of which are sold a day in the patisserie . in fact , dupal compares baking croissants with raising a child . " everyone does it differently , " he says , " and , no matter what , you have to adjust to the temperament of the dough , which ca n't be too thin or too thick . " take some home for the whole family . a pack of six frozen croissants costs $7 and can be baked at home .  your two cents  the croissant at chock full o ' nuts cafe ( 1611 avenue m , brooklyn ) is very buttery inside and outside good with a side of butter/jelly along with a cup of regular or flavored coffee or chai latte or tea . service is very courteous , but a little slow . -- tzivia m.  stork 's bakery , located at 12-42 150th st. in whitestone , makes the perfect croissant . its golden , flaky , light crust is pleasing to the eye , and it draws you into its succulent flavor , which is light , rich and satisfying . be sure to get there early in the a.m. if you wish to partake in this culinary delight . they sell out quickly . -- carol d.  the best croissant in the city can be found at city bakery ( 3 w. 18th st. in manhattan ) . the pretzel croissant , as it 's called , combines the rich buttery body of a typical croissant with the salty crispness of a pretzel. -- christopher o.  the croissants at the standard hotel are the tastiest in the city . the secret is in the sourdough they add to it ! also , buttery and flaky as all the upper west side has the best croissant i 've had in nyc . it 's flaky on the outside , but buttery and perfectly doughy on the inside . it 's the best croissant i 've had outside of paris . -- colman c.  you suggest it , we 'll test it  we 're in search of the best of the city , but we need your help . send your picks for the following , and we 'll try them !