Author of The Warriors, Cult Film Adapted to Hit Video Game, Dies at ...
http://kotaku.com/5973495/author-of-the-warriors-cult-film-adapted-to-hit-video-game-dies-at-88

sol yurick , the writer whose 1965 novel " the warriors " was adapted into a film 14 years later -- which then became one of the best adapted works ever in video gaming -- died this weekend . he was 88 .  yurick 's work itself was a loose adaptation of a story told 2,300 years before : anabasis , which chronicles the journey of greek mercenaries through hostile territory after the death of their leader . yurick 's book , and the warriors both open with a grand council of street gangs , convened in the bronx , and the murder of the leader who called for the gathering ( cyrus , a direct reference to the leader of the greeks in anabasis ) . but the stories then diverge significantly .  walter hill , the director of the warriors , strove to give a comic-book depiction of the gang 's flight from the bronx back to their coney island turf . ( indeed , in yurick 's book , the gang 's mascot , junior , reads a comic book version of , each faction was given a name and a costume theme invoking it , typified by the iconic " baseball furies " the protagonist warriors fight in riverside park . after making their way through rival gangs ' turf in manhattan and then back to coney island , the warriors defeat the gang responsible for cyrus ' death .  advertisement  the warriors became a cult hit , partly because its exaggerated portrayal of new york city 's lawlessness fit with the image of violent crime and decay that blighted the city in the late 1970s . a staple of saturday and sunday afternoon movie programming on uhf stations , the film faded from popular memory until rockstar resurrected it as a video game 26 years later .  sponsored  the warriors , released in 2005 for the xbox and ps2 , began with a three-minute recreation of the film 's opening sequence ( shown above ) . set to the blood pumping guitar and synthesizer of barry vorzon 's original soundtrack , it 's one of the best openings a video game has ever had . critics familiar well in a year full of big hits . primarily a brawler , with some limited open-world features , the game also served as a canonical prologue to the all-gang meeting in the bronx . it is playable only on the playstation 2 and original xbox ; a version for the psp was released in 2007.