That's What They Say: Dialect Society chooses its words of the year
http://michiganradio.org/post/thats-what-they-say-dialect-society-chooses-its-words-year

That 's What They Say : Dialect Society chooses its words of the year  For this week 's edition of " That 's What They Say , " University of Michigan Professor Anne Curzan spoke with us from Boston , where she was attending the American Dialect Society 's annual meeting , whose 200 members voted on their " Word of the Year . "  Rina Miller : So the winner is ?  Anne : The winner is " hashtag . " It was a surprise entry . It was nominated from the floor . I must admit , I went in thinking " fiscal cliff " had this hands down . I thought there was no way anything would beat that , but fiscal cliff did n't even make the runoff . It was hashtag vs. marriage equality .  Rina : Why hashtag ?  Anne : The argument was that while the word hashtag has been around since 2007 , this was the year of the hashtag . This was the year that hashtag was everywhere in the Twittersphere and beyond , making memes go viral .  Rina : And what were the winners in some of the other categories ?  Anne : Marriage equality , which was in the runoff for word of the year , actually won most likely to succeed . And I thought it was a very interesting entry . The argument was that as the country has changed its attitudes about marriage equality , we 've seen the terminology shift from same-sex marriage or gay marriage to marriage equality . And people pointed out that when textbooks write this up as a movement , it will be about the movement for marriage equality .  Rina : Tell us about some of the other categories .  Anne : One of my favorites , most years , is the most creative word of the year . And there were two terrific candidates this year . One is " mansplaining , " which is defined as a man 's condescending explanation to a female audience . It 's designed to capture a certain kind of male behavior . It did mean that during the discussion of talking because they could easily be accused of mansplaining every time they tried to say anything , even though it was a mixed-gender audience .  Rina : That 's never happened to me , has it to you , Anne ?  Anne : No , never .  The mansplaining was up against " gate lice " -- a description of passengers on an airplane who crowd around the gate waiting to board .  Rina : I love that !  Anne : I loved it , too , and I particularly liked the singular , which is gate louse .  Rina : And who does n't know that ? Maybe we 've even been a louse .  Anne : And now we have such a great way to talk about it . We can say , " Look at all the gate lice . "  Rina : There 's also the most unnecessary and the most outrageous categories . Those are more serious .  Anne : They are more serious . And this year the same phrase won in both categories . It Senate candidate Todd Akins . And someone pointed out when we were voting for most unnecessary , that it came up again under most outrageous on the ballot . And someone yelled out , " It should win both . " And it did .  Rina : And which word was least likely to succeed ?  Anne : That was a tie . One of the first I remember . It was a tie between " YOLO , " which our listeners over about 25 or 30 may be less familiar with . It is an acronym for " you only live once . " It came to prominence this year from the rapper , Drake . He had a song in which he talked about you only live once -- YOLO -- and I think there are a number of young people who got YOLO tattoos , which they are going to come to regret , because students tell me it is already very unhip .  YOLO tied with " phablet , " which is apparently a mid-sized electronic device between a smart phone and a tablet Anne : For the most useful , we had two combining forms . " Pocalypse " or " mageddon , " which you 'll hear people attach to things like " snowmaggedon " or " oilpocalypse " to describe a huge oil spill as a hyperbolic way to talk about a catastrophe .  Rina : There had to be something that came out of the elections .  Anne : The election phrase of the year is " binders full of women . " After presidential candidate Mitt Romney said that , it instantly became a hashtag , and many people have probably seen it circulating online . It beat " 47 percent , " which was also up for word of the year . So both 47 percent and " fiscal cliff " did n't win anything .