Reflecting on a quarter-century of growth in Portland's performing ...
http://www.oregonlive.com/performance/index.ssf/2013/01/reflecting_on_a_quarter-centur.html

Reflecting on a quarter-century of growth in Portland 's performing arts scene  The highlight of the Portland Center for Performing Arts ' grand-opening in 1987 was a performance by high-wire artists Phillippe Petit and Ann Seward , which reflected the thrilling risk the city had taken with the project . Steven Nehl/The Oregonian  Stephanie Mulligan , who has been with Artists Repertory Theatre since the mid 1980s , knew the Portland theater scene in its younger , wilder days . " There were more trails of glitter than there are today -- I mean that literally , " she says . " I like to think there was a lot more nudity , but that might just be a trick of memory . "  These days , Portland theater , and the city 's arts scene in general , is n't so stripped down . But it is much more glittery , if not literally than metaphorically . Look around and you 'll see it : the sparkle of widespread creative activity , the shine of technical and artistic quality .  There 's music -- most definitely in food , if you want to extend the definition of the creative culture -- and perhaps in other areas as well , this is Portland 's golden age . Sure , the city 's artsy eccentricities can grow ripe for lampooning , as the TV spoof " Portlandia " has proved . But such attention would be nonsensical ( or at least much more embarrassing ) if there was n't more going on here than adult kickball leagues and mustache-growing contests , if many of the eccentrics were n't really artists .  A certain shoestring flamboyance , as Mulligan 's recollections of leaner times suggest , is nothing new here . But the size , scope and solidity of the arts in Portland is something that 's grown over the past quarter century .  That 1987 and ' 88 marked a pivotal time in Portland arts was clear even then . More than a decade of planning and haggling was coming to fruition . The idea for a set of new performance spaces began taking place around 1976 due to dissatisfaction with Civic Auditorium satisfying venue ) . In 1981 , voters passed a $19 million bond issue . Next came political squabbles , cost overruns ( from $25 million to $41 million by the time it opened ) and a scramble to find money for operating costs . But eventually the Civic was joined by the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall ( a refurbished 1928 movie palace ) and a new multi-use building next door .  " Ten or 20 years from now , few will remember all the effort , dreaming , planning and yes , the bickering , mistakes and accusations that marked the creation of the Portland Center for the Performing Arts , " The Oregonian 's Joan Laatz wrote in August , 1987 , when the multi-use New Theater Building ( now named Antoinette Hatfield Hall ) opened .  Meanwhile , city officials had been looking for an anchor tenant to take up residence in the center 's the 900-seat space now known as the Newmark Theatre . A study commissioned by the Fred Meyer Trust concluded that not even the city 's top existing theater company , Portland organizationally . Cynthia Fuhrman , a veteran theater marketing exec , recalls that Portland was the largest city in the country that did n't have a company in the League of Resident Theatres , the association of major regional theaters . After being courted on and off for years , Ashland 's Oregon Shakespeare Festival signed on , and its new satellite operation , dubbed Portland Center Stage , stepped into the lights in Nov. 1988 .  After seeing the new company in the new building , Time magazine said that Portland at last could stake a claim to sophistication and social significance . ' '  More so than social stature , the goal was for the PCPA to both bring more touring talents to town and give local troupes a comfortable home that would help them grow their audiences , and for PCS to provide a model of quality , stability and professionalism that might lift the community as a whole . The fear was that higher production costs in the new facilities would make things tougher for most local arts companies , and that the venerable OSF .  " There was so much buzz about OSF coming up , " recalls Beth Harper , who 'd soon launch what 's now called Portland Actors Conservatory . " I was in a show at New Rose and everyone felt like , ' The big guys are coming and we 've never got that kind of attention . ' " " One of the things that still rings true , " Harper adds , " is the big boys are still the big boys and the small ones are still the small ones . "  Though perhaps not . Yes , Center Stage , which split from OSF to become an independent company in 1994 , remains atop the theatrical food chain . What were the largest or most active homegrown companies back in the late ' 80s -- Portland Rep , New Rose , Storefront Portland Civic Theater -- long ago folded . ( As Mulligan recalls , " It took about five years for the dust to settle -- unfortunately the dust was some fine companies . " ) And as it did then , the stage a few shows a year in rented or makeshift spaces .  Numerous factors are involved , not just the anchoring effects of PCPA and PCS , but the theater scene now has a broader range of companies . Artists Repertory Theatre , once a scrappy little operation in rented space at the downtown YWCA , grew to become the city 's No. 2 company , with a $2.4 million budget and its own twin-auditorium home . Down the scale in budget , but punching above their weight artistically , Third Rail Rep , Portland Playhouse and Profile Theatre form a strong middle tier .  However persistent the funding challenges of the dance world , a similar vertical growth , if you will , can be found . In the late ' 80s , Portland had both Ballet Oregon and Pacific Ballet Theatre ; for contemporary dance , Portland State University housed a concert series for touring groups and a top-notch resident company . Now , Oregon Ballet Theatre ( the result of a merger of the aforementioned ballet troupes ) survives , White Bird does concert presenting at Polaris Dance Theatre each have performance spaces and expanding reputations .  " I think the arts scene was like a young teenager then and has grown up a lot , " says Regional Arts &amp; Culture Council executive director Eloise Damrosch , who moved to Portland in ' 87 . " Our reputation as a place to visit has really skyrocketed . I 'm struck when I open up the A&amp;E and see all the options . There 's a lot more happening , and such a range . "  Quantity is n't the only thing that 's changed .  " Back then , there was this grittier , shoestring quality that imbued almost every company , " Mulligan says . " The dedication to art was inspiring ... But when I look back at that earlier renaissance of the ' 80s , the truth was the talent pool of the city needed to step up . "  Jim Fullan , who has worked in marketing at Portland Opera and the Oregon Symphony , says the city has developed a " radically different sense of our place such an inferiority complex regarding Seattle , San Francisco and Los Angeles that it distrusted artistic ambition . " The public would punish you for getting too big for your britches . The prevailing attitude was , ' It 's good enough for us . We like it . ' Now , that 's totally gone . It 's almost the opposite . If you 're not aspiring to be world-class , you 're not on the boat . The arts -- in tandem with food , beer and wine -- have raised us up . "  The building of the PCPA has n't solved all of the performance-space issues for local companies ( there 's a big , problematic gap between the 900-seat Newmark and the Schnitzer and Keller , which seat close to 3,000 ) . And it 's notable that Center Stage had to move to a home of its own , a renovated 19th-century armory in the Pearl District , to begin fulfilling its potential as a truly vibrant hub for the theater scene . But those two big moves have , over time , proved other developments have helped shape the Portland of today . Some observers point to the fundraising success of John and Lucy Buchanan at the Portland Art Museum 1994 to 2005 . " They actually made a case that a great city needs great art , " says BodyVox co-founder Jamey Hampton . " And that put a gauntlet down . "  Leadership changes in 2003 at Portland Opera , Oregon Ballet Theatre and the Oregon Symphony also marked a crucial transition . Hampton points to Tom Manley , president of Pacific Northwest College of Art as " probably the best leader of an arts organization the city has . " PNCA has grown to be a leading creative and economic force in the Pearl District ... and it 's in the process of remaking how that neighborhood looks . It 's not splashy , like when Pink Martini plays New Year 's Eve at the Schnitz . It 's quiet , but it 's really foundational . "  Through it all , the essential challenges remain much the same : make good work , expand audiences , cultivate donors business model , away from a focus on big-money patrons and toward building long-term relationships with supporters of all sorts , nurturing them along the path from first-time ticket buyer to subscriber to contributor and so on . Others point out that the city is awash in heavily subsidized art -- but that the artists themselves provide the subsidy comes from the artists themselves , in the form of the second jobs , lack of health care , or multiple roommates that allow them to subsist as artists .  All together , what 's changed and what 's stayed the same add up to an arts scene that , while still facing major challenges , has grown bigger , wider and better integrated into the world around it .  " I do n't think it happens in isolation , " Fuhrman says . " It 's about the growth of the city as a whole . "