The ABCs of Death: Film Review
http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/review/abcs-death-film-review-426880

Daily Edition  The ABCs of Death : Film Review  Directors of horror and suspense films " The Innkeepers , " " V/H/S , " " Down Terrace " and " Hobo With a Shotgun " contribute to this anthology of 26 short films .  Perhaps seeking to fill the void between installments of the VHS horror-compilation franchise after picking up the second installment S-VHS at Sundance for release later this year , Magnolia Pictures is offering The ABCs of Death as a potential placeholder through its prolific Magnet Releasing genre label . Stronger in concept than execution , this anthology of short films may initially draw theatrical audiences on the strength of the filmmakers ' credentials , although wider appeal is likely to be garnered with digital formats .  Producers Ant Timpson and Drafthouse Films ' Tim League hit on the idea of compiling 26 short films -- one for each letter of the alphabet -- into a feature-length program and showcasing directors from a variety of different countries with projects focusing on death as the central theme . Some admirably recognizable talents V/H/S contributor Adam Wingard , Down Terrace and Sightseers director Ben Wheatley , recent Sundance breakout director Jorge Michel Grau ( We Are What We Are ) , Timo Tjahjanto ( whose " Safe Haven " short was a disturbingly memorable contribution to the upcoming S-VHS ) and cult favorite Yoshihiro Nishimura of Tokyo Gore Police .  Running times vary from just a few minutes to as many as six or seven , forcing the filmmakers to significantly compress their often gruesome narratives . Both the originality and quality of the shorts are equally variable , with the majority coming off as mere genre exercises rather than fully conceived films . Leading off with the first letter of the Roman alphabet , Nacho Vigalondo 's " Apocalypse " is n't nearly as ominous as the title suggests , focusing on a housewife who bloodily dispatches her bedridden husband after unsuccessfully poisoning him for months , impatient for him to meet his demise .  With the possible exception of " Dogfight , " Marcel Sarmiento 's gritty take on a cage fighter who battles a vicious dog barehanded , and Iguchi , the series does n't really hit its stride until about halfway through , with Tjahjanto 's " Libido . " Strapped down in heavy wooden chairs , two captive men are forced to pleasure themselves for a masked audience while watching various live sex acts , with the second-place finisher summarily and grotesquely executed . Shot in an urgent , feverish style , the wan , desaturated color scheme sharply contrasts with the extremity of the men 's dire predicament .  " Nuptials " from Banjong Pisanthanakun , the Thai director of horror film Shutter , injects some welcome humor into the grim proceedings . A young man presents his unimpressed girlfriend with a colorful parakeet as a gift , but when the bird voices her boyfriend 's wedding proposal and he proffers a ring , she interrupts her meal preparation to show her appreciation . The bird , however , has more to reveal , repeating a conversation that apparently took place between the man and his secret lover during a recent tryst , a disclosure that quickly enrages the knife-wielding girlfriend . Pisanthanakun adopts a style amusing contrast to the rapidly escalating onscreen violence .  Among the animated shorts , which include the bizarre " Hydro-Electric Diffusion " and the trifling " Klutz , " Lee Hardcastle 's claymation " Toilet , " about a boy who 's afraid to use the commode lest it devour him , is the most successful , tapping into subconscious fears with a sly sense of humor . Brit filmmaker Wheatley 's " Unearthed , " featuring a crazed mob chasing a vampire through the nighttime countryside from the undead 's point of view , begs for a longer treatment to play out the conflict between the victim and the aggressors .  Before ultimately closing with the wildly irreverent horror spoof " Zetsumetsu " from Japanese director Yoshihiro Nishimura , Xavier Gens ' French film " XXL " is as impressive for its social commentary as the blood-soaked special effects . An obese woman makes her way home as she 's publicly ridiculed by passersby at almost every turn . Arriving at her apartment , she immediately begins binging , indiscriminately consuming the contents of her copiously stocked refrigerator to her abundant flesh , she begins slicing away the fat even as she struggles to maintain consciousness with increasing blood loss . Shooting in a realistic , unflinching style , Gens capably portrays the woman 's desperation to adapt to a cultural norm with a sometimes unrealistic fixation on body image .  More erratic than consistently frightful , The ABCs of Death might have benefited from firmer curatorial guidance , but at least it 's laid the groundwork for developing a number of potentially effective feature-length films .