Cadish abandons bid to become federal judge
http://lasvegassun.com/news/2013/mar/08/cadish-abandons-bid-become-federal-judge/

after more than a year of an ongoing standoff over her nomination to the federal bench in nevada , elissa cadish withdrew her candidacy friday morning .  " it is with regret that i write to inform you that i have requested that president obama withdraw my nomination to this position , " cadish wrote in a letter to sen. harry reid , who had championed her candidacy but failed to pull nevada sen. dean heller on board .  heller had objected to an opinion cadish wrote about the individual right to bear arms under the second amendment , several weeks before the supreme court settled the proper interpretation of its clauses in district of columbia vs . heller in 2008 . in response to inquiries , cadish said she would uphold the supreme court 's interpretation as a federal judge .  since president barack obama nominated cadish in february 2012 , the number of vacancies has grown , such that three of nevada 's seven seats on the federal bench are open .  cadish cited a concern about that situation in her the ability of nevadans to get speedy justice , particularly in civil cases . "  the sun wrote about the protracted judicial crisis in the state last month , just after cadish passed her one-year anniversary of being nominated without having had a hearing in the senate judiciary committee .  that process was held up because heller , citing his concern over cadish 's previous second amendment position , would not sign the requisite " blue slip " needed to move cadish 's nomination forward through the senate process .  heller said in a statement he supported cadish 's decision to withdraw .  " this has been an unfortunate situation from the very beginning , and i wish judge cadish well in her future endeavors , " heller said . " i look forward to working with senator reid so that we can avoid similar situations and move swiftly to confirm future nominees . "  in a statement , reid spoke of his continued admiration for cadish 's jurisprudential record , and expressed his frustration that the circumstances surrounding her nomination had reached such an impasse " reid said . " however , i agree with judge cadish that with three vacancies on our district court , nevada is in an urgent situation and continuing this impasse is not beneficial to our citizens who warrant a speedy judicial process . "  reid added that he hoped he and heller could move together to confirm other qualified nominees in the future .  nevada currently has two other nominees pending before the senate : andrew patrick gordon , who is expected to receive a confirmation vote soon , and jennifer a. dorsey.