Love of Chicago history fuels Paul Durica
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-03-08/entertainment/chi-kogan-paul-durica-20130308_1_first-ward-ball-hobo-ben-reitman

this was a few summers ago at the annual bughouse square debates , held by the newberry library in the small washington square park across the street and celebrating the bygone era when that park was regularly filled with soapboxes , and atop them an assortment of orators and lunatics .  of course , durica was n't actually reitman , the **27;85;toolong of emma goldman , the **28;114;toolong and frequent bughouse square presence . reitman died in 1942 . but durica was doing a fine job of bringing him back to life , in cape , floppy hat , scarflike windsor tie and dashing manner .  why , i wondered , would such a young man inhabit an all but forgotten character ?  " growing up in cleveland , i spent a lot of time with my grandparents , who lived on the same block , " he says . " they would regale me with stories of world war ii and the depression , and they had very detailed scrapbooks that made history come alive for me . "  durica earned a of michigan and came to chicago in 2005 as a doctoral candidate in the department of english language &amp; literature at the university of chicago .  in 2008 he founded pocket guide to hell tours ( pocketguidetohell.com ) , its name taken from a not-so-kind 19th century observation about chicago by visiting british labor leader john burns .  " as i was doing research for my dissertation ( about tramps , hobos and transients in american literature ) , i kept coming upon all of this good material that did n't fit into my academic work , " he says . " i wanted to share what i was learning with the broader public . "  his tours quickly morphed into more elaborate historical events . among them have been re-enactments of the 1915 " parade of unemployment " and the 1886 haymarket riot ; a " ben hecht 's house party , " celebrating the work of the famous **25;144;toolong ; and a re-creation of the final episode of the early 1950s television program " studs ' place . "  his latest production is a bold by the corrupt bosses ( i.e. aldermen ) of the 1st ward , " bathhouse " john coughlin and michael " hinky dink " kenna . it takes place march 17 at the hideout , 1354 w. wabansia ave. , starting at 8 p.m. , and admission is $10 , with all proceeds going to the 20-some performers .  i have more than a passing acquaintance with these fellows . my father , herman , and his collaborator , lloyd wendt , wrote the definitive story of the lives and misdeeds of this duo in 1943 's " lords of the levee . "  " i use that book all the time , " says durica . " it has great material about many things . "  coughlin and kenna conceived the first ward ball as a way of further stuffing their pockets , already bulging with graft , through imposed ticket and liquor sales . the first ball was held in 1896 , and by 1908 it attracted 20,000 drunken , yelling , brawling revelers to the coliseum on south wabash avenue . the guests slopped up it was very messy .  " i am a bit too tall , but i will try to be suitably taciturn , " he says .  for a guy who has been dead since 1946 , kenna is getting a lot of attention . his name surfaced in recent mark brown sun-times columns about efforts to close the ewing annex hotel on south clark street , once owned by kenna . and friday , the chicago history museum put on display a " solid gold , diamond-studded alderman 's star " that belonged to kenna .  but , of course , durica knows all that .  in 2011-12 , durica was a member of the newberry 's first class of graduate scholars-in-residence . daniel greene , the library 's vice president of research and academic programs , says , " what really wowed me as i learned more about paul 's work is his deep commitment to chicago history and to communicating history to contemporary audiences in fun and engaging ways . "  that kind of says it all . but there is more .  of the recently released " chicago by day and night : the pleasure seeker 's guide to the paris of america . " first published in 1893 , the book was intended for the hordes of tourists pouring into that year 's columbian exposition . the original text is great fun on its own , but durica and savage enrich the reading experience with a fine introduction and thoughtful , informative notes about such vanished places as the eden musee and palmer castle and the meaning of " dude town . "  when he presents his dissertation and gets his degree in june , durica hopes to pursue a teaching and writing career , with the city 's history as its foundation and engine .  but april 14 , he and his pals will be dipping into the more recent past and bringing back to life " bozo 's circus " at the hideout . there will be a grand prize game and such beloved characters as cooky , wizzo and you know who.