Mass Extinction Of Lizards In The Near Future As A Result Of ...
http://planetsave.com/2013/03/08/mass-extinction-of-lizards-in-the-near-future-as-a-result-of-climate-change-research-suggests/

A mass extinction of lizard species is a real possibility in coming decades as a result of climate change , new research from the University of Lincoln has found . Certain lizard species have taken a one-directional evolutionary path that involves them giving live birth rather than laying eggs , this has allowed lizards to live further north than possible if they were laying eggs . But this evolutionary path is apparently ireeversible , once a lizard species has developed it , they lose the ability to go back to laying eggs , which would be necessary for them in a wamer climate . The speed at which climate change is occurring largely precludes many species from simply changing where they live , it 's possibly for some species , but many will very likely go extinct as a result of not being able to extend their range to more appropriate climates . The researchers predict that dozens of lizard species may become extinct within only the next 50 years .  It 's been observed all over the globe that lizards with lizards with viviparous reproduction such as in skinks ) are doing poorly with regards to changing weather patterns . And the new research shows that is likely their viviparous reproduction , an adaption that has been key to their success in the past , that is limiting their ability to adapt .  " Researchers , including academics from the University of Exeter , investigated the hypothesis that historical invasions of cold climates by Liolaemus lizards -- one of the most diverse groups of vertebrates on earth -- have only been possible due to their evolution to viviparity ( live birth ) from oviparity ( laying eggs ) . Remarkably , once these species evolve viviparity , the process is mostly irreversible and they remain restricted to such cold climates . "  " By analysing this evolutionary transition in the lizards ' reproductive modes and projecting the future impact of climate change , the scientists discovered that increasing temperatures in the species ' historically cold habitats would result in their areas of distribution being significantly reduced . As a consequence , if global warming continues at the same rate , viviparous lizards are facing author , Dr. Daniel Pincheira-Donoso said : " Lizards ' reproduction is largely linked to climatic temperatures and viviparous species are usually found in cold environments . When reptiles initially moved to colder areas they needed to evolve emergency measures to succeed in these harsh places , and we believe viviparity is one of these key measures . However , this transition is mostly one-directional and unlikely to be reversed . Rapid changes in the environment 's temperature would demand rapid re-adaptations to secure the species ' survival . Through the research we found that over the next 50 years nearly half of the area where these species occur may disappear , causing multiple extinctions due to climate change . "  The general conclusion of the research is that " although viviparity allowed lizards in the past to invade and adapt to live in cold environments , and was therefore a key trait for evolutionary success , it will now ultimately lead to multiple events of extinction . "  Dr Pincheira-Donoso said : " These lizards are one of the most diverse groups of animals , and are able reduction in cold environments will reduce their areas of existence , which means that their successful evolutionary history may turn into a double-edged sword of adaptation . Their extinctions would be an atrocious loss to biodiversity . "  Dr Dave Hodgson , from the University of Exeter , said : " Climate change must not be underestimated as a threat to modern patterns of biodiversity . Our work shows that lizard species which birth live young instead of laying eggs are restricted to cold climates in South America : high in the Andes or towards the South Pole . As the climate warms , we predict that these special lizard species will be forced to move upwards and towards the pole , with an increased risk of extinction . "  The new research was just published in the journal Global Ecology and Biogeography .  About the Author  James Ayre ' s background is predominantly in geopolitics and history , but he has an obsessive interest in pretty much everything . After an early life spent in the Imperial Free City of Dortmund , James followed the river Astnide . And where he also briefly considered entering the coal mining business . He currently writes for a living , on a broad variety of subjects , ranging from science , to politics , to military history , to renewable energy . You can follow his work on Google+ .  Search the IM Network  The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only . Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by , and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media , Inc. , its owners , sponsors , affiliates , or subsidiaries .  Planetsave is part of the Important Media network of blogs working to make the world a better , greener place .