Latest round of layoffs at T-Mobile draws static
http://www.seattletimes.com/business/latest-round-of-layoffs-at-t-mobile-draws-static/

Latest round of layoffs at T-Mobile draws static  Originally published March 28 , 2013 at 8:17 pm Updated March 29 , 2013 at 6:15 am  T-Mobile USA ended its silence around layoffs at its Bellevue headquarters on Thursday , as hundreds of employees lost their jobs .  Between 200 and 300 employees in the company 's operations group were laid off , ranging from administrative assistants to senior vice presidents . That 's in addition to a layoff of 100 employees in the marketing department earlier this month .  While the cuts were not unexpected , employees said they received little communication from the company about the situation , with some taking issue with how the layoffs were carried out .  In a prepared statement , T-Mobile noted that in New York on Tuesday it announced a new business strategy aimed at reducing costs and complexity for consumers .  " As a result , we are making some operational changes to better align our business with our new strategy and position T-Mobile for growth , " the statement said . " overall size of the business , and while we do n't take these actions lightly , these adjustments to how we invest in the business will enable us to better focus our resources as we implement this strategy . "  T-Mobile is the nation 's fourth-largest wireless carrier and the largest wireless company still based in the Seattle area , an area that spawned the modern wireless industry in the 1980s when McCaw Cellular established a national network .  Last year , T-Mobile had about 4,800 employees at its Bellevue headquarters and 36,000 nationally .  The layoffs come as T-Mobile is preparing to go public after it merges with Dallas-based MetroPCS in a deal that shareholders are voting on April 12 .  " They definitely are whittling down to the leanest organization they can survive with , " said Michele Clark , a seven-year veteran of the company , who was working as an executive assistant in the operations group when she was laid off Thursday .  Another affected employee said people had been anticipating the cuts in part because the human-resources group had reserved conference the list when she received an electronic calendar invitation to meet with a supervisor . The invitation came after the employee and others on the team worked over the weekend to prepare for the new service plans launched Tuesday .  " You have a half an hour to do whatever you need to do then give your badge and leave , " the employee said . " I 've never dealt with anything so unprofessional . "  Remaining employees are seeing other cost-cutting moves , from the loss of free beverages to the mysterious removal of office clocks . A person with knowledge of the situation said the clocks were removed because the T-Mobile buildings ' centralized clock system was broken and the firm that built and serviced the system is out of business .  Layoffs and uncertainty have prompted a number of T-Mobile employees to pursue jobs at AT&amp;T , which has had a large presence in the area since it acquired McCaw in 1994 . In Redmond , AT&amp;T manages operations in the Western U.S. and performs engineering and testing . It has 4,592 employees in folks making inquiries here for some of our openings , " said Fred Devereux , president of AT&amp;T 's West region . " We encourage it . "  T-Mobile has n't been saying much internally about rumors over the past couple of weeks that layoffs were imminent , according to the employee who was laid off this morning :  " The only communication that we got about this was rumors , " the employee said .  Meanwhile , the employee is fuming over handling of the layoffs and how it contrasts with the value and mission statements posted around headquarters in Factoria .  " l look at the values that are printed on every poster on every wall -- ' go big , stay scrappy , ' ' integrity and respect guide our decisions , ' ' best place to perform and grow ' -- I just want to go around the building with a Sharpie and go ' this one does n't apply , this one does n't apply , " the employee said .  Brier Dudley : 206-515-5687 or bdudley@seattletimes.com .  Brier Dudley Brier Dudley joined the editorial board after 14 years covering Microsoft and the technology industry , including nine years writing a technology column on the business page . A third-generation Seattleite , he received a bachelor 's degree in English from Whitman College and studied film production in Italy before starting a career in newspapers . He has won numerous journalism awards and several oyster-eating competitions .