The Good Listener: The Power Of Pulling The Plug
http://www.npr.org/sections/allsongs/2013/03/28/175507606/we-get-mail-the-power-of-pulling-the-plug

the good listener : the power of pulling the plug  bon iver 's justin vernon in 2009 , after the release of his mostly acoustic debut album , but before the group 's second album , which includes the ' 80s-inspired saxophone jam " beth/rest . " ( yes , we noticed that his guitar is plugged in . ) shawn brackbill/corbis hide caption  toggle caption shawn brackbill/corbis  bon iver 's justin vernon in 2009 , after the release of his mostly acoustic debut album , but before the group 's second album , which includes the ' 80s-inspired saxophone jam " beth/rest . " ( yes , we noticed that his guitar is plugged in . )  shawn brackbill/corbis  we get a lot of mail at npr music , and amid the penzey 's spice catalogs we will never open is a slew of smart questions about how music fits into our lives -- and , this week , why " unplugged " versions of songs are so often preferable to their more fussed-over studio counterparts .  phil kingston writes re-released acoustic version of the steve mcqueen album , and it sounds better than the original . which prompts the question : why do unplugged recordings work ? did the first production choices not get it right ? why does stripping down a song make it feel more authentic , deeper , etc. ? "  for starters , you use an important word in your question : " authentic . " as music listeners , we 've all got a few cynical synapses that fire when we sense we 're being tricked -- think , especially recently , of the goosing of vocals via auto-tune . no matter how much we know about the process by which a record was made , it 's easy to shrug off a song 's sound when we can hear the sweeteners and the heavy hands of studio frankensteins well-versed in turning marginal talents into slick superstars .  when adele strolled in to the npr music offices a few years ago to perform a three-song tiny desk concert on the eve of 21 's release , her band did n't exactly play " her voice rang out without amplification . no filters , no microphone , no autotune , no way to mistake her for anything but the powerhouse captured on her records . every inflection , every emotion rang out without assistance ; everyone i talked to afterward was like , " no auto-tune there ! "  credit : npr  truly " unplugged , " unamplified performances serve the same purpose . they strip away what we see as smoke and mirrors to reveal a lot of essences -- the essence of a voice , the essence of a melody , the essence of a song 's sturdiness and versatility -- while also applying a veneer of timelessness .  production techniques come and go , from the electric pianos and saxophones of so much ' 80s music to the overtly employed sweeteners that have turned up in a lot of pop music in the past decade . love those techniques or hate them , they tend to cement a song 's place in a very specific era of popular music -- which is why , when bon iver dressed its ' 80s signifiers , so many fans recoiled . our brains move on from outdated sounds in ways that make them seem jarring when we revisit records years and especially decades later .  youtube  when bands unplug -- particularly when everything is boiled down to a voice and a guitar -- those performances are rendered largely immune to obsolescence . johnny cash 's voice-and-guitar masterpiece american recordings followed a fallow period in which cash released a string of sterile studio recordings , but when that first rick rubin-produced album came out in 1994 , it could have come from virtually any era . cash 's weather-beaten voice obviously boomed out of a specific time in his life , and many of the songs were of recent vintage , but nothing else on american recordings was tethered to any era .  youtube  in music , as in many fields that lean on technology , today 's multidimensional state of the art is tomorrow 's tinny kitsch . by stripping down to the most elemental , time-tested building blocks -- a voice and a few strings , or maybe and modern . after all , by its very definition , timelessness includes today .  got a music-related question you want answered ? leave it in the comments , drop us an email at allsongs@npr.org or tweet @allsongs .  all songs considered is home to the best new music and a community of fans always ready to share their opinions on the current music scene . you can contact hosts bob boilen and robin hilton ( and the team ) directly via our contact form . to submit your music , just email us a link to your favorite original song . ( please do not attach mp3s to emails ) .