Why did 28000 rivers in China suddenly disappear?
http://www.theverge.com/2013/4/3/4175514/china-rivers-disappear-from-the-map-water-supply-crisis

why did 28,000 rivers in china suddenly disappear ?  for years , china claimed to hold an estimated 50,000 rivers within its borders . now , more than half of them have abruptly vanished .  last week , china 's ministry of water resources announced the results of a three-year survey of the country 's waterways , revealing startling declines in water supply . according to the census , there were 22,909 rivers in china as of 2011 , each covering an area of at least 100 square kilometers . that marks a decrease of about 28,000 from the government 's previous estimates , raising fears among environmentalists and putting beijing on the defensive .  china 's longest rivers , the yangtze and the yellow , have each seen decliningwater levels in recent years , but the government 's survey -- its most comprehensive to date -- may shed new light on the breadth and gravity of the country 's crisis .  according to the south china morning post , officials attributed the decline to global warming and outdated mapping techniques , saying 1950s . experts , meanwhile , say there are more direct factors at play -- namely , explosive economic development and poor environmental stewardship .  ma jun , director of the beijing-based institute of public and environmental affairs , acknowledges that updated mapping techniques could explain some discrepancies in river estimates , though he notes that the government 's findings corroborate those from independent studies .  " pollution is destroying the limited resources we have "  " our research has shown that in some areas , especially in north china , rivers are drying up or turning into seasonal rivers , " ma said in a phone interview with the verge . there are several explanations for this phenomenon , including deforestation and , to a less certain extent , climate change , though ma says the two primary catalysts are pollution and overpopulation .  together , they form a potentially disastrous combination . china 's mushrooming population has added extra strain to its limited water supply , while the country 's rampant industrialization has left many rivers contaminated .  the extent of china 's pollution when more than 12,000 dumped pig carcasses washed ashore in shanghai and jiaxing . agricultural and industrial waste has had a pronounced human impact , as well , contaminating water supplies in so-called " cancer villages " -- a moniker for areas with particularly high cancer rates .  dead pigs and cancer villages  these incidents have drawn greater attention to china 's water crisis , while reviving concerns over the environmental costs of unfettered economic development . chinese lawmakers , however , have been grappling with these issues for decades .  china 's modern water management system dates back to the 1960s , when a series of devastating floods forced mao zedong to commission an array of dams , reservoirs , and spillways . mao 's infrastructure helped prevent floods , but it also created ecological imbalances by blocking rivers that once flowed into the north china plain . as a result , lakes and rivers in the region began drying up , and farmers began depleting well supplies .  population growth has only compounded china 's supply issues . according to a 2006 study from the china 's water use has increased more than fivefold since 1949 , forcing the government to take even more drastic measures .  in 2008 , china unveiled the three gorges dam -- a massive hydropower project that the country heralded as a marvel of engineering . today , it 's the largest hydropower structure in the world , though it has had disastrous ecological and social effects , resulting in deadly landslides and the displacement of an estimated 1.4 million people .  the government openly acknowledged these pitfalls in 2011 , but it remains intent on building the south-north water transfer project -- an even grander undertaking that the new york times described as " china 's most ambitious attempt to subjugate nature . " when completed , the $62 billion initiative will divert water from china 's already drought-ravaged southern region to the northern yellow and hai rivers .  " an emergency relief effort "  ma describes the water transfer project as " an emergency relief effort , " citing the dire situation in china 's northeast region , though he does n't see it as out of water without this project , " he said , " but even the current volume of redirected water likely wo n't be enough to keep up with demand . "  instead , ma and others say china should focus on controlling demand and regulating pollution , rather than re-allocating its water supply .  xavier leflaive , head of the water team at the oecd 's environment directorate , says china should implement market-based reforms to encourage more responsible water usage , while phasing out fertilizer subsidies to mitigate agricultural runoff .  he acknowledges that china is n't the only country facing these issues ; global water demand is expected to increase 55 percent over the next three decades , and rapidly developing countries like india have faced similar crises . but beijing 's unique economic and social developments add an extra layer of urgency . " this global trend is exacerbated in china by the speed and scale of urbanization and economic development , and by a lack of strong monitoring , inspection and enforcement capabilities , " leflaive said in an email to the verge sound policies , laws and regulations . "  china has implemented tougher regulations on water usage and pollutants -- the so-called " three red lines " -- though it remains to be seen whether they can be enforced across an expansive , and fast-growing economy .  " punish offenders with no mercy and enforce the law with an iron fist "  the good news is that the chinese government seems willing to take a harder stance on environmental stewardship . in the past , beijing has scoffed at calls to control its greenhouse emissions , arguing that it should n't be punished for its own economic prosperity . but premier li keqiang has adopted a more environmentally conscious tone in recent weeks , vowing to be more transparent about his country 's ecological issues .  " we must take the steps in advance , " li said last month , " rather than hurry to handle these issues when they have caused a disturbance in society . "  the premier has also promised to enforce current regulations on pollution , as he explained at his debut show even greater resolve and take more vigorous efforts to clean up such pollution , " li said . " we need to face the situation and punish offenders with no mercy and enforce the law with an iron fist . "  forgot username ?  almost done ,  by becoming a registered user , you are also agreeing to our terms and confirming that you have read our privacy policy .  authenticating  great !  choose an available username to complete sign up .  in order to provide our users with a better overall experience , we ask for more information from facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience . we do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with facebook.