Author Website Tips: The Importance Of A Call To Action
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/04/03/author-website-tips-_n_3006306.html

author website tips : the importance of a call to action  writer 's relief has a subsidiary company , web design relief , in which we design websites for authors . so , in addition to the writing and targeting advice we 've offered in our articles , we 'll be sharing tips on web design , how to establish an online presence , how to best utilize social media , and more . to get the ball rolling , we 're starting with one of the most important features of an author website -- one you 'll need to quickly grow repeat visitors . keep reading to learn how to implement a strong call to action on your author website and build your author platform .  call to action : what it is and how to use it  a call to action is a clear statement , instructing your visitors what to do or how to reach a goal , whether it be trivial or important . with a strong call to action , you tell your visitors , " do this , as subtly as the wording of a menu option .  a subtle call to action would be to label your published works page , " read my published work , " instead of " published work . " the former is a call to action , and the latter is neutral information .  an overt call to action would be , " enter the contest here ! " and " join the mailing list to receive weekly tips , " which say openly to the visitor , " you should do this . " by writing , " you can enter the contest here , " you imply , " if you feel like it , " which wo n't give your visitors the same psychological push to follow through .  3 ways writers can use calls to action  as a writer , you need a call to action on your author website to attract repeat visitors and promote your online platform . and while you might not have any books for sale , and you might not have a mailing list yet , the following calls on his or her website .  note : you do n't want to overwhelm visitors with too many calls to action right on the homepage . based on your biggest priority , choose one of the following items for your homepage 's main call to action .  social media pages . it 's important for any writer to promote himself or herself on social media . and while different social media pages lend themselves to writing more than others ( twitter and facebook are very text-based while pinterest is better suited for images ) , you should invest ample time in building your presence on multiple social media forms . if that 's your strength , you should direct your visitors to your well-followed twitter feed or your haiku-a-day facebook fan page .  mailing lists . one of the best ways to build your repeat audience is to create a mailing list . a first-time visitor is more likely to come back to your website or social media pages if he/she is actively receiving new e-mails in his/her inbox from you , directing him/her to " click here to action to sign up for your mailing list , first-time visitors probably wo n't be inclined to fill out the sign-up form -- or , worse , they wo n't even realize that you have a mailing list because it was n't clearly stated on the most heavily trafficked pages of your website .  selling books or other products or services . if you 've self-published or traditionally published any books , chapbooks , e-books , etc. , or offer services like ghostwriting or proofreading , it 's important to funnel your visitors toward those items you have for sale . if they 're not interested in purchasing anything , they can still browse the rest of the site , and you 've eliminated the chance that a happy visitor clicked out of the site before realizing that he/she could purchase your written work or services .  by using calls to action in a purposeful way , you 'll greatly increase your repeat visitors and active participators . and remember : you do n't need to be heavy-handed with your calls to action . there are very subtle action . by giving one direct instruction instead of multiple options or wishy-washy offers , you can better build your online platform .