Ask Ars: Does Facebook auto-delete content after a certain period of ...
http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2013/01/ask-ars-does-facebook-auto-delete-content-after-a-certain-period-of-time/

ask ars : does facebook auto-delete content after a certain period of time ?  ars reader wants to create a page for an ancestor , but worries about losing content .  in 1998 , ask ars was an early feature of the newly launched ars technica . now , as then , it 's all about your questions and our community 's answers . we occasionally dig into our question bag , provide our own take , then tap the wisdom of our readers . to submit your own question , see our helpful tips page .  i ask , because i want to use facebook to create a historical timeline about an ancestor in my family so people can learn more about their heritage . i have googled my question several times and all answers are confusing and mixed : some say everything stays on a fb page until you clean it off and others say facebook deletes status updates and photos monthly .  this is an interesting way to use facebook -- to create a page for someone who is not existed . ( typically , the question is the other way around : what to do with someone 's existing facebook account after they pass away ? ) and given the level of confusion constantly floating around about facebook 's data retention policies , it 's no surprise that it might be hard to pinpoint exactly when ( if ever ) information gets deleted from the social network .  we store data for as long as it is necessary to provide products and services to you and others , including those described above . typically , information associated with your account will be kept until your account is deleted . for certain categories of data , we may also tell you about specific data retention practices .  just to be sure , we reached out to facebook to confirm this is indeed the policy for the above use case . the company confirmed that as long as you have not deleted the content yourself -- or in the case of a message between two people , both people have not deleted it -- the content should stay online indefinitely to keep in mind about this policy . if you ever do want to delete the content , you should know that it 's not likely to disappear instantly . as you may remember , we followed a thread for several years over how fast photos are deleted from facebook 's servers once you delete them from the site ; as of late 2012 , we verified that photos indeed appear to be removed within 30 days of deletion ( our tests showed they were actually removed much faster ) .  it 's not just about photos , though . as outlined in the same data use policy referenced above , there are major differences between deactivating an account versus deleting an account , should you choose to eventually remove the account you created for your ancestor . many facebook users mistakenly think that deactivating their accounts equals deletion , but that is not so :  deactivating your account puts your account on hold . other users will no longer see your timeline , but we do not delete any of your information . deactivating an account is the because you might want to reactivate your account at some point in the future . you can deactivate your account on your account settings page .  your friends will still see you listed in their list of friends while your account is deactivated .  so when you deactivate your ancestor 's account , it 's not really going anywhere . the data is still there , lurking somewhere on facebook 's servers , even if the " friends " of that account can no longer see it .  deletion , however , is another matter :  when you delete an account , it is permanently deleted from facebook . it typically takes about one month to delete an account , but some information may remain in backup copies and logs for up to 90 days . you should only delete your account if you are sure you never want to reactivate it .  ...  certain information is needed to provide you with services , so we only delete this information after you delete your account . some of the things you do on facebook are group or sending someone a message ( where your friend may still have a message you sent , even after you delete your account ) . that information remains after you delete your account .  i often see facebook users confusing these two things . they usually become alarmed when they 've deactivated an account , only to have all the old information show up again when they go to " register " a new account . but if you actually go through with a real deletion , the information should n't be there past 90 days -- and hopefully it will be gone sooner .