The Pros and Cons of Being a Jobless Single Dad for 711 Days
http://www.pbs.org/newshour/making-sense/the-pros-and-cons-of-being-a-j/

the pros and cons of being a jobless single dad for 711 days  55276the pros and cons of life as a jobless single dadmore than 4 million americans remain out of work for more than six months now . and for those 55 and older , it takes at least a year on average to find work , longer than any other age group . fifty-five-year-old software developer geoffrey weglarz , who has been unemployed for two years , explains why being a jobless single dad can be a blessing , but a costly one.2013-05-03 **37;0;toolong  more than 4 million americans remain out of work for more than six months now . and for those 55 and older , it takes at least a year on average to find work , longer than any other age group . fifty-five-year-old software developer geoffrey weglarz , who has been unemployed for two years , explains why being a jobless single dad can be a blessing , but a costly one .  there is no doubt : the economy is " recovering . " you see it long-term trendline : 2.5 percent . you see it in the housing market , characterized as " surging , " with prices up in every major city -- on average , 9 percent higher than a year ago . you see it in the stock market , as high as its ever been .  with the release friday of the job numbers for april , you see it in the unemployment numbers . for a change , both monthly surveys -- of employers and of households -- agree : the economy added at least 165,000 jobs last month and 114,000 more jobs than had previously been reported for february and march .  but then how is it , you may ask , that the official unemployment rate , known as " u-3 ? in government parlance , barely budged and remains at 7.5 percent ?  how is it that our own far more inclusive measure of unemployment and underemployment , the " u-7 , " is down a tick but still weighs in at a whopping 16 percent ?  u-7 includes everyone in the government 's u-3 looked for one in the past 4 weeks . it also adds everyone who said they wanted one , had n't looked in the past 4 weeks , but had in the past year . ( these people are included in the government 's most inclusive statistic , u-6 ) . but we also add people who had n't looked in the past year but still said they wanted a job and would take one . finally , we add people working part-time , but say they are looking for full-time work , like " consultants " i know , who may have worked only one hour in the week the government survey taker came calling , but are still tallied as officially " employed . "  here is my solman scale breakdown of the numbers for april :  how can it be that , were we to compare today 's number to unemployment as reckoned in the past ( by adding working age americans who would probably be unemployed , but are instead drawing disability -- more than 8 million , or in prison -- more than 2 ii highs ? ( see our newshour report on the undercounting of unemployment ) .  how can it be that , that in a " recovery , " and by the narrowest ( u-3 ) definition , 9 percent of latinos , 13.2 percent of afro-americans , and 24 percent of teenagers are unemployed , meaning they looked for work in the past week but did n't find even one hour 's worth ?  how can it be , finally , that 4.4 million americans continue to be out of work for 27 weeks or more and for those 55 or older , it takes a year , on average , to find a job ?  that 's the topic of our segment on pbs newshour on the friday evening broadcast as we introduce viewers to a range of capable , earnest and articulate older workers who simply have n't been able to find a job . one of them , 55-year-old software developer geoffrey weglarz , who has now taught himself video production , has an especially poignant story to tell .  we met weglarz at in bridgeport , conn . weglarz told us he 'd been unemployed for 711 days . how did he know the exact number ? turns out he keeps a spreadsheet tracking the 481 jobs he 's applied for in the last two years . in the top corner is a tally of the days since he lost his job in april 2011 .  weglarz spoke heartrendingly of the financial and emotional challenges of long-term unemployment , as you can see in the excerpt from our interview at the top of this post .  ( we contacted weglarz on thursday to follow up and see if he had since gained employment . his response : " still no job , but getting a little freelance video production work . " )  pbs newshour allows open commenting for all registered users , and encourages discussion amongst you , our audience . however , if a commenter violates our terms of use or abuses the commenting forum , their comment may go into moderation or be removed entirely . we reserve the right to remove posts that do not follow these of the post ; may not include profanity , personal attacks or hate speech ; may not promote a business or raise money ; may not be spam . anything you post should be your own work . the pbs newshour reserves the right to read on the air and/or publish on its website or in any medium now known or unknown the comments or emails that we receive . by submitting comments , you agree to the pbs terms of use and privacy policy , which include more details .