Fantasia Talks 'Side Effects of You' Album &amp; Confidence
http://www.billboard.com/articles/columns/the-juice/1560639/fantasia-talks-side-effects-of-you-album-confidence

fantasia talks ' side effects of you ' album &amp; confidence  as the " american idol " final four tuned up for another showdown recently , season-three winner fantasia found herself back in the spotlight as well . that 's because her fourth album , " side effects of you " ( 19 recordings/rca ) , debuted at no. 1 on billboard 's top r&amp;b/hip-hop albums chart and no. 2 on the billboard 200 .  the debut positions of fantasia 's latest album resemble the performance of 2010 's " back to me , " which has sold 490,000 copies , according to nielsen soundscan . adding in 2006 's " fantasia " and 2004 's " free yourself , " the grammy award winner accounts for 2.9 million albums sold and is the fifth-largest-selling " idol " contestant behind carrie underwood ( 14.2 million ) , kelly clarkson ( 12.3 million ) , chris daughtry ( 6.8 million ) and clay aiken ( 5.1 million ) . fantasia is also the biggest seller among " idol " r&amp;b acts .  so what triggered fantasia 's resonating performance of lead single " lose to win " during her april 18 return to the " idol " stage . currently no. 4 on the adult r&amp;b chart , the track 's resulting digital sales spike gave her an eighth top 10-a tally that includes 13-week no. 1 " truth is . " fantasia also counts four top 10s on hot r&amp;b/hip-hop songs , including the no. 1 " when i see you . "  fantasia 's vision also included working primarily with one producer-harmony samuels ( kelly rowland , chris brown ) -and penning a majority of the tracks with a team of writers ranging from andrea martin and emeli sand ? to missy elliott and courtney harrell . the title track was produced by naughty boy .  paired with samuels by rca executive vp/head of a&amp;r keith naftaly , fantasia says she knew by the second day in the studio there was a special connection . " i 'd been writing down a lot of thoughts and feelings during my time away , " she recalls . " so i wanted to be anything back . he picked up on that . it was n't just about producing an album to make money . he genuinely wanted to see me deliver and be able to perform in a different mind-set . "  guest features are limited to big k.r.i.t. on the engaging " supernatural love " and rowland and elliott on the colorful declaration " without me . " tagged as the second single , the latter recently went for adds at mainstream r&amp;b radio .  it 's the latest step in a marketing campaign designed to bring fantasia before a wider audience . in addition to " idol , " rca senior vp of marketing carolyn williams and vp of publicity theola borden point to appearances on the highly rated cable concert special " centric live : fantasia at the fillmore " ( april 20 ) , " good morning america " ( april 24 ) , bravo 's " watch what happens live ! " and cnn 's " showbiz tonight " ( both april 25 ) and " the view " ( april 29 ) as major components in  the next phase will target late-night tv , a tour and additional fashion spreads ( fantasia earlier appeared on the cover of upscale magazine ) , focusing on the singer 's more colorful and sophisticated imaging . " this fantasia wants to step out now , " the singer says with a laugh . " it took a while for me to get there -- i had insecurities . but i 'm more confident and comfortable with the woman i 've become . "  she will be drawing on that hard-won confidence when she hits the stage with an unlikely partner in june : andrea bocelli . during five select dates on ? bocelli 's tour , including june 8 at the hollywood bowl , fantasia will duet with the classical tenor on some of his greatest hits in italian and english .  " it 's great positioning and shows her depth as an artist , " rca 's williams says . " you ca n't put fantasia in a box . she 's a trained vocalist who can push the envelope into many different types of music @ @