Rape A 'Significant And Disturbing' Feature Of Syrian War
http://www.npr.org/2013/01/22/170007521/rape-a-significant-and-disturbing-feature-of-syrian-war

syrian women far outnumber men in the refugee camps in neighboring jordan . a new report by the international rescue committee says that gender-based violence in syria is one of the main causes of women fleeing the country , and that reports of rape and violence against women are on the rise . in a clinic catering to syrian refugees on the jordanian border , a psychologist says she is shocked by some of the stories she hears of public rapes and torture .  melissa block , host :  you are listening to all things considered from npr news .  a recent report by the international rescue committee sheds light on an alarming trend in syria , a surge in sexual violence . rape is a significant and disturbing feature of the syrian war , according to the irc report , which was based on interviews with hundreds of syrian refugees in jordan and lebanon . the report includes the stories of a 9-year-old girl who was raped and of a father who shot his own daughter to prevent her from being , in in jordan that provides counseling for some of these victims . she sent this report .  sheera frenkel , byline : in a small apartment on a nondescript street in the jordanian city of ramthe , syrian refugees come to get help . the clinic is run by the international rescue committee , and it 's a place where syrian refugees share their stories of horror and war .  frenkel : the women in the clinic asked that their identities be kept private to protect themselves and their families . saher , a 42-year-old mother , comes each week with her 18-month-old baby . she says she fled syria when soldiers ransacked her home and put a gun to her infant daughter 's head .  saher : ( through translator ) i told them there was no man in the house , so please do n't come in . they pushed me down . i begged for mercy . they started to say bad words , and i began to cry .  frenkel : saher does n't say what happened next . instead , she speaks about saher : ( through translator ) yes , there was rape , and they would even kidnap a woman if her relative is a defector . they would take his sister or his wife . in daraa , that really happened .  frenkel : nawall mohammed is the psychologist who leads the weekly sessions with saher and others . previously , she worked with iraqi and palestinian refugees , but she says she 's never heard stories that affected her as much as those from the syrian refugees .  nawall mohammed : i remember a client . he is a man , syrian man . he said the army , they collect the women , just the women and girls , and they took off their clothes and put them in big cars in the streets in front of their relatives and husbands and brothers naked . so it is like their weapon .  frenkel : nawall says that the women find it easier to share their stories when they can attribute them to other people . some of the stories are about rape by soldiers or security that their families have suddenly become refugees . melanie megevand oversees the programs for female refugees for the international rescue committee . in the irc 's report , the new york-based ngo revealed that women gave sexual violence as a primary reason for fleeing syria .  melanie megevand : given the cultural taboos , particularly in the context of the middle east , it 's been extremely telling to hear so many stories of sexual violence occurring and having that being explained by both men and women , including children .  frenkel : saher says that she never thought she would become a refugee , and it scares her to think about what 's happening back in her hometown of daraa . she says she 's heard from neighbors that her home has been destroyed . she 's thankful that she got her family out in time .  saher : ( through translator ) we only have our own dignity . a house is a minor thing , but our dignity is a basic thing . that 's the reason that pushed us to come to jordan . daraa and rebuild one day . for now , she just wants to focus on getting better . for npr news , i 'm sheera frenkel .  npr transcripts are created on a rush deadline by a contractor for npr , and accuracy and availability may vary . this text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future . please be aware that the authoritative record of npr 's programming is the audio .