Indian tiger reserve on path to revival with discovery of three ...
http://wwf.panda.org/?209588/Indian-tiger-reserve-on-path-to-revival-with-discovery-of-three-additional-species

indian tiger reserve on path to revival with discovery of three additional species  posted on 08 august 2013  also called honey dog for its fondness for sweet food , this mammal has a brown coat that darkens toward and on the tail , and its throat and chin are yellowish orange . it is listed in the cites iii appendix in india .  these are in addition to a hoary-bellied squirrel ( callosciurus pygerythrus ) previously photographed by wti .  " over the last two months , we have discovered three new species only with the help of these camera traps . none of these four , including the squirrel , were mentioned in the latest faunal records published by the zoological survey of india ( zsi ) , which mentions 53 species of mammals , " said santosh tiwari , field director of the tiger reserve .  " these discoveries only go on to prove that the once neglected reserve is on a revival path with the joint activities by the forest department and ngos in association with the communities who samir kumar sinha , wti 's regional head for bihar .  the camera trapping by wwf-india was carried out as a part of a monitoring exercise in collaboration with department of environment &amp; forests , bihar and national tiger conservation authority ( ntca ) , government of india .  wwf-india has been working in partnership with the bihar forest department to monitor valmiki 's tigers and with partners in nepal is implementing a transboundary approach to conservation .  " we are excited by these discoveries , valmiki has excellent potential for tiger recovery and given its contiguity with the chitwan national park in nepal will be a critical site for undertaking transboundary approaches for tiger conservation . wwf will strengthen its partnership with the management of valmiki and intensify conservation efforts , " said dr. dipankar ghose , director , species and landscapes , wwf-india .  the tiger monitoring work in valmiki is part of the larger tiger survey being undertaken in india and nepal across the entire terai arc landscape for the first time , wwf-india is supporting the government in their efforts to develop valmiki forest department since 2003 , wti 's valmiki conservation project helped establish the presence of a viable population of tigers , bringing focus back to this formerly neglected tiger reserve in the mid-2000s .  the project carries out a comprehensive approach to conservation , including studies on tigers and habitat recovery activities ; it is supported by us fish and wildlife service ( usfws ) , nature and biodiversity conservation union ( nabu ) and sir dorabji tata trust ( sdtt ) .  the project also works with the communities involving them in conservation and reducing their dependence on forest resources , particularly within the villages in the done valley that forms an incursion into the core of the tiger reserve .  these species have been previously recorded in the neighbouring chitwan national park in nepal , which forms the northern boundary of valmiki reserve . the zsi has recorded 10 species of amphibians , 27 species of reptiles and 75 species of insects in valmiki , including the gaur ( bos gaurus ) and the indian wild dog ( cuon alpinus ) , which are not found also called honey dog for its fondness for sweet food , this mammal has a brown coat that darkens toward and on the tail , and its throat and chin are yellowish orange . it is listed in the cites iii appendix in india .