Kentucky Education Officials OK New Science Standards Despite ...
http://wfpl.org/kentucky-education-officials-ok-new-science-standards-despite-criticism-evolution/

share this :  kentucky education officials ' consideration of next generation science standards gained national attention last month when the huffington post and others picked up on criticism of evolution and climate change during a public hearings on the matter .  here 's the latest :  the kentucky board of education on thursday rejected that public opposition and approved a final report from the education department on the new science standards .  the state received thousands of responses during the public comment period . a petition with 3,700 names was signed in support of the standards , and kentucky education officials include several scientific organizations that have shown their support . at the same time , the state received over one-hundred identical emails that opposed inclusion of evolution and characterized it as a theory and not a fact .  a statement of consideration is what the board approved on thursday . it 's the formal document that includes recommendations for any changes to the standards based off public comments .  the regulation now heads to kentucky 's administrative regulation review committee new standards would go into effect during the 2014-2015 school year .  updating science standards is part of kentucky 's education reforms .  the next generation science standards were developed by 26 states , including kentucky . state officials say the standards are based on new scientific research and include what students are expected to learn , while providing the blueprint for success in post-secondary education .  the standards have critics outside of kentucky , and received a " c " grade overall from the fordham institute -- a conservative education think tank organization -- for its lack of rigor , but many educators reject this claim . fordham also says the new standards are inferior to kentucky 's current standards . ( click here to see its final report )  below , the statement of consideration responds to public comments .  evolution  citing support from dozens of scientific organizations , kentucky education department officials rejected comments opposing evolution in the new standards , saying it 's " the fundamental , unifying theory that underlies all the life sciences . " it goes on to the scientific community regarding the legitimacy of evolution as a scientific idea . "  kde also notes that the concept of evolution already exists in the current version of the kentucky core academic standards for science and has been assessed since 2006 .  creationism and intelligent design  kde rejected comments related to including intelligent design in the new standards because they lack scientific support . " the overwhelming majority of scientists do not consider creationism intelligent design , " the report says .  officials also point to court decisions that have repeatedly declared teaching creationism and intelligent design as unconstitutional . the new standards no not attempt to explain the origin of life , while creationism and intelligent design do , the report reads .  climate change  kde officials say the standards do not advocate any particular public response , policy change , or civic action related to climate change , but it does ask that schools include climate research and studies within the standards framework .  the standards , " ask students to consider the evidence for the factors influencing climate change . to tailor their curricula to fit their needs .