Louis CK on New York, Money, and the Long-Awaited Season 4 of ...
http://entertainment.time.com/2013/10/04/louis-ck-on-new-york-money-and-the-long-awaited-season-4-of-louie/

it 's been a long wait , louie fans . it 'll be a longer wait yet . but new episodes are finally in the pipeline , ready to come climbing out of that subway station and onto your tv next spring .  last night as part of the paley center 's made in ny television festival , i moderated a panel with louis ck and his louie co-executive producer blair breard , who said that louie season 4 went into production this week , with the goal of returning to fx next may .  the **30;0;toolong said he took a long-than-usual break between seasons to regain some semblance of a life , as well as to avoid the chaotic production schedule of the show 's first three seasons , when he would be promoting the show 's premiere while still writing and shooting new episodes . for the first time , he 's written a full season of scripts before shooting begins , allowing for a little more polish and ambition in the season .  what kind of ambition , louis ck would will include more stories that span more than one episode as well as shorter ones . there will be more straight-ahead comedic episodes , as well as some that " i have a stomach ache about . "  ( one multi-part story for next year , he says , was originally an idea for a movie . interestingly , he added , that was also the genesis of the season 1 " god " episode -- about louie 's past as a religiously-guilty kid -- except that the movie involved statues of the crucified jesus coming to life and strangling people . )  before the panel , the paley center screened two episodes , which exemplified the show 's range of tones : " daddy 's girlfriend , part 2 , " a sweet , disturbing first-date story ( guest-starring parker posey ) , which includes some glorious scenes of the city at night ; and " barney/never , " which climaxes in a shot of a kid soaking in a diarrhea-polluted bathtub . ( first question , of course , had to be how they simulated the fouled 's girlfriend , " louis ck said , is an example of how new york city permeates the show , both visually and in character . because louie shoot almost entirely on location -- a move that cuts costs while making it look more expensive -- it can capture both the city 's sleaze and glorious scenes like a montage of posey and louis ck gorging on cured fish at russ and daughters . and the posey character , he said , reflected some dates he had in his early days in the city . the thing about new york : " there are a lot of crazy people who do n't look crazy . "  a few other topics that came up , in our interview and in questions from the audience :  * last year 's finale , " new year 's eve , " was shot partly in beijing ( though breard first suggested they shoot in chinatown ) . one problem , once they arrived in china , was how much of it in fact " looks like columbus , ohio . " on the the street in china compared with nyc , " because people do n't have rights . "  * an audience member asked about a scene in season 3 , in which a character played by melissa leo roughly forces louie to reciprocate oral sex . louis ck said he did n't consider the scene rape -- " she did what she had to do , " he said drily -- though he acknowledged an earlier episode in which his character appears to be molested under anesthesia by a dentist . asked if fx had issues with the content , he joked , " i said , either i get raped , or i 'm not doing the show . "  * toughest place to shoot in new york city ? what 's the toughest place to do anything in new york city ? yep , the subway .  * could a big network make a show like louie ? no , he said , nor should they . when you 're making a show for millions of dollars an episode , " that money comes with a lot as advertisers who do n't want to be near offensive content . " our advertisers are , what , red stripe beer ? they do n't give a fuck what we 're doing ! "  and that 's as it should be , he said . louie , he said , is n't a show for millions of people . " this is for a few of us , " he said , gesturing to the small , sold-out auditorium , " to get together and enjoy a tub of diarrhea. "