The Best Breads Of All Time, In Order (PHOTOS)
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/04/best-bread_n_4038567.html

But just because we love it does n't mean that all breads are created equal -- while some we could eat by the loaf , others just do n't live up our expectations . To highlight which breads are worth buying and which you should probably stay away from , we 've ranked the top 20 breads in order -- according to our extremely subjective opinion . If ( and when ) you disagree with where we put your favorite bread , let us know your gripes in the comments .  ( To clarify , the requirements for eligibility were leavened breads that come in loaf form . And this is the opinion of one writer , not HuffPost Taste as an entity . )  20  Ezekiel  Flickr : motherAWESOME  This sprouted grain bread is made without the sugar present in most other breads , which warrants critiques of an " absolutely horrid " texture and taste reminiscent of " butt-wiped cardboard . "  19  White  Getty  Processed , bleached and bland .  18  Pullman Loaf remarkably rectangular this bread comes out .  17  Cinnamon Raisin  Getty  Love the cinnamon , hate the raisins .  16  Olive Bread  Getty  This one 's pretty straight-forward : if you like olives , you 'll like olive bread , and if you do n't you wo n't .  15  Wheat  Getty  Better than white bread , but still kind of a bore .  14  Potato Bread  Flickr : Nostepinne  Part wheat flour , part potatoes . All softer and tastier than regular bread .  13  Multigrain  Getty  This hearty loaf is packed full of seeds and grains -- great for your health , horrible for keeping your teeth seed-free .  12  Italian  Shutterstock  Classic , but not particularly exciting .  11  Brioche  Getty  This bread is sweet , rich and perfect for things like bread pudding and French Toast . We suspect it 's the large quantities of butter that go into making it .  10  French Baguette  Getty eating fresh French baguettes and butter .  9  Focaccia  Shutterstock  This flat Italian bread is just as great for sandwich breads as it is plain , dipped in balsamic vinegar and olive oil .  8  Challah  Getty  This Jewish bread is very similar to brioche , but made with oil instead of butter as well as more eggs .  7  Ciabatta  Getty  This flat Italian bread is a staple for making panini , so obviously we 're big fans .  6  Marble Rye  Flickr : trupastilla  This marble loaf is made by rolling light and dark ryes together .  5  Boule  Getty  Again , the French get it right when it comes to bread -- this round rustic roll is one of the best to make at home .  4  Rye Bread  Getty  Our sandwiches would be nowhere without this classic loaf .  3  Pumpernickel  Getty  This bread got an almost unanimous vote from the HuffPost Taste and Food teams .