The Case of the Keystone Cossacks
http://foreignpolicy.com/2013/11/21/the-case-of-the-keystone-cossacks/

who sent a bunch of hapless russian soldiers of fortune to go do battle in syria ?  by michael weissmichael weiss is the editor in chief of the interpreter , an online journal that translates and analyzes russian media . follow him on twitter : @michaeldweiss .  november 21 , 2013  in late october , amendments were made to article 208 of the russian criminal code outlawing the " organization of , or participation in , illegal armed units " in foreign countries . intended to stanch the rising flow of radical jihadists from the russian federation to syria , and purposefully written to encompass foreign military activities for which the participant need not receive payment , the amended law now carries a six-year prison sentence for anyone found guilty of violating it . according to sergei smirnov , the first deputy director of russia 's federal security service ( fsb ) , some 300 to 400 fighters , mainly from the north caucasus , are thought to have already joined with religious crusaders in trying to topple the regime of syrian president bashar , article 359 , which dates back to 1996 , outlaws the more conventionally defined activity of the noncitizen mercenary -- as in the soldier of fortune who works for pay . funnily enough , it 's that earlier statute that has already been broken by more than 200 russians who just returned from a lackluster military performance in syria . only they were fighting for damascus , not for al qaeda .  in late october , international media outlets reported that russian mercenaries appeared to have joined with syrian army regulars in a fight against rebels . after a battle in homs between regime troops and the islamic state of iraq and al-sham , one of the two main al qaeda groups in syria , the jihadi website kavkaz center -- known more for its crude propaganda than its empirically verifiable information -- claimed that among the 100 enemy slain were several russians . one of the dead was even named : aleksei malyuta , from the city of abinsk in krasnodar territory . kavkaz posted videos , including one reportedly showing a russian mercenary breaking a piece of well as documents allegedly showing that malyuta worked as a professional gun for hire for the moran security group , a moscow-based private military company , which had contracted a hong kong-registered entity called slavonic corps ltd. to dispatch armed personnel to syria . according to its website , moran " offers targeted approaches in the world 's current hot spots , such as the middle east , central asia and africa , which include the enlistment of local experts in these dynamic and highly sensitive environments . " as for slavonic corps , on its website it claims to operate " in strict correspondence to russian law " and " never takes part in events related to overthrow of governments , violating human rights of civilian population and in any other actions violating international law and conventions . " if one judges from some of the now-verified photographs that kavkaz center produced , these contracted " local experts " in syria may have included the thuggish pro-regime shabiha , whose white trucks with mounted machine guns have become symbols of atrocity .  the story idled for several days until executives of moran and slavonic corps . alexey badikov , a director of moran , whose signature appeared on malyuta 's personnel id , which was obtained by jihadists in syria , told fontanka reporterdenis korotkov that malyuta did indeed work for moran in 2012 and early 2013 and participated in seagoing operations to protect private merchant ships from piracy , though he did n't specify where . however , badikov said , slavonic corps had no relationship with moran , and moran had n't contracted any work in syria .  fontanka proved that both assertions were false . it authenticated the id documents published by the kavkaz center , proving that malyuta did indeed have a contract with slavonic corps and was in syria in october . but malyuta , the newspaper found , was actually still quite alive and now back in russia , celebrating his return with his brother , sergei , who was the acting head of the same security detail in syria , nine days after jihadists prematurely announced aleksei malyuta 's demise . sergei malyuta toldfontanka that slavonic corps contracted the russian mercenaries , the " guard and defense of economic facilities of the syrian republic . the point was to free the subdivisions of the syrian army from these duties , so that they could take part in the battle against the bandits . " sergei malyuta denied taking part in any clashes with jihadists or other rebels ; his brother 's documents , he said , were " simply stolen " out of an unattended backpack . as proof of life , aleksei malyuta sent fontanka a video , taken in russia , in which he was drinking and toasting to his good health . fontanka further verified that all the mercenaries had returned safely but prematurely owing to the " failure of the hosts to fulfill their financial obligations , which caused problems with the housing and feeding of the fighters from slavonic corps . " the contract , apparently , had been broken .  but the story did n't end there . in a follow-up article published on nov. 14 , fontanka revealed that russia 's domestic security service , the fsb , had arrested two high-ranking members of slavonic the criminal code 's old article 359 . moreover , since the spring of 2013 , fontana 's korotkov found , based on interviews with several ex-contractors , slavonic corps had been recruiting former soldiers with combat experience to guard " energy facilities " in exotic locales for the promise of $4,000 per month . recruits were interviewed over the phone before meeting directly with the president of moran , vyacheslav kalashnikov , a lieutenant colonel in the fsb reserves , " who introduced himself as a general " and explained what the overseas missions would entail . a second face-to-face interview followed at the baltic shooting center on alexander blok street in st. petersburg , where the appropriate forms would be completed and " passports ordered . " finally , recruits were invited to moscow , where they were told , in moran 's offices , that they 'd be subcontracted to syria with slavonic corps .  the men were called up just as soon as they arrived back in st. petersburg . " contracts with hong kong 's slavonic corps limited were literally signed on knees on the according to oleg krinitsyn , the head of rsb-group , russia 's largest private military company , whom fontanka interviewed , the slavonic corps team was a shambles from the start :  among those guys , photographed against a backdrop of syrian equipment , festooned with weapons , i noticed a few of our former employees who had been dismissed because of their poor moral character . i saw guys with criminal records amongst them . this once again confirms that the aim of the re cruiters was not to attract high-quality professionals , but just to plug a ' hole ' with cannon fodder , and fast . and the boys were sent on contracts that resembled contracts for suicide missions . right away , people signed a contract that included a will to bury their remains in their homeland or , if that proved impossible , in the nation where they died , and then be reburied in russia . dreadful .  moreover , krinitsyn told the newspaper , the contract these mercenaries signed apparently had been commissioned not by any ministry in damascus but by " " mark galeotti , a new york university professor who specializes in the russian security services , concluded , following the interpreter 's translation of the fontanka exclusives , that " it is difficult to sustain any notion that at the very least the russian government did not give this its blessing . "  as recounted by several of them to fontanka , the mercenaries were flown to beirut and then traveled by car to damascus , before being transferred to a military base in the coastal province of latakia . the russians say they were greeted as foreign heroes by regime loyalists and housed in the makeshift barracks at the former stables of a horse track , alongside syrian reservists . in october , according to one recruit , there were 267 slavonic corps mercenaries in syria , split into two companies , one of them made up entirely of cossacks , with the expectation that the total force would grow to 2,000 over time . they were given assault rifles , machine guns , and grenade launchers as well as other soviet-era hardware , some of it 70 :  when they spoke to us in russia , they explained that we were going on a contract with the syrian government ; they convinced us that everything was legal and in order . like , our government and the fsb were on board and involved in the project . when we arrived there , it turned out that we were sent as gladiators , under a contract with some syrian or other , who may or may not have a relationship with the government .... that meant that we were the private army of a local kingpin . but there was no turning back . as they said , a return ticket costs money , and we 'll work it off , whether we like it or not .  the manager of the entire outfit in latakia was vadim gusev , identified by fontanka as deputy director of moran . ( according to documents foreign policy obtained from slavonic corps ' registry , gusev also owns all 10,000 shares of the hong kong-based company . )  the one and only actual campaign slavonic 's mercenaries participated in control of oil fields in syria 's eastern province of deir ez-zor . portraits of assad and baathist flags were stuck to hyundai buses and jmc trucks as the men set off on a 350-mile trek eastward from latakia across rebel-infiltrated terrain . signs that their safety was n't really a paramount concern of their hosts became apparent immediately . battle-ready t-72 tanks were replaced by older , dilapidated t-62s before the mission began back in latakia . a syrian helicopter , evidently mistaking the russian convoy for enemy action , got itself tangled in power lines and crashed on top of the entire mercenary column albeit , wondrously , without killing anyone . then , on oct. 18 , the slavonic corps fighters met their bathetic little bighorn after getting stuck in the town of al-sukhnah , homs , where they were surrounded by a contingent of up to 6,000 anti-assad rebels ( a figure almost surely exaggerated ) . " not wanting to die in vain for the ideals of the syrian state , " korotkov writes rather grandly , the russians " jumped into their vehicles and began retreat , alexei malyuta 's bag was lost and fell into the hands of the regime 's opponents . " and from there his ecstatic obituary was uploaded to the kavkaz center .  six mercenaries were wounded in the melee , two seriously . but the mercenaries credited their escape and survival to a sandstorm that they say blinded the advancing jihadists . the russians returned first to an air base in homs where they recalled " a loud argument ... between vadim gusev and the syrian ' employer ' of the slavonic corps : it was clear that they had different views on the subsequent plan . everybody heard their yells , including mentions of dollars and , more specifically , of $4 million , that would have to be worked off . " in the event , nothing was worked off , and all 267 russians drove back to the base camp in latakia neither expecting a hero 's welcome nor receiving one ; instead , they were now scorned by the same crowd that had cheered them days earlier . a risky but remunerative assignment that was the men were flown back to moscow in the final days of october on two chartered planes . but as they filed off the planes at moscow 's vnukovo airport , all the men were taken into temporary custody by waiting fsb agents who confiscated their sim cards , electronic media , and passports and began interrogating them individually . gusev , the head of the mission , was arrested under article 359 along with evgeny sidorov , moran 's human resources head and a 20 percent owner of the company . both men now face as many as eight years in prison for recruiting mercenaries .  galeotti told the interpreter that given moran president vyacheslav kalashnikov 's background as an fsb reservist -- you never really " retire " from this status -- he and his private military company would have had " frequent and dense " contacts with the russian security organs . " someone within the government apparatus must have put/kept syria on the list of countries where they are clear to work and processed their request , " he said . andrei soldatov , another expert the restoration of russia 's security state and the enduring legacy of the kgb , agrees . " we can not exclude the possibility that kalashnikov just used his contacts in the fsb to get some good contracts in syria , " soldatov said . " i mean , it might be not that the fsb exploited him but that he exploited the fsb . "  it 's not hard to surmise why the fsb would have turned on a company it may have given tacit support to send men into syria . the mercenaries performed poorly in the field , and proof of their illicit activity had been plastered all over the internet , so not tossing gusev and sidorov in the clink might have caused the kind of scandal that even an unembarrassable kremlin would want to avoid . moscow has been outspoken in its criticism of u.s. and arab arms transfers to syria 's rebels , even as its own state arms export company dispatches more and more sophisticated hardware to assad , according to the state department 's robert ford , the u.s. ambassador to syria imperiled geneva ii peace conference takes place in december , just in time for the regime to be in a much- strengthened negotiating position after a series of tactical gains on the battlefield .  true , russia has n't been shy about showing support for assad even after the regime deployed chemical weapons on aug. 21 ( something the russian foreign ministry still denies ) . reuters reported recently that second-tier russian banks have been taking syrian regime deposits , including barter accounts that would allow damascus to import foodstuffs in exchange for oil or goods . russian military technicians have also been in syria to train and advise regime personnel on the use of russian-sold air-defense systems . at least one " former " gru ( russian military intelligence ) officer took a bullet in the face while claiming to have been vacationing in the war zone and moonlighting as a correspondent with pro-regime abkhazian network news agency . there were also rumors this past may that soldiers with the elite zaslon ( " screen " ) detachment of the russian special forces were being sent to syria , assault . but all this , as the kremlin loves to point out , has been undertaken strictly in compliance with " international law " and with respect to syria 's state sovereignty . but evidence of russian citizens breaking russian law to fight in syria -- that 's something that hard-line foreign minister sergei lavrov would find hard to explain in one of his big-grinning , palm-slapping rap sessions with u.s. secretary of state john kerry .  complicating things even more for russia is that moran may have violated sanctions on syria -- in the british virgin islands . while moran is technically registered in breezy see-no-evil belize , it is 50 percent owned by an entity called neova holdings ltd. , which is registered in the caribbean territory , a favored offshore corporate landing post for russian enterprises trying to obfuscate their ownership structures . ( in fact , even moran 's domain name is registered to neova holdings . ) the islands constitute a british overseas territory , and as such , they typically comply with british , u.n. , or e.u. sanctions regimes . indeed , services commission announced that it was in full compliance with the european union 's sanctions and arms embargo on syria and would " give effect to an asset freeze in relation to persons responsible for the violent repression against the syrian population in syria , persons and entities benefiting from or supporting the assad regime . " an attempt by foreign policyto reach the office of the british virgin islands ' premier for comment was unsuccessful . but regardless of what comes of the ongoing fsb investigation into moran 's weekend-warrior work in russia , its largest owner seems to have found itself on the wrong side of british virgin islands law .  moran previously made international headlines way before its abbreviated adventurism in homs . in october 2012 , one of its ships , the mv myre seadiver , was seized by the nigerian navy in lagos , where it had docked temporarily to change crews en route from madagascar to conakry , guinea . fifteen russian sailors on board , all of them comprising the new crew that had been replaced in port , were arrested . ( was not detained . ) myre seadiver , registered in the cook islands -- a territory legally bound to new zealand -- but sailing under a dutch flag , had a maritime registration certificate , dated june 2012 , authorizing the ship to " store , carry and embark/disembark arms &amp; ammunitions along with security teams . " it found was carrying 14 ak-47s , 22 benelli mr1 rifles , and thousands of rounds of ammunition for both , according to the nigerians , who said that the vessel had no prior authorization to dock in the country or transport weapons . nigeria is a hub for global arms trafficking , given its chronic problems with islamist insurgents , oil bandits , and pirates . it took until february 2013 for the sailors of myre seadiver to be granted bail -- which also came along with a $500,000 demand for the release of the ship -- and remanded to the custody of the russian ambassador in lagos . ( the sailors were returned to russia this past october . ) yet one veteran russia watcher , john helmer , who has fault in this affair .  moran has also cropped up in an unflattering light in a recent report by c4ads , a nonprofit security and analysis firm based in washington , d.c. " the odessa network : mapping facilitators of russian and ukrainian arms transfers , " written by c4ads senior analyst tom wallace and chief operating officer farley mesko , notes that one of moran 's clients is the german-owned hansa heavy lift ( hhl ) , the rebranded incarnation of beluga shipping , a bankrupted company that was notorious for russian and ukrainian arms trafficking through europe . " two members of hhl 's four managing directors are beluga veterans , " wallace and mesko write , " and a high percentage of hhl 's fleet is inherited from beluga . beluga was responsible for shipments of a.q. khan centrifuges to libya , anti-tank missiles to myanmar , and tanks to south sudan . the exact nature of moran 's relationship with hhl , or what kind of cargo they are hired to protect , is unknown . "  illegally running keystone cossacks into homs and contracting technology is n't exactly a winning corporate profile , even in vladimir putin 's russia . but moran 's humiliating moment at the hands of jihadists in syria , now confirmed by the russian media , comes at an especially sensitive time for moscow , which has lately been trying to host a meeting between assad regime officials and representatives of the western-backed syrian national coalition in advance of geneva ii . " the russian authorities are cracking down on these mercenaries because to not do so would compromise the image the kremlin is trying to cultivate as a fair and neutral player in helping solve the syria crisis , " said donald jensen , a former u.s. diplomat in russia and now a resident fellow at johns hopkins university 's center for transatlantic relations . " russia wants to be the country all parties to the conflict have to turn to , rather than the united states . " a surefire way to scupper this self-appointed role as peace broker for a 19-month civil war that has killed 115,000 people and externally or internally displaced millions more is to get a shady private military company with ti es to russian intelligence .