BN Prose: Glover Road Diaries by Ayodeji Rotinwa
http://www.bellanaija.com/2014/01/21/bn-prose-glover-road-diaries-by-ayodeji-rotinwa/

inspired !  bn prose : glover road diaries by ayodeji rotinwa  august 1997 father was , in his heyday , a bit of a treasure hunter . mother told me one dark , quiet night when n.e.p.a had done that for which they were most popular . the lazy smoke from the lantern tickled our nostrils , stung our eyes and we had hungry , mosquitoes for company and unsolicited symphony .  i had been asking about father for years . mother had always waltzed around the question without answering . my friends in school had started to ask me the same questions i asked her . after coming up short and embarrassingly so , one time too many , i demanded the truth from mother that night . i was only 8 years old but i used my grown up voice . i did not particularly miss having a father but i felt i had to know . eghosa , my neighbour and friend 's father beat up his mother every other day , weekend , even on special days like easter and that may do same to mother .  father , mother said , was a skilled digger , finding his way deep in between the legs of many women who he told the sweetest nothings and made fairytale promises to . she would know . his charms worked on her . she told me she had given up her treasure to him while she was a student and he was a teacher in dusty old epe , where he was posted to work at the time and where she was born , raised and lived . theirs was a hot and heavy romance that lasted the entire period of her final year in secondary school . in this time , father had probed every crevice , mined her treasure over and over again , more times than she could count . then he left after being posted to another school in a different , farther location . mother never heard from him again  years after their first tryst , father found his way back to epe in hunt for another gem . a more important kind . a son . to show for his explorations . but a male son eluded him still . he had to have one . he would be the crown jewel of his children .  mother had hated him for leaving her . he did not write or call . she had gone to university , and was rounding up her national service programme . she had not met or rather did not make an effort to meet a better half . father had been her first and only love .  ' and as they say , the first love is the sweetest , the first cut is the deepest , ' mother said nostalgia brimming in her eyes .  father wooed her again . this time he wanted her hand in marriage . he was convinced , though he did n't say how , that it was she that would bear him that which he desperately wanted . after all , she was ripe , untouched after his own visitations , pure . well , sort of .  she was hurt , angry but still went weak in the knees and . she knew he would not change his philandering ways . she knew he was married with six kids . she knew she was signing up for a lifetime of friction with the other women who courted his attention , who felt for him as she did and would do anything to keep him . she said yes to him .  eleven months after the deed , she birthed me .  ' so why did he leave ? if he wanted a son so bad , why then abandon me and you , whom he claimed to love ? ' i asked mother . i was confused .  ' and why did it take eleven months , not nine , to birth me , anyway ? that 's not what integrated science says , ' i said .  mother sighed , smiled and fell quiet for a spell . she wrung her hands . lines furrowed her forehead ; small , tightly wound like a meticulously assembled spider web . her eyes watered . she shivered for a split second though the room was quite warm . life-altering . heavy , unsaid words hung in the air with the now lightly fanning smoke .  ' put off that lantern and change the wick tomorrow morning . i 'm off to bed , ' she said .  july 1998 the long road rolled on for what seemed an eternity . i could not see the end , having squinted repeatedly , trying to , though the sun rays that bore through the windshield of the car got in my eyes . it was so smooth , too , the road , without blemish . the granite gleamed like diamonds . there were no itinerant balls of refuse idling up and down on it . there were no wayward puddles of water either , the kind that gathered when rains fell , in my neighbourhood , in the open wounds of the road . as we drove on , tall , elegant palm trees appeared . they whispered to one another as the wind blew . i wanted to crane my neck , out the window of the car , to see how high they were but thought only bush boys stared at palm trees as though they were an invention of note , he would say . the palm trees were interspersed by electricity poles that stood erect . the poles were not even poles at all but made out of stone . and they were erect ! in my neighbourhood , the electricity poles were made out of wood and mostly stood , the ones that were left standing anyway , bent at crooked angles , about to snap .  " this is glover road , ikoyi , son . " he announced , quickly glancing at me . " a damn sight better than the hole i just picked you out of , i should imagine . " he stroked his beard and laughed . father did this often when he felt he had made a fine point . i stared out the window once more noticing for the first time houses with numbers and names that confirmed that father just said . 8 , 9 , 10 , glover road , they read . i was surprised i did not see them before . had tall gates , almost as tall as the palm trees . i could n't tell for certain . the gates were nothing like the short , thin strips of metal welded together that stood guard at the entrance of our compound . these gates were subtly ornate , thick and mostly , a forbidding jet black colour .  " and this is home , " father said . we slowed down turning unto a small climb , stopping in front of a gargantuan gate , a bit bigger than the ones i 'd just seen . number 13 , glover road , a calligraphic sign on the gate read .  november 1998 when three months ago , we entered the house , with its decadent chandeliers , handsome columns , pensive , brooding paintings , ornate furniture , the long winding staircase , and plum , fleshy rug , i had assumed i was in heaven . hell soon came in form of an artificially beautiful woman that descended the stairs a few moments after father and i entered the house . her gait was delicate yet deliberate then suffocated it in the next . her eyebrows were raised the entire time of her descent . her skin had a brownish-white tinge , darker in some patches , more than others . her knuckles were black . on her fingers were many stones , in different sizes and shapes of precious . her hair was well-coiffed . her lips were smeared in an alarming blood-like colour . she had a curved smile that did not quite reach her eyes , which seemed to be dancing frantically in a search for understanding , when she saw me . i understood . i was out of place here . i was in my school uniform , the only article of clothing in which i could look smart and my earth-weary bata sandals .  " ariyike , this is ibrahim , he will be staying with us for his holidays , " father said in yoruba . he then walked away into a room with a door that melted into the wall . i did not see it there before .  confusion mapped her face . i then realized father who i was .  she eyed me . first up and down and then more keenly like i was a recently unearthed , long-searched for relic . a minute or two must have passed .  " good afternoon ma , " i said .  she came closer , studying my face some more . soon , knowledge formed in her eyes and her eyebrows met her hairline . she now knew who i was . she let out a soft gasp , first . then she began breathing heavily like a wounded ox . her fists clenched . words frothed to her mouth , it seemed but nothing escaped her lips . she eyed me , up and down , again , this time ominously . it was a look i later became familiar with .  ayodeji rotinwa is a writer . he believes satire should be the palm oil in which words are eaten . he hopes , on here , you will not choke . his fiction ( which he also writes ) can be your water . he is currently a penman for thisday others running word riots on a creation of his , www.theurbanemix.com , an online magazine on nigerian culture , social commentary and literary works . you can follow him at @ayodejirotinwa on twitter .  about ayodeji rotinwa  ayodeji is a writer with a keen interest in documenting and critiquing the arts/culture of our time . he hopes to rebirth an online magazine that does just this . he currently writes for national daily , thisday newspapers and has also been published by forbes africa . a graduate of international law and diplomacy , he plans to return to this field soon , professionally . alongside being a writer , he is an aspiring visual art curator and currently works with lagos ' new art destination , rele gallery .