12 mind-blowing sex positions for 2014
http://ynaija.com/12-mind-blowing-sex-positions-for-2014/

12 mind-blowing sex positions for 2014  the good old missionary position just had to figure on this list . it 's a godsend for men who love taking things into their own hands .  1 . face-play :  this position allows you and your man to look deep into each other 's eyes while getting intimate . simply sit him down on a chair or on the edge of the bed . jump onto his lap -- slowly yet seductively . let him take you by storm as he enters you . meanwhile , place his hands on your body and guide him through the sexiest of your curves . the joy of ' being together ' was never as satisfying -- both of you will definitely agree with this after you 've experienced this position .  2 . spooning with a difference :  lie on the bed and have him lie beside you . lift your upper leg and pull his leg in between yours . let him slowly enter you . to make it more exciting , let him slowly him . be careful not to put too much weight on one of his sides only . spooning allows for deep penetration . it is also slower , compared to the other positions . this increases its excitement quotient .  3 . fine dine 69 :  lubrication is the key to great first time sex . the 69 position ensures that this happens . stimulate each other long enough with oral sex , and then let your man change his angle and enter you as you lift your legs in the air . it will be a night to remember .  4 . butterfly :  lie down at the edge of your bed or your kitchen platform and let your legs fall over the edge . get him to kneel or stand at the edge of the bed or platform and slowly lift the small of your back as he enters you . rest your legs on his shoulders . this is an exciting position as it lets the blood rush to your head as he enters you . it will send you orgasming in a jiffy you sit on a slightly higher surface . since you are at the level of his waist , it does n't take him much effort to penetrate you . you will be opening yourself up to him ( figuratively and literally ! ) , giving him a chance for better foreplay .  6 . woman on top :  what better way to dominate your man than with this position ? this sex position gives you the power of control and guys luuuvv it too ! let him lie down on the bed , get on top of him , and well , you surely know what your next move will be ! you can even slap him around a little for fun .  7 . the slow climb :  keep a pillow under your butt and lift your hips and legs towards your shoulders . it stimulates the g-spot and making love becomes so much more erotic . in this position , you tend to feel more . ask your partner to slowly mount you and penetrate . be ready for the best orgasm ever .  stomach straight and ask your partner to lie flat against your body . with your legs resting on his , push your pelvis up . now , ask your guy to push down gently , providing a little counter-resistance . this position will give you a break from the regular in-and-out thrusting as it emphasises more on rocking up and down .  9 . the scissor :  this has the man kneeling in front of his partner who is lying down . he grips her ankles while doing it . this allows deep penetration and thus , gives more pleasure . it can be a little painful if it is n't done on a flat surface . you should support the lower back with a soft cushion .  10 . for the power junkie :  the good old missionary position just had to figure on this list . it 's a godsend for men who love taking things into their own hands . in case of the man-on-top , he 'll be taking your things into his hands . let go , surrender and let him do your head , nibble your earlobes , bite your neck or simply snog away to orgasm .  11 . the hang-glider :  it is adventurous and thrilling . facing the man , the woman -- necessarily slim and flexible -- hangs reverse , her legs dangling over his shoulders and crossed behind and hands crossed behind his back . perfect for cunnilingus .  12 . eagle :  you stand on a staircase with your legs spread wide apart . make him stand on the stair under yours , facing you . this will make it feel like you are doing it against the wall , but you are n't really taking the support of anything . you could also entwine your legs around him if he can take your weight .  join our online community  ynaija is the internet newspaper for young nigerians , focused on the issues and ideas that matter for an evolving generation . it is an arm of the red brand , which is the continent 's largest omni-media group focused on africa 's youth .