Larab Installed as 44th President of Rotary Club of Jos
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/larab-installed-as-44th-president-of-rotary-club-of-jos/183441/

larab installed as 44th president of rotary club of jos  the rotary international club of jos , plateau state has elected a new set of leaders to pilot the affairs of the club for the next one year , with mr. santos ayuba larab as the new president .  larab , who was inducted into the club in 2007 has served as an active member in various capacities including secretary , chair/director of public relations , among others before he was installed as the 44th president of the club alongside members of board of directors at a colourful ceremony , which took place in jos yesterday .  larab , while talking with journalists shortly after the installation ceremony , said the club under his leadership would do its best to step up its services to humanity , especially in the area of peace and conflict resolution , disease prevention /treatment , water/sanitation , maternal/child health , basic education/literacy , as well as economic and community development . he said , " we are slaves to service , our intervention will be in segregated communities their diversities to a common fellowship for community service and also for the purpose of collaborating to foster unity and solve society 's problems . "  the ceremony , which attracted dignitaries from across the country , also witnessed the presentation of awards to deserving recipients , including the nigerian television authority ( nta ) and silverbird television/rhythm 93.7 fm , jos zonal offices . the recipients were given awards in recognition for their peaceful broadcasting and reportage on the plateau . others who were also given an award by the club were two orphanage homes ; zawan orphanage and gidan bege for their services to the plight of the poor and downtrodden in the society . awareness for educational initiative ( awedi ) also got an award for its commitment to educational development .  please leave your comment below . your name will appear next to your comment . we 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .