The Best African Nations of 2014
http://www.goal.com/en-ng/news/4082/editorial/2014/12/29/7470422/the-best-african-nations-of-2014

goal nigeria celebrate the continent 's most impressive quartet of national sides over the last 12 months  opinionby ed dove &amp; james ezimoha  while nigeria endured a year to forget in 2014 , various other african nations have enjoyed successes that they can look back on with pride .  in this feature , we celebrate the performances and the progression of four of the continent 's most impressive national teams , and explore how and why things have gone right for them this year .  cape verde  the changing reaction to cape verde 's successes is testament to how quickly and convincingly they 've improved .  back in 2012 , when the tubaroes azuis secured their first cup of nations qualification by beating cameroon , it was celebrated as one of the greatest giant killings in the history of the african game .  in 2014 , however , when they advanced to the tournament proper after cruising through qualification group f , few people batted an eyelid .  cape verde minnows no longer  such is the conviction of cape verde have transformed from being rank outsiders to ' belonging ' at the continental top table .  the islanders were the first nation to confirm their presence at the afcon ( even ahead of hosts equatorial guinea ) and will travel to the tournament confident of escaping from group b.  rui aguas is so secure in his options that he can afford to travel to the cup of nations without players such as braga 's ze luis and dordrecht 's josimar lima .  no one will be welcoming cape verde with the ' minnows ' tag any longer !  south africa  a year of renaissance for bafana bafana .  gordon igesund 's unhappy time in charge of the national side came to an end in the middle of 2014 when the south african federation opted not to renew the coach 's contract .  i believe that the former moroka swallows boss did n't do as badly as some like to make out , but it 's fair to say that he left bafana in a fairly muddled state .  there were few pull the disparate threads of the national side together and ensure that the former african champions qualified for the 2015 cup of nations .  mashaba working wonders  nigeria fans know , better than most , exactly how successful mashaba 's early months at the helm were . the coach ensured that bafana bafana not only secured a spot at the continental showpiece in equatorial guinea , they did so in style .  they won three of their six matches and topped group a , eliminating the super eagles in the process .  while the revolution that many expected under mashaba did n't exactly materialise -- with the boss returning to many igesund stalwarts -- the coach has instilled a new belief and togetherness into the side .  there 's no doubt the collective have been shaken following the tragic death of goalkeeper senzo meyiwa , but bafana bafana will be relishing the opportunity to prove just how much they 've progressed over the last six months come january .  follow ed dove on  algeria  over the last 12 months , the algeria national .  the desert foxes , led by erstwhile manager vahid halilhodzic , qualified for the world cup unconvincingly , but ultimately justified their place as one of africa 's big five .  despite the wave of uncertainty that greeted their participation , it was algeria that , perhaps , brought more joy to mother africa than the other four .  a narrow 2-1 loss against belgium was followed by a dramatic 4-2 victory over korea to boost optimism . a 1-1 draw with russia afterwards was enough to hand them a round-of-16 appearance ; the first in their history .  algeria the pride of africa  their eye-catching displays looked glorious at times , and their quality was evident when it took germany , their second-round opponents and eventual winners , extra-time to break their hearts .  their world cup feat , as rubber-stamped by their improving fifa rankings in and out of the continent , saw them almost stroll through the 2015 nations cup qualifiers ; 15 points out of a possible 18 saw them top their group .  yacine brahimi emerged from the in 2014 . algeria 's impressive year also extended to the nation 's club sides , as es setif capped a glorious year for algerian football by bagging the 2014 caf champions league .  guinea  you wo n't find an african side that was more resilient and dogged in 2014 than the guinea national team . the reason for their appearance in this feature is that they fought hard together in the face of fierce adversity and overcame their obstacles against all odds .  the ? syli nationale were forced out of their country and home ground , the stade du 28 septembre , due to the raging ebola virus . fear of competition on infected soil robbed them of the much-desired and helpful home advantage , and they had to make casablanca their ' home away from home ' .  incredibly , though , when the flags of the 16 participating countries for the 2015 nations cup tournament are hoisted in equatorial guinea , there 's will be present ; something nigeria , for example , can not claim .  ibrahima traore a key man in 61st place in the fifa rankings but have steadily risen up the ladder , improving their results and displays . they will finish the year in the top 50 ; 39th position to be precise .  during the qualifying rounds in october , they were bottom of a group that comprised togo , uganda and ghana , but by november they had managed to secure a place behind the black stars in next year 's tournament .  it has been a rollercoaster ride for guinea but they are ending 2014 on a high .  follow james ezimoha on  which of africa 's national sides impressed you the most during 2014 ? comment below and let us know .