Libraries, Gale Partner for Online Accredited High School Diploma ...
http://goodereader.com/blog/e-book-news/libraries-gale-partner-for-online-accredited-high-school-diploma-program

libraries , gale partner for online accredited high school diploma program  according to data gathered by cengage learning , one us student drops out of high school every 26 seconds . the end result is is more than one million americans every year leaving school without a diploma . while sociologists have studied the effects on society of having a significant portion of the population unqualified and incapable of securing employment , companies like cengage are actively working to do something about it .  while critics could argue the underlying causes of dropping out , the basic issue remains that something needs to be done now . gale , part of cengage learning and a leading provider of educational content , tools and services to libraries , schools and businesses , has announced its initiative career online high school , which will enable public libraries to offer fully accredited high school diploma programs via the internet .  much like the increase in accredited university degree programs being offered online , cohs would allow students to earn actual high school diplomas instead of the current .  " the population of adults without a high school diploma is as high as 60 percent in some of the geographic areas served by our library system , " says john szabo , the city librarian of the los angeles public library , which serves over four million people . " our mission is to educate and empower every individual in our city 's diverse communities . we could not be more excited to offer career online high school and make a real impact in helping these adults reach their education and career goals . this is a game-changing program for our library and a life-changing program for our patrons . "  this program is accredited by advanced/sacs , the same governing body that oversees the accreditation of public schools and universities . students are able to transfer any pre-existing earned high school credits , so that previous school coursework is not " wasted " by using the cohs program . confidence is built in vocational areas before moving forward into academic studies , with many test subjects able to complete their high school diplomas in as little in the los angeles public library system in california , this program will hopefully reach a citywide population that has one of the highest dropout rates in the country , with the us census bureau reporting that nearly 25% of the adult population of los angeles does not have a high school diploma .