2014 employment trends
http://www.benefitscanada.com/news/2014-employment-trends-48420

2014 employment trends  staff january 10 , 2014  employers , take note of the this year 's employment trends .  according to a canadian survey by careerbuilder , here are the seven to watch in 2014 .  science , technology , engineering and math ( stem ) occupations continue to grow -- these types of occupations are expected to increase , with nearly two in five ( 38% ) companies planning to create jobs in these areas over the next 12 months .  full-time hiring -- employers plan to recruit full-time permanent employees across a variety of business functions and levels .  companies relying on temporary and contract hiring -- 61% of companies plan to hire contract or temporary workers over the next 12 months . of these employers , 45% plan to transition some temporary employees into full-time , permanent members of their staff .  skills gap -- while the growth of high-skill , specialized occupations is a positive sign for the economy , companies are struggling to keep up with the demand to fill these jobs . thirty-eight months or longer .  companies building the perfect employee instead of waiting for one -- in light of the skills gap , 55% of employers plan to train people who do n't have experience in their industry or field and hire them in 2014 . thirty-six percent of employers are sending current employees back to school to get an advanced degree -- and picking up all or part of the cost .  companies looking for recruits in high schools -- more companies are connecting with future generations of workers to establish a constant pipeline of job candidates . thirty-six percent of hiring managers have promoted careers at their firms to high school students or , in some cases , even younger ; 31% plan to do so in 2014 .  compensation increases in the new year -- in order to recruit and retain the best talent , companies have to offer competitive salaries , especially for hard-to-fill positions . compensation is becoming more competitive for specialized labour , with 33% of employers planning to raise starting salaries for high-skill roles in 2014 .  " as we begin are in a better financial position now than a year ago , and 61% of them expect sales to increase in the first half of the year , " says brent rasmussen , president of careerbuilder north america . " as a result , we expect hiring to increase in areas that support sales such as customer service , information technology and research/development. "