Newfoundland power outage prompts public inquiry
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/newfoundland-labrador/newfoundland-power-outage-prompts-public-inquiry-1.2491373

external links  ( note : cbc does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links . )  newfoundland and labrador 's public utilities board said today it will launch a formal inquiry into outages in the island 's power system , which practically collapsed over the last week .  in a statement , the pub said it will also hold a public hearing into the matter .  the call comes on the heels of outages that fell in the midst of severe weather , including a blizzard and during brutally cold temperatures .  almost all of newfoundland lost electrical power on saturday when a fire at a substation in sunnyside triggered a collapse at the holyrood generating station . the next night , another massive power outage occurred when a breaker at the holyrood switchyard malfunctioned .  the pub , which regulates electrical distribution in the province , said it will draft the " process and timelines " for its inquiry over the coming days .  newfoundland and labrador hydro has come in for hefty criticism aging equipment was not able to generate enough power to meet consumer demand that was significantly higher than expected . some of the crown agency 's assets were not able to work because of maintenance or faults .  the island-wide outages came in the middle of a series of rolling blackouts that began jan. 2 and ended jan. 8 . newfoundland power , the private company that sells newfoundland and labrador 's energy to most consumers , was forced to use the rolling blackouts to manage a limited supply that could not not keep up with demand .  this is the third investigation into the collapse of the power system .  on thursday , premier kathy dunderdale announced the government would launch an independent , external review of the province 's energy system , from generation to regulation .  nalcor energy , the crown corporation that runs newfoundland and labrador hydro , has started an internal investigation , and has begun sharing information with the pub .  liberals support pub inquiry  liberal leader dwight ball says the public must be allowed to express its opinions . ( cbc )  ? opposition leader dwight ball speaking with cbc news before the pub 's announcement , said dunderdale should have just let the regulator do its job .  " we believe the public utilities board has the legislative authority to answer all the questions and therefore make orders , allow the public to be involved -- there 's nothing wrong with that . why would the premier and this government not want the public hearings in this particular case ? " ball said .  " when you look at the mandate , and what falls within the purview of the pub , they can do any of this work that the premier is talking about . "  ball is critical that the government review may not allow the public to have a voice .  dunderdale said she will develop the terms of reference for the government-appointed review within the next six weeks . ball said it 's important that the root causes are found .  " what we 're looking for are ways and measures to prevent this from happening again , for a pub inquiry earlier this week .  nalcor says confidence needed in system  meanwhile , nalcor ceo ed martin said he welcomes an independent review of the province 's electrical system .  ? martin said he understands the public 's confidence has been shaken in the electrical system .  " our job is to bring back and ensure that people get re-established in their confidence in the system . so , from that perspective , that 's why i say i welcome such a review , " said martin .  martin said an independent review will help nalcor figure out what worked well and what did n't , so improvements can be made .  " you always want to improve . so , we 'll look for the things that went well . we 'll look for the things that did n't go well . and once we find those , our job is to take those and fix them and make them better . "  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .