Argentina lobbies to overturn Barrick's Pascua Lama freeze in Chile
http://www.mining.com/argentina-lobbies-to-overturn-barricks-pascua-lama-freeze-in-chile-53714/

argentina lobbies to overturn barrick 's pascua lama freeze in chile  barrick gold 's ( tsx , nyse:abx ) $8.5 billion pascua lama mine is getting a hand from argentine authorities planning to meet chile 's upcoming government to discuss the canadian miner 's options of reversing the decision that suspended the project in sept. last year .  chile 's newspaper el diario quotes ( in spanish ) argentine officials from the san juan province -- where the mine will be located -- as saying they will keep asking for a meeting with incoming president-elect michelle bachelet and her ministers until they are granted one .  sergio u ? ac , vice governor of san juan , said the message argentine authorities want to deliver to their peers in chile is the " importance of fast-moving the necessary decisions " to lift the project suspension .  on the argentine side , the project currently employs 5,000 , but in the next months the total will be reduced to 3,500 , as argentine workers wo n't be needed for another two years . barrick it needs to build a water treatment facility -- a requirement to getting an environmental permit .  pascua lama is expected to produce around 850,000 ounces of gold and 35 million ounces of silver in its first five years . production , scheduled to begin this year , has now been delayed until mid-2016 .  cecilia jamasmie , news editor at mining.com , has over 15 years of experience in print media , tv , online media and public relations . she specializes in corporate social responsibility ( csr ) and the latin american market . cecilia has been interviewed by bbc news and cbc among others . she has also been syndicated by forbes , seeking alpha and biv . she holds a master of journalism ( mj ) from the university of british columbia , canada , and she is currently based in halifax , nova scotia .