Sammy Yatim shooting: OIPRD launches its own review of Toronto ...
http://www.thestar.com/news/crime/2014/02/24/provincial_watchdog_to_review_use_of_force_by_toronto_police.html

ontario 's police watchdog , in a third review of the police shooting caught on video , will consider how officers treat people in a mental health crisis .  ontario 's independent police review director , gerry mcneilly , speaks at a 2012 news conference . he has announced oiprd 's second-ever review , this one into toronto police use of force tactics in response to public uproar over the shooting death of sammy yatim , caught on bystander video last summer .  ontario 's police watchdog says it is time for change within the toronto force and has launched an independent review into use-of-force tactics and police treatment of people with mental illness .  the new public probe by the office of the independent police review director is only the second of its kind since the agency was formed in october 2009 . it will focus on the toronto service , looking at officer training as well as how officers interact with the public -- specifically those in crisis or experiencing mental illness .  a final report containing recommendations will be released oiprd 's first review , which looked policing during the g20 summit in 2010 , released in 2012 , also focused heavily on the toronto police and included some scathing criticism of institutional failures and alleged misconduct .  director gerry mcneilly said the latest review was spurred by public complaints , which have focused increasingly on police use-of-force policies , and recent high-profile shootings -- including that of 18-year-old sammy yatim , who died last summer after being shot and tasered on a dundas streetcar .  in an interview with the star from his 10th floor bay st. office just a block from police headquarters , mcneilly said many of the key issues from the g20 report remain problematic today .  " we made some specific recommendations around training , around better communication , around giving better information to members of the public when they are interacting with police officers . in my view , we need to keep talking about that , " mcneilly said . " i hope my recommendations this time will be stronger , will be actually adopted and be implemented , because we oiprd is the third body to launch a probe in the wake of public outrage that surrounded yatim 's shooting .  in august , chief bill blair announced an internal probe of the death led by retired supreme court justice frank iacobucci .  the same month , ontario ombudsman andre marin announced his office would be looking into provincial guidelines for police on how to de-escalate potentially violent situations .  mcneilly said his review would be distinctive .  " i 'm doing it from a public-interest perspective , in regards to the public complaint system , " he said . " like any other citizen i looked at this matter and had some concerns about it . "  the oiprd can not enforce any changes stemming from its recommendations . mcneilly said he shares the public 's concern that past recommendations from various agencies have not been successfully implemented , and hopes that will change .  " maybe it 's time for the government to do something about it , " mcneilly said . " police services do a really good job of trying to as we expect them to . but what 's been tried and old , sometimes we need to review it . "  the new review will also consider the findings of a recent inquest into the shooting deaths of three people who had experienced mental illness and were carrying scissors or a knife when they were killed by toronto officers .  peter rosenthal , a toronto lawyer who represented the family of 29-year-old michael eligon at the inquest , said the oiprd review is welcome . but he said the inquest has already outlined both the problem and solution in a clear way .  the inquest heard officers are trained to deal with the behaviour someone exhibits , and not the condition that may be affecting them .  among its dozens of recommendations , the jury said officers should be trained to account for the possibility the person they are confronting is in a mental or emotional crisis , for example by offering verbal help and understanding rather than just yelling intimidating orders .  " it was astonishing to me that no officer did that in . " they should have been talking to him , not killing him . . . those recommendations should be implemented today , because it might kill somebody tomorrow . "  the review will seek not only to review the police service 's policy and procedures and determine best practices , but will also examine tools such as tasers , how training is given , and how previous recommendations have been implemented .  ian scott , former director of the special investigations unit -- which investigates all police interactions involving serious injury -- told the star that while such reviews can be helpful , a lasting concern is making sure police forces fully cooperate in investigations .  " the lamentable fact is there will be other fatalities in the future , " scott said . " what 's important in terms of trying to prevent future deaths is to have a thorough understanding of what happened each time . "  scott said part of that , and what should be considered in the oiprd 's review , is looking at video capabilities to document police interactions . they will be testing in a pilot project .  yatim 's death , which was caught on bystander video , " revolutionized the public 's view of these matters , " scott said .  the review itself will include any available video and audio as well as other documents and public input .  police spokesperson mark pugash said the service would " co-operate fully " with the oiprd review , " as we have with the other reviews being done on the same issue . "  toronto police services board chair alok mukherjee said the board has given the oiprd its " full support and cooperation . "  " i think the fact that oiprd have decided to conduct the systemic review is a further acknowledgement of public concern of use-of-force by the police , " said mukherjee , who also spoke publicly about those concerns following yatim 's shooting .  mukherjee pointed out how the board sought to have its own lawyer at the now-concluded inquest into the other shootings , and that 30 of 74 recommendations made by the jury were also proposed wants to see a greater focus on the police use of alternatives to lethal force , " mukherjee said .