A short history of Nathalie's family's income
http://www.macleans.ca/politics/ottawa/a-short-history-of-nathalies-familys-income/

Justin Trudeau 's speech to the recent Liberal Party of Canada talked about Nathalie , a fictional but representative member of Canada 's middle class :  She works hard . Maybe in an office in old Montreal . Maybe at a retail outlet along Sainte-Catherine Street . She makes 40k a year . It 's about what her spouse makes , too .  These numbers are roughly consistent with Statistics Canada 's estimates for the median income of a two-parent family with children and in which both parents work . We are given to understand that Nathalie 's family 's income has not seen much growth in the last decade .  Here are Statistics Canada 's estimates for Nathalie 's family 's income since 1976 :  A narrative in which Nathalie 's family was struggling along with stagnant or even declining incomes would have had real bite in the first twenty years of that sample . But their income has increased by almost 30 per cent since 1997 and by more than 10 per cent in the five years after 2006 .  the income distribution have seen even greater increases , and you might even want to say that you would like to see even faster growth at the median . But you do n't need to assert that median incomes have been stagnant to make those points .  You 're right , of course . I should know how income splitting works , but for some reason I got it backwards . I do n't know where my head was , although I think it should have been in bed . Thanks for the correction .  Assuming her neighbour had the same household income , her neighbour paid approximately $4,500 more in federal income taxes . This is NOT including up to $4,100 more for child care deductions ( the neighbour spends even more on childcare by staying home , but does n't qualify ) .  Nathalie 's household is enjoying 10 to 20% more income after taxes because of the fact that progressive income tax is assessed on individuals rather than households .  So you do understand that this ' Nathalie ' is a pure copy of got that . Because , ya know , the Liberals always complain about the Americanization of Canadian politics until , well , they do it ... ' Hope and Work ' . ' Nathalie ' , Larry Summers , what 's next : Justinacare ?  Pingston on February 26 , 2014 at 3:39 pm  Why would I care about that ?  I was commenting on how John here spouts on ad nauseum about how the media pick on his guy and praise Trudeau , even in the face of articles like this that does not , you know , praise Trudeau .  Gayle on February 27 , 2014 at 9:56 am  When I look at the graph , and then I consider the argument Trudeau is making , it seems utterly ridiculous . Seriously , he 's trying to solve a problem that was fixed 17 years ago . It 's not a problem . It 's not even close to being a problem . It 's actually a success story . Is this what liberals mean when they say that garbage about being reality-based ? a lot that ( a ) you would claim that it does not take inflation into account , when a simple glance at the the graph would show that it does , and ( b ) even if it did not take inflation into account , you would also utter this claim even though it would still be false , since the growth shown in the graph , over 3% per annum since 1995 , is larger than inflation , which has been less than 2% per annum since 1995 .  " - The growth in real average ( after-tax , after-transfer ) family income from 1976 to 2010 was the smallest in the middle-income group , at seven per cent  " - The top quintile ( top 20 per cent ) saw their family income grow by 27 per cent during that time ( average after-tax , after-transfer family income of $135,500 ) , compared to 14 per cent for the second-highest quintile ( after-tax family income of $73,500 ) "  This post should come with several caveats : ( 1 ) Applies only to a specific 3 ) Growth mostly due to transfers from government There are probably a few more that can be added .  Who 's misusing it ? Trudeau or Gordon ? Has the typical middle-class worker 's income increased 30% since 1997 in real terms ? Or has real middle-class income only increased 7% since 1976 ?  If there has been a significant increase , what exactly is driving it ? How sustainable is it ? You read the Conference Board of Canada and they say we need decent productivity growth to support rising real income . They also say , productivity growth ( including MFP growth ) is dismal .  The problem with economics is that there are no standards . There are no established facts , unlike the sciences . Economists can interpret a select set of data to bolster a political agenda .  " The middle class is n't a constant though , which is why there 's so much confusion . Back in the early ' 70s , about 60% of all the income earned in Canada went to the middle of the pack . why we have the term " shrinking middle class . " Yes , it really is shrinking . "  This article would be smart had you not forgotten that the graph depicts median income . That is basically an average for all you math haters out there . Therefore it can still climb at the shown rate while middle class incomes remain the same or ... are stagnant or ... are falling ... especially if the middle class is indeed shrinking . The top 5% of income earners drive that line WAY up .  Gordon , the author here , should have mentioned that the graph shows an AFTER-tax median income this year of $78K in Quebec , and yet Nathalie 's family income is $80K BEFORE taxes , or about $50K after taxes .  So Nathalie 's household is WAY below the median , and maybe ( even likely ? ) has not been experiencing the same degree of income uplift .  Nope . The chart above is for income after taxes and transfers . Income *before* taxes and transfers is in Cansim Table 202-0203 ( does n't much in the way of personal income taxes .  It appears to me that Mr. Gordon did not take inflation into account in his graph . He shows after tax income but not after inflation income . If that is the case then his Justin Trudeau is absolutely correct . Canada 's high income earners are doing great even after inflation is accounted for .  Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again .  Sign In / Sign Up  With your existing account from  With an email account  Commenters who signed up before June 26th , 2014 will have to reregister on our new , social-friendly login system . The good news ? The process should only take a few minutes , and you Almost Done !  Please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #socialRegistrationForm * * **27;157;TOOLONG * * **26;186;TOOLONG * * **30;214;TOOLONG * * **29;246;TOOLONG * By clicking " Create Account " , I confirm that I have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that I agree to be bound by them .