Alberta, Saskatchewan seek federal help easing backlog of Prairie ...
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/alberta-saskatchewan-seek-federal-help-easing-backlog-of-prairie-grain/article17076829/

alberta and saskatchewan are calling on the federal government to intervene to ease a backlog of grain in the prairies , by brokering deals to ship more by rail and levying cash fines if railways do n't live up to obligations .  the backlog stems from a combination of an unusually ample harvest last year and competing demands for capacity on canada 's railways , with recent cold weather adding to the shipping pinch . western canada farmers netted a bumper crop in 2013 , harvesting nearly 40 per cent more grain than the five-year average , according to alberta . but farmers have since faced long delays getting their product to port and seen product prices slump in the meantime .  agriculture minister gerry ritz responded by saying all options are on the table , but criticized rail companies for insufficiently addressing the delays .  saskatchewan wants ottawa to " immediately " broker service agreements between grain and rail companies to require certain levels of shipping , while alberta wants ottawa to bring in fines against railways who deliver " inadequate service . for the backlog , said bill boyd , saskatchewan 's minister of the economy . " i think there 's blame to go around here . i do n't think there 's any individual group that is without blame , " mr. boyd said in an interview monday . without service agreements , " there 's no obligation , there 's no accountability built into the system . "  some critics argue grain shippers are being pinched as energy companies move oil-by-rail , leaving fewer locomotives to haul grain cars . gary stanford , president of the grain growers of canada , welcomed the provincial proposal if penalties would lead to faster grain shipment , though he is n't sure how that might work in practice . " they 're private companies . to step in and make legislation , would it really help us in the short term ? "  he said the oil shipments , by themselves , have n't had " much of an effect " on the grain backlog . " there 's a lot more product on the railroad overall , " he said he added .  alberta says current penalties for rail companies are vague and often lead to lengthy arbitration .  asked about the two provinces ' proposals , mr. ritz responded with a statement saying he wo n't let farmers " be held hostage by this poor service " of rail and grain companies .  " the bottom line is that the current level of rail service is unacceptable to farmers , and the railways have not yet put forward a viable plan to address this year 's bumper crop . our government will not let farmers or our economy be held hostage by this poor service , and we are considering all options to ensure our farmers are able to get their crops to market , " mr. ritz said , in a statement released by spokesman jeffrey english .  in an interview with the canadian press , however , mr. ritz signalled a reluctance to take " prescriptive " action . " at the end of the day , there 's nothing stopping the grain companies and the railways from negotiating with reciprocal penalties as part doing that now , " he said .  both cp and cn say they 're making more cars available , but that a cold snap has hampered efforts because frigid weather requires that trains be kept shorter to ensure brakes function properly .  cn says it made available 3,530 empty grain cars last week , and hopes to average 4,000 per week " as soon as extreme cold temperatures abate . " by april , the railway hopes to run as many as 5,500 cars per week . " cn is doing its level-best to move this 100-year grain crop to export position and world markets , " spokesman mark hallman said .  asked about the call for government-negotiated pacts , he said the company prefers " collaboration " with grain companies . " cn believes increased supply-chain collaboration , involving all stakeholders , not just railways , is the best way to drive a more efficient grain transportation system , " mr. hallman said .  canadian pacific railway declined to respond to the provinces ' requests , and could n't offer any specific numbers of cars says it shipped 17 per cent more grain than the five-year average . " with a record crop size , cp recognizes the urgency currently facing western canadian grain farmers , " cp spokesman ed greenberg said .  cp ceo hunter harrison said last week that the railway is moving grain as fast as it can but often faces delays unloading the product . the saskatchewan government said monday grain companies " told us they could quickly move to provide service 24 hours a day if the grain reaches them . "  grain prices have slumped 20 to 30 per cent for farmers since the fall , mr. boyd said , adding buyers are now looking elsewhere . " we see our premium markets , like japan , being lost as a result " of the backlog , mr. boyd said , adding he hopes mr. ritz acts quickly to broker a deal with rail and grain companies . " frankly , i think he 's frustrated with the whole system , too . this is a way to kick-start negotiations , " mr. boyd said .