Zuckerberg may have made a brilliant move with WhatsApp deal
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/investment-ideas/strategy-lab/growth-investing/zuckerberg-may-have-made-a-brilliant-move-with-whatsapp-deal/article17074730/

last week , facebook inc. made a very big decision . ceo mark zuckerberg 's decision to acquire whatsapp , a mobile instant messaging app , for $19-billion ( u.s. ) has huge numbers of industry observers questioning his level of sanity and intelligence . but depending on what they do with the acquisition , it could prove to be a brilliant deal that completely redefines mobile communication and generates huge profits for facebook .  to understand why so many people are shocked , one needs only to look at facebook 's previous major acquisition . they paid $1-billion to acquire photo sharing app instagram . looking only at price and not digging any deeper , the $19-billion price tag for whatsapp seems crazy . it was also popular opinion that instagram was also too expensive . it 's only natural for people to look at the whatsapp deal and conclude that mr. zuckerberg has lost his mind if he 's paying nearly 20 times as much money for a five-year-old mobile instant-messaging company that brings in very little revenue .  i 'll admit the a chance to think about the deal and consider its long-term potential to change facebook 's future , i realized mr. zuckerberg could be making a brilliant move . it 's quite clear to me he 's thinking about the next decade or more , while most short-term-minded investors suffer from tunnel vision locked onto today 's revenue .  in the next decade , i think the majority of the world will stop using sms , otherwise known as text messages , and shift to data-oriented messaging programs on their smartphone . facebook 's goal should be , and appears to be , to own this market . there is no global standard today , so google , apple , blackberry , whatsapp and others compete with each other just like the classic example of vhs versus beta in the early vcr market .  whatsapp is huge . it has 450 million monthly active users , and 70 per cent of these users are active on any given day . they are growing at one million new users per day , so they could reach over a billion people the whatsapp network carries almost as many messages as the global sms market .  i also think this goes far beyond instant messaging . i believe the mobile communication industry is set to have one dominant application for text , voice and video . whatsapp will be bringing voice messaging to its platform later this year . facebook is n't just betting on texts : i think they 're making a play to dominate all forms of communication on mobile devices . since whatsapp is already huge , the network effect is on facebook 's side .  can this be monetized ? clearly . whether it be collecting better data for targeting ads on facebook or selling subscriptions to services , the possibilities are endless . when you consider that the global sms market brings in about $100-billion annually ( according to facebook ) , it 's pretty clear that there is money to be made here .  considering the massive size of this industry , winning matters . and up until now facebook was not winning . not even close . by the company 's own admission , more as a replacement for e-mail . in other words , people are not in the habit of using facebook messenger for real-time conversations . that 's where whatsapp shines .  facebook has n't just invested $19-billion to take over a popular instant messaging app . they 've invested in the possibility of dominating mobile communication , using voice , video and text . the upside , should they execute well , is probably larger than most of us can imagine .  this is not a short-term bet , nor is it suitable for those with weak stomachs . short-term thinking by ceos and investors is , in my opinion , dangerous . i 'd much rather see investors model the thinking of successful executives who have a proven track record of creating long-term value versus the short-term thinking of most professional investors who underperform the market .  if you own facebook shares as a long-term investment as i do , both personally and in my strategy lab portfolio , i 'd suggest you view this acquisition as a very reasonable risk for facebook to take . all rights reserved . republication or redistribution of thomson reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in thomson reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' thomson reuters ' and the thomson reuters logo are trademarks of thomson reuters and its affiliated companies .