Who is John Tory? A profile of the mayoral candidate
http://globalnews.ca/news/1169401/who-is-john-tory-a-profile-of-the-mayoral-candidate/

what is this ?  toronto -- john tory announced monday that he would once again be running for mayor of toronto .  " the skills and experience i have , i think are right to bring the kind of leadership to the city now to get some things done , getting transit built and getting people working together , " he said on the morning show .  he will be going up against mayor rob ford but tory has a lengthy r ? sum ? in politics .  he ran for mayor of toronto in 2003 against david miller but lost , bringing in 38 per cent of the vote compared to miller 's 43 per cent .  but his first brush with politics was in the office of the premier under bill davis from 1981 to 1986 .  watch : mon , feb 24 : talk-radio host and former leader of the pc party of ontario , john tory , talks about the race to become mayor of toronto .  in the early 1990 's he worked with the the disastrous 1993 campaign of kim campbell .  the campaign faltered after intense criticism over an attack ad targeting then liberal leader jean chretien which featured several unflattering close-up photos of the chretien .  many people thought the ad focused on chretien 's facial abnormality caused by bell 's palsy , though the ad makes no mention of it . the progressive conservatives , led by campbell , lost 154 seats that election finishing last out of five parties .  tory has also served in high-profile positions away from politics , serving as ceo of rogers communications inc. from 1995 to 1999 and as chairman of the canadian football league ( cfl ) from 1996 to 2000 .  a few months after losing the mayor 's race to miller , tory took a shot at provincial politics seeking to replace ernie eves as leader of the provincial progressive conservative party . he led the tories until 2007 when he ran against then mpp kathleen wynne in her riding of don valley west .  he returned to broadcasting after the election hosting a radio show on newstalk ontario on global news .  but he has n't stepped away from politics , assuming the chairmanship of the greater toronto civicaction alliance in 2012 . the group has championed transit reform and initiated a large advertising campaign asking people what would " would do for 32 " minutes , or the amount of time lost in gridlock each day round the gta.