Crimea crisis gives NATO alliance new purpose
http://www.ctvnews.ca/politics/crimea-crisis-gives-nato-alliance-new-purpose-1.1734522

BRUSSELS , Belgium -- With a deafening thunder , the first NATO AWACS surveillance plane pierces the milky morning sky over Germany 's Geilenkirchen base , on its way to monitor the skies above Ukraine .  Listen very carefully , and you can also hear the NATO alliance roaring back into the geopolitical arena .  Quite a turnaround for a 65-year-old military organization increasingly condemned by many as a costly anachronism .  The crisis around Ukraine " is providential from the point of view of NATO , " said Nick Witney of the European Council on Foreign Relations . " It gives it a new lease on life . "  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen left Tuesday for talks in Washington bound to centre on the evolving crisis . And at the same time U.S. Vice-President Joe Biden arrived in Poland in a clear show that the United States , and NATO , stands together with its worried partners in the military alliance .  On the same day , Russian President Vladimir Putin approved the annexation of Crimea and warned he Russia 's " fence . "  " At a moment like this , we all appreciate in a special way the fact that we are in NATO , " Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski said recently .  The NATO alliance was forged in the wake of World War II , when the West was fighting the Soviet Union in a direct confrontation between free-market capitalism and Communism , an ideological battle that basically sliced Europe in two .  Essential during the Cold War when it faced the Soviet-backed Warsaw Pact in a standoff involving thousands of nuclear missiles , NATO 's role has been questioned since the demise of Communism , and even more so after the Balkan wars of the 1990s .  It has expanded to include many former Warsaw Pact members , and stretched its geographical title of North Atlantic Treaty Organization to the limit with far-flung operations in Afghanistan and Libya . But it was Putin who gave it fresh credibility with his incursion into Ukraine 's Crimean Peninsula .  On top of the deployment of the AWACS planes , Britain decided Monday to Baltic air policing mission . The U.S. Air Force currently patrols air boundaries of the Baltics with 10 F-15C Eagle fighter jets .  Last week , the United States deployed some 300 troops and a dozen F16 fighters to Poland for joint exercises , but also to support its NATO partner .  Suddenly , nations that were once controlled by Moscow crave NATO 's protection .  " It would be hard to imagine any stronger guarantees of Poland 's security , " Komorowski said as his country marked 15 years of NATO membership last week .  Ukraine proves to be a case in point . It is a NATO partner , but not a member , so it does not fall under the Article 5 collective defence clause that states that an attack on one ally is considered an attack on all .  If Ukraine had had such protection , NATO would have had to ensure military protection and go to war if necessary .  " Yes . Yes -- there is no question about that , " said Steven Blockmans of the Centre for country , we would be talking about the invasion and occupation of a part of a country without that country 's central government 's consent . "  If Russia were to do the same thing in a NATO country , such as one of the Baltic states that have a sizeable Russian minority , " Article 5 would describe an obligation to come to the defence of ( the country ) , including the use of armed forces , " Blockmans said . " If Russia were to take that gamble , there would be no stepping back from the brink of war for the NATO allies . "  Such is the fear of Russia that some now want NATO to send ground troops to the Baltic states to counter Moscow 's threat .  " Increased presence of NATO allies in our region would make sense , both militarily as well as serving as a deterrent , " Estonian Defence Minister Urmas Reinsalu said on the same day the AWACS took flight . " Living next door to the Big Bear means that we need a solid defence changed reality in Europe , where trade and co-operation between East and West seemed the future over the past decade . Now , the continent is staring at confrontation .  Witney of the foreign relations council said there is little alternative at this stage .  " It is necessary to respond in that sort of way . Otherwise , it is possible that Putin and those around him could misinterpret it as a sort of terminal weakness of the West . "  " It will be a resumption of institutional attitudes that will last for a good many years . "  Jari Tanner from Tallinn , Monika Scislowska from Warsaw and Juergen Baetz from Berlin contributed to this story .