Hoilett responds to campaign allegations
http://theeyeopener.com/2014/03/hoilett-responds-to-campaign-allegations/

hoilett responds to campaign allegations  while campaigning for friends at the university of toronto , incoming ryerson students ' union ( rsu ) president rajean hoilett allegedly misrepresented himself as a u of t student , according to an article published on the campus newspaper 's website .  on march 13 , the varsity , u of t 's student-run newspaper , published an article investigating claims of outside student executives helping current vice-president of equity and presidential hopeful , yolen bollo-kamara , campaign at the school 's st. george campus .  among the executives from york university and ryerson encouraging u of t students to vote for friends running for executive positions in the university of toronto student union ( utsu ) election under the slate u of t voice were melissa palermo and hoilett .  like members of the rsu , bollo-kamara is a member of the canadian federation of students ontario ( cfs-o ) .  titled , " u of t voice 's use of rsu , yfs campaigners draws criticsm , " the article says that a student for an interview .  the article also says that hoilett initially identified himself as a u of t student before admitting he was a ryerson student .  hoilett denies these claims , adding furthermore that the journalist never identified themselves as a reporter .  " i did n't identify as a u of t student . i was asked if i have a tcard -- which is their equivalent to our onecard , " hoilett said . " i said i 'm a ryerson student , i 'm helping out a friend . i declined to do an interview and that was the article that was published . "  joshua oliver , the varsity 's editor-in-chief , stands by his paper 's story .  " when rajean was first approached by a reporter who said they were working for the varsity , he said that he was a u of t student but did n't answer any other questions , " oliver added .  reporters at the varsity made efforts to contact hoilett before the article was published , but still have not received a to respond when we reached out to him , " oliver said . " if he disagrees with what the reporter said , he never communicated that to us and i have no reason to believe that what the reporter said is n't accurate . "  this is the first year that the varsity has sent out their writers to report on the campaigning for the union , after yearly reports that ryerson , york and other cfs-o students are helping to campaign .  oliver told his reporters to cover the campaign , introduce themselves as a reporter and interview everyone they saw campaigning .  both hoilett and palermo said they used their vacation time to help campaign . rsu executives get two weeks vacation allotted each year . hoilett said he took about three or four days of personal time to help .  " yolen is a friend of mine and i 'm excited that she 's running for president of her students ' union , " palermo said . " when she asked me if i could help campaign , i told her i would her . "  both rsu members were seen on tuesday , march 11 and on wednesday , march 12 at polling stations around the u of t campus .  but while bringing off-campus support to help campaign is permitted under u of t election rules , misrepresentation is not .  on march 13 , the chief returning officer ( cro ) received a complaint that presidential candidate bollo-kamara and vice-president of internal and services candidate , cameron wathey , violated election procedure codes .  according to the cro 's ruling announced march 14 , upon investigation she determined that bollo-kamara and wathey violated an article under " responsibility of the candidates " after a " volunteer misrepresented their status as a student at the university of toronto . "  both bollo-kamara and wathey received two demerit points for " misrepresentation of facts . " hoilett said that he has not heard of anything regarding the cro report and had no comment .  " candidates under our rules are held responsible for the actions of the people volunteering for them , " oliver said . " a misrepresentation of facts , one of the things you can get demerit points for in our election . "  the eyeopener was unable to confirm if these violations were related to the allegations surrounding hoilett .  " it did n't specify the volunteer , it did n't specify the occasion so it 's not clear in the ruling that it 's referring to this incident , " oliver said . " although it 's obviously possible . "  pages  categories  contact us  have a news tip ? story pitch ? want to volunteer ? dying to comment about something you read in the paper ? want the eyeopener to cover your upcoming event ? contact us on twitter @theeyeopener , on facebook or at 416-979-5262 ext. 2338 .  advertising  need a fresh audience for your brand or business ? advertise with the eyeopener.