Neil Young's Pono system - hard to say if its time has come
http://www.thestar.com/entertainment/music/2014/03/18/neil_youngs_pono_system_hard_to_say_if_its_time_has_come.html

Say what you will about Neil Young : he 's blunt , he 's mercurial , he does n't " realize that there are other people involved in this world , " as Graham Nash puts it in his recent autobiography .  But there 's one adjective you could n't imagine applying to him , at least not until he made his session at SXSW for his portable , high-fidelity music system , Pono : pitchman .  As the Toronto Star 's Ben Rayner observed from Austin , Young is on a quest to " bring vinyl-quality sound to a generation of music consumers accustomed to listening to thin MP3 files through laptop speakers and earbuds ' that look like lozenges ' . "  For music lovers -- especially music lovers of a certain age -- it 's a tantalizing promise : a chance to hear music like it used to sound , before those kids with their MP3s and iPhones and their insistence that music consumption be , above all else , convenient got their hands on it .  But watching the get a sinking feeling , and here 's why .  1 . The product is aimed at out-of-home listening . If we want vinyl-quality sound in our living room , we 'll just play records . A decent turntable is relatively inexpensive , and Toronto is blessed with an abundance of used-record shops where you can still ( as we did recently ) stumble upon an original copy of Young 's Harvest , complete with lyric sheet and grainy cover , for eight bucks . No portable format can beat that .  And we do n't know about you , but our car is n't equipped with the kind of speakers that can distinguish between 44.1 kHz/16 bit CD quality and 192/24 ultra-high resolution , especially when we 're sitting amid the roar of rush hour traffic on the Gardiner .  2 . The players are n't cheap . Once they hit stores , provisionally this fall , they 'll sell for $399 , and that does n't include a pair of headphones decent enough to take advantage of the high-fidelity sound .  3 . The music $24.99 , according to the FAQ at ponomusic.com . The price for single songs has n't been set . Neither , apparently , has the cut Pono will take on music sales . Apple , for instance , gets 30 per cent off the top . At SXSW , that question was met with a response from CEO John Hamm ( no , not that one ) that was so evasive , even Young conceded he did n't provide an answer .  And , as a couple of audience members at SXSW noted , a lot of us already own some music on record , cassette , CD and MP3 . We do n't want to buy it again .  4 . You can already buy the music in the same format and quality that the Pono music store will be selling in October . As the SXSW presentation made explicit , Pono is not a new format . It plays FLAC ( Free Lossless Audio Codec ) files . Sites with extensive repertoires , such as hdtracks.com , already sell albums and tracks in the high and ultra-high using a unique digital filter ; we 'll have to wait til the fall to hear how much better it might sound .  5 . Hippie values aside , part of us wishes that Young 's system was aimed more at communal listening . The pitch video focused on listening to Pono in your car , and Young also mentioned headphones , but both of those scenarios feel like an extension of Shuhei Hosokawa 's famous " The Walkman Effect . " In other words , they encourage " self-enclosure . "  If you really long to go back to the way music used to be consumed , you might empathize with Jacques Attali 's words in Noise : The Political Economy of Music . He calls music " a tool for the creation or consolidation of a community . . . " Pono does n't really seem like it 's built for that .  Mind you , as a fan who has bought every piece of music Young has released ( and some he has n't ) , we 've learned that his intentions are n't always -- and the fact that its Kickstarter campaign raised $2 million in one day is a promising sign -- it could spark Apple into making its players , phones and tablets FLAC-compatible .  That would be a win for everybody . And that we do get .  THE VINYL COUNTDOWN : Official news about what many consider to be the vinyl event of 2014 , the expanded , remastered reissues of the first three Led Zeppelin albums , has been as rare as a Phil Kessel bodycheck . But after the invaluable Twitter feed for LedZepNews spotted detailed listings for those releases on Amazon 's U.K. site , the official word has finally arrived .  I , II and III will be released on June 3 as both single LPs ( on 180-gram vinyl ) and deluxe-edition LPs , which will include the original album remastered and additional discs of bonus material . ( The albums will also be released in one-CD and two-CD versions , as well as box sets containing the CDs , the vinyl , high-def downloads , a book and more . )  Led Zeppelin I -- a legendary 1969 concert at Paris 's Olympia -- is streaming in its entirety on YouTube . For now .  RETRO/ACTIVE : Though Jethro Tull 's one-song album Thick As a Brick appeared more than 40 years ago , Ian Anderson seems lately to have gotten the bug to revisit his epic concept album/parody of a concept album .  Two years ago he released an official sequel . Next month , Anderson " reunites " with Gerald Bostock , the schoolboy poet/fictional lyricist at the centre of the original story , for Homo Erraticus . The central conceit is to set to music an old Bostock manuscript to both revisit Britain 's history and speculate on its future . You can get a small taste here .