SHELF LIFE: Attention thrifty, altruistic shoppers
http://thechronicleherald.ca/business/1194307-shelf-life-attention-thrifty-altruistic-shoppers

word on the street is that a changing of the guard is going down at menz &amp; mollyz bar on gottingen street .  longtime owner doug melanson is said to have been approached by brian hines , who , according to an employee , is passionate about the venue and offered melanson the money to buy the bar .  recognized as a lgbt community favourite in atlantic canada , menz &amp; mollyz celebrated its ninth anniversary in january . melanson did not respond to requests for an interview .  bibles for missions thrift store halifax  secondhand shopping that gives back to the community kind of makes you feel all warm inside , does n't it ?  the bibles for missions thrift store halifax will celebrate its first day of business on saturday . located in a new development at 31 temple terr. in lower sackville , the non-profit shop is a first for the organization in nova scotia .  these thrift stores convert donated used goods into cash for the bfm foundation ( canada ) , which supports various community agencies 42 stores has generated nearly $60 million in its 25-year history .  shoppers can dig for deals monday through friday from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. and on saturdays from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m . the organization welcomes donations on an ongoing basis and will arrange to pick up large items from your home . for more information visit bfmthriftstores.ca .  telus  joseph howe drive will welcome two new condo developments in coming months , and area residents can look forward to new retail offerings on the busy strip . telus is the first confirmed tenant to occupy a ground-floor space at saint lawrence place , located near the corner of joe howe and dutch village road .  property spokesman maurice fares of w.m. fares group tells me the office space is 90 per cent leased and tenants will be moved in by mid-summer and all retail space is leased and should be occupied by the end of the month .  boomburger  the burger invasion continues ; boomburger out of p.e.i. is setting up shop in the larry uteck area , near second cup similar to five guys burgers and fries . big on fresh and local , boom serves up made-to-order p.e.i. raised beef and p.e.i. potatoes .  big thanks to fellow retail follower @halifaxretales for yet again another great find .  better than her boutique  the transformation at spring garden place continues . better than her , a trendy boutique that could previously be described as a postage stamp , is expanding . the exit of a small gallery presented the right opportunity for owner and style maven courtney jones to grow her brand .  " the fact that we will have two change rooms , that 's an absolute dream , " jones said in a recent interview . " we 're getting a whole other storefront so we 'll definitely have more space and it 's all going to have a really modern esthetic . "  the extra space also allows jones to fulfil a promise she made to shoppers in the early days of business -- to carry petite and plus sizes .  renovations will get underway soon and jones plans to keep her home furnishings retailer , structube , opens its first nova scotia store at the village shops at dartmouth crossing on saturday .  the family-run business will set up at 186 hector gate at dartmouth crossing , bringing its complement of stores nationwide to 42 and counting .  ko-doraku  from its cosy corner in the basement of spring garden place , ko-doraku has emerged on brenton street .  the sushi joint that 's been a hidden gem in the area has taken over the ground-floor space that splurge handbags once inhabited .  onyx  a downtown halifax favourite has made the move to argyle street . the new and improved onyx dining swung open its doors on march 13 to unveil three chandelier booths and another stunning bar -- two memorable features from its days on spring garden road .  the menu , created by chef ashley davis , features small plates like lobster dumplings and oysters and a sour dough grilled cheese , and a dinner menu featuring lamb chops , cornish game hen and a foie-gras-stuffed angus burger .  meanwhile , the spring tenant in coming months . marilisa benigno , a broker with ventura realty , said tuesday that the property has garnered interest from a variety of possible tenants and an announcement will be made when the deal wraps .  common values emporium  a portion of the retail space at the corner of cornwallis and agricola streets is now vacant . after a year in business , and in an effort to better serve its entrepreneurs , the business has gotten smaller -- and more focused .  the new setup offers more pet supplies and a market-style alley that showcases the work of local entrepreneurs , leaves a portion of the large retail space vacant and open for a new tenant , which i 'm told will arrive soon .  common values is a social enterprise that offers hands-on learning for its clients and staff .