So, what happened during the 2014 mayoral election's first televised ...
http://torontolife.com/city/toronto-politics/mayoral-election-first-televised-debate-recap/

So , what happened during the 2014 mayoral election 's first televised debate ?  So , what happened during the 2014 mayoral election 's first televised debate ?  Last night 's CityNews mayoral debate was the first opportunity for 2014 's mayoral candidates to interact with one another on television . It was , in more ways than one , a mess . The format was a free-for-all , with short opening statements from each of the candidates followed by no-moderation shouting matches on general topics like " transit " and " leadership . " This way of doing things tended to reward loud voices and feigned indignation , which happen to be two of Rob Ford 's strengths . And so it 's not particularly surprising that most of the post-debate analysis has focused on how unexpectedly well he did , considering , you know , all the stuff . Nobody even mentioned crack until more than an hour in .  There were a few opportunities for pre-selected journalists to pose questions to the candidates of their choice , but by and large much is n't entirely CityNews 's fault : it 's still relatively early in the campaign and none of the candidates have finalized their platforms yet .  Even so , there were some good parts . Here are some of them :  Most-vicious burns :  " You 've let the citizens of this city down . You 've let the reputation of this city down . Maybe you 'd like to address that . ( Tory , to Ford )  " I do n't really need to take any lessons from you , because we 're not on the golf course right now . " ( Chow , to Tory )  " How could you get away with all this crazy lying ? Because there 's not truth . " ( Chow , to Ford )  " John , you had your chance at the province and you fell flat on your face . You know it and I know it . " ( Ford , referencing Tory 's time as leader of the Ontario PC party )  Most-derisive mentions of David Miller : councillors against the irresponsible spending of David Miller . In this election , voters will have a choice , and we need to make sure that we do not go back . " ( Stintz )  " David Soknaki , you were part of Team Miller , as were you , Olivia . And we heard loud and clear in the last election that voters wanted change . They did n't like those NDP spending practices . " ( Stintz )  *There 's no obvious basis for the assertion that D-Soks was a spendthrift during his time as budget chief . Spending hikes during his tenure were in line with what has happened under other budget chiefs since amalgamation .  Ways the candidates are just like you and me :  " Where I come from , we make 50 cents do a dollars ' worth of work . " ( Soknacki )  " My family moved to Toronto when I was 13 . My mother could n't find a job as a schoolteacher , so she worked in a hotel and then in a laundry department I know the value of the dollar . " ( Chow )  " As a mom with two kids , and ten years on council , I 've learned a lot about our city . " ( Stintz )  Reasons Rob Ford does n't deserve to be reelected :  " Rob Ford wants to waste a billion dollars on his transit plan in Scarborough . " ( Chow )  " Whatever he 's done in the past three years -- and that 's a subject of great debate -- he 's run out of gas . He 's not able to get anything through the city council anymore . " ( Tory )  " He is really not a good role model for my grandchildren , or your kids . " ( Chow )  Face Rob Ford makes when confronted with the fact that he has n't actually saved the city " a billion dollars " during his mayoralty :  Best dressed :  Olivia Chow , with the CN Tower on her shirt .  Number of times Karen Stintz said the word  Four .  Time before Rob Ford was forced to explain his behaviour by saying " I 'm not perfect " :  One hour and nine minutes , and only when asked about his crack scandal by a journalist on the debate 's expert panel .