Facebook video now part of RNC investigation
http://www.thewesternstar.com/News/Local/2014-03-27/article-3666343/Facebook-video-now-part-of-RNC-investigation/1

A video circulating on Facebook has become part of an investigation into an alleged assault of a 14-year-old boy earlier this week .  At about 7:40 p.m. on Monday the Corner Brook Royal Newfoundland Constabulary received an anonymous report of an injured male youth near the Valley Mall .  The boy was taken to Western Memorial Regional Hospital were he was treated for non-life threatening injuries and released .  An RNC media report from Tuesday said that the investigation into the incident resulted in another 14-year-old boy being arrested and charged with assault causing bodily harm . The alleged assailant was later released into the custody of a parent .  Sometime after the incident , a 23-second video of the assault appeared on Facebook . A link to the video could still be accessed Thursday morning .  It shows a bigger male youth punching a smaller boy in the face . The victim tries to get away , but the alleged assailant pursues him and strikes him several more times before the boy falls to the ground . The beating continues with victim is on the ground  The incident looks like it was filmed in the parking garage at the Valley Mall . And a female can be heard laughing as the assault takes place .  Const . Scott Mosher , the RNC 's media relations officer , said Thursday morning that a copy of the video is now in the hands of investigators .  " When the initial complaint was made , ? I do n't think there was any sign of the video , " said Mosher in a phone interview conducted prior to him issuing a media release on the incident .  Mosher said police have not yet determined who shot the video or have anything concrete on what may have provoked the alleged assault .  The video has been shared more than 100 times with many people adding their thoughts to the comments section .  Some say the victim got what he deserved , while others speak out against the violent act . There are also comments that point to the attack being in retaliation for another action and some , disturbingly , a video like the one in question is quite rare , but is a sign of the times . He said we 're living in a society where people 's private lives are posted everywhere through photos and comments on social media sites like Facebook and Twitter .  " In terms of the investigation , " Mosher said the video " makes it visually a little more serious or obvious of what had transpired . "  He said in a normal investigation officers are dealing with words -- what one side has to say about the other .  " But whenever there 's video evidence , it 's certainly more compelling than the written word . "  Mosher said the fact someone would videotape an assault and do nothing to stop it is very concerning .  " We talk about in some of our school programs how people can take responsibility for violence . And one of the things discussed is not being a bystander . It 's being someone who takes action . "  Mosher said people who engage in violence do so because type of behaviour we 're trying to eradicate . "  The alleged attacker is scheduled to appear in provincial youth court on May 14 .  Comments  Comments  Your name*Email*Comment*  Recent comments  A concerned parent/grandmother  March 29 , 2014 - 08:17  OMG this is absolutely not acceptable ! What were people thinking watching this happen ! You are all cowards ! ! ! ! Had you stepped in the bully would know " we 're not gon na take it . " Shame shame on you all ... do n't let this ever happen again on your watch ! Be proud to be the first one to step forward and your " friends " will follow . Pray that the attacked teen is ok ... it could have very well ended differently .  This is utterly disgusting and heart wrenching . Why would someone do this , and as for the people that were there that taped it and watched your just at fault . No matter if this young boy did something or not he did not deserve this . This is at saying that its not all the parents fault either . If parents and teens had that open relationship were they could be open and honest with one another this would have never happened . To the teens that were there I hope in the future instead of watching someone get hurt you will be that one person to stand up and help someone out . I feel for that young boy and his family I hope that he is OK . I also feel bad for the bully because I know some where deep inside there might be a good young man with with just bad poor judgment . I hope that you get the help that is needed . I also hope that you grow a set and apologize to him and his family . Also the ones watching I hope that your apologize is in the future .  Wish they would post the parent 's names . No shame attached to anything any more . No honor in a family name , when I was growing up if your mother did n't yell at ya , your mother . So ya had 10 people trying to smarten you up instead of 2 .  From what I have heard there is much more to this story then just the assault . It is sad from all views . What I ca n't get is how someone can record this and do nothing about it . Also the kids involved are the same age .  I watched this video a few days ago and it upset me so much that i cant even begin to express my sadness but anger as well . I do nt understand why the bystanders did nt step in . Im really hoping that the bigger kid do get what he deserves because what really is the anti bullying law good for if people like him get away with it ? He couldve done some serious damage or worse ( it has happened ... ) .  " Which is exactly the type of behaviour we 're trying to eradicate . " Eradicate Violence , or giving youngsters ATTENTION ! PARENTS , put your smartphones down , and WAKE UP . All Day They are 14 . They will learn . End Provincial Government ( exhibit A ' Felix Collins " ) is a start to ending Bullying , and the general culture of revenge by social media ( exhibit b " Gerry Rogers " ) . They perpetuate it . End provincial government . End violence . Or are bloodsports like politics and retributive shitkickings in our DNA ? I only ask that all MHAs step down , and frig off , thats all .  Its so sad what the youth have come to these days . Makes you wonder what the state of the world will be like in 50 - 100 years . This is just a very sad look into the future of more and more serious problems .