MTV Movie Awards featured a topless Zac Efron, a treasure trove of ...
http://news.nationalpost.com/arts/mtv-movie-awards-featured-a-topless-zac-efron-a-treasure-trove-of-trailers-and-of-course-the-trophies

mtv movie awards featured a topless zac efron , a treasure trove of trailers and , of course , the trophies  last year , the mtv movie awards moved up its broadcast date from june to april to incorporate a summer movie plug-fest . sunday night 's show cemented that change , as clips from anticipated blockbusters debuted at the madcap ceremony .  in its 22nd year , the mtv movie awards show has become an important event for hollywood studios . and oh yes , there were some awards , too .  at last year 's show , which saw an average of 3.8 million viewers , up from 3.2 million for the previous year 's telecast , included new footage from iron man 3 and the world premiere of the hunger games : catching fire trailer , which was introduced by one of the films ' stars , liam hemsworth .  sure , an abundance of golden popcorn-shaped prizes were again presented for fun fair , like the award for best shirtless performance , which zac efron accepted , well , and the stars attached to them -- that really make the show .  andrew garfield , emma stone ( who will also appear in woody allen 's magic in the moonlight , july 25 ) and jamie foxx , star in the seventh installment of sony 's spider-man franchise , which kicks off the summer movie season on may 2 . the trio introduced a clip of the film showing spider-man ( garfield ) and the sparkling blue villain electro ( foxx ) battling in new york 's times square .  also expected to dominate at the box office , fox 's x-men : days of future past was touted with an intro by one of its new stars , ellen page , who will take on the role of shadowcat . the upcoming film , out may 23 , sees the x-men joining forces with their younger selves and introduces a number of new mutants -- blink , sunspot , warpath and bishop .  there to present the award for best fight was aaron taylor-johnson , the star of warner bros . ' godzilla , which opens showing the monster preparing to wreak havoc , aired before taylor-johnson appeared on stage .  seth rogen , dave franco and efron , who lead universal pictures ' comedy neighbours , out may 9 , also presented the award for best kiss together .  no clip was shown for disney-marvel 's opted against showing a clip of guardians of the galaxy , a bit of a superhero spoof set in space , this yea . but chris pratt , the star of the film , out august 1 , checked in at the show as well with a long speech encouraging viewers to vote for their favourite nominees online .  first-look footage from fox 's the fault in our stars , starring shailene woodley and ansel elgort , showed the beginnings of the onscreen couple 's romance in the heartfelt comedy .  mark wahlberg , who received the generation award at the show , touted his upcoming transformers : age of extinction , saying the paramount pictures ' flick would be the biggest movie of 2014 . some of the crew of the hit hbo show entourage grenier , jerry ferrara and kevin dillon reminded us that the entourage movie is being readied for 2015 .  starring in two possible summer hits , channing tatum will appear in both the buddy cop comedy 22 jump street , out june 13 , with jonah hill ( who picked up the best comedic performance award for the wolf of wall street ) , and sci-fi fantasy jupiter ascending , out july 18 , with mila kunis ( who scored the title of best villain for oz the great and powerful ) .  both kunis , looking very pregnant in a short , loose black dress , and hill presented tatum with his trailblazer award .  and not to be missed was josh hutcherson 's mention of philip seymour hoffman , who died on feb. 2 from a combination of heroin , cocaine and other drugs .  hoffman appeared in the hunger games : catching fire , which earned the evening 's top prize of movie of the year .  " if philip were here he would think this was really cool , " said hutcherson best male performance recipient .  " to have him in our movie was one of the coolest things , " hutcherson said . " we think about him every day on set . this definitely goes out to him as well . "  the hunger games : mockingjay -- part 1 will release later this year .  no mtv awards show would be complete without a few music numbers . ellie goulding sang beating heart , while zedd took the stage for find you . both tracks appear on the divergent soundtrack .  host conan o'brien kicked off the ceremony , which aired live from the nokia theatre , with a challenge to gain 50 celebrity cameos for his opening segment . and of course he came through with many stars like paul rudd and adam sandler , who have films expected in the coming months .  the mtv awards had some stiff competition from other networks on sunday night , including the latest installment of hbo 's popular game of thrones and the final season premiere of amc 's mad men .