Alamos Gold is no buy and hold stock
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/investment-ideas/alamos-gold-is-not-a-buy-and-hold-stock/article18530199/

Can you please re-visit Alamo Gold . It is difficult to pick a winner . Is it good idea to buy ETF of the juniors and/or seniors ?  Your opinion is greatly appreciated .  Thank you .  Vince  Hey Vince ,  Thanks for the assignment . And yes picking winners requires a lot of work but it can be done .  This will be the third time since 2009 that I explore the particulars associated with Alamos Gold Inc . The most recent analysis was conducted on June 28 , 2013 , on a request from Joyce . The shares were trading for $11.71 and she was was on a bottom fishing trip . The patterns that I examined indicated that the shares had been operating under a downtrend that started in November of 2012 and the death cross that formed in January of 2013 . There was n't a lot of evidence that a trend reversal was eminent and it was advised to confirm the bottom and keep her powder dry until there was greater visibility as to direction . the MACD and the RSI signalled a buy and the stock started to move higher . It had a nice run to a 52-week high of $17.86 by September but that was as good as it got . The shares then began another retreat and are now trading below $9.50 .  Another run at the charts will help identify signs that could help you with this investment .  The three-year chart reveals why investors should always book profits when they are available . AGI enjoyed a brief three month period where it generated gains for investors . After that the shares continued to sell off . In addition a death cross formed in December of 2013 and the shares have been meeting resistance along the 50-day moving average .  The six-month chart depicts the base that has been forming at $9.00 since February of 2014 . Also worth noting is the sell signal generated by the MACD and the RSI in mid January as the stock met resistance along the 50-day moving average . The momentum indicators did produce a buy signal in February as the shares bounced  The best way to approach AGI is to trade it for profit . Watch the charts for buy and sell signals that will help you capture opportunities and reduce risk . This is not a buy and hold investment .  You asked about investing in Exchange Traded Funds and on a fundamental basis it makes sense . You get diversification that you ca n't achieve with a single stock . What is important with an ETF is getting on the right ride . There are times to be in juniors , there are times to be in seniors , there are times to be in cash . You must pick the right sector at the right time .  Restrictions  All rights reserved . Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters . Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' Thomson Reuters ' and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @