Mother's Day ads trigger emotions, irrational spending
http://www.cbc.ca/news/business/mother-s-day-ads-trigger-emotions-irrational-spending-1.2632281

Related Stories  External Links  ( Note : CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links . )  Buying a gift for Mother 's Day can be an emotional shopping experience , and advertisers are using those emotions as leverage in their marketing campaigns .  In this 2013 ad , Google shows kids of all ages celebrating their mothers .  Ads , like Sport Chek 's Mother 's Day commercial from last year , can be more personal . In it , Canadian hockey star MeaghanMikkelson-Reid is engaged in strenuous training , while viewers hear a voice mail message from her mom .  At the other end of the spectrum , Johnson 's Baby launched this ad in time for Mother 's Day 2012 .  In a 2009 ad from Columbia , we see a classroom of kids making Mother 's Day cards . The teacher looks confused as a little boy writes what appears to be random letters and presses so hard with the pencil , it almost goes through the paper .  . He turns the paper over so the protruding letters spell " I love you " in Spanish , and his blind mother reads them with her fingers .  That commercial was for a Colombian telecommunications company . Like Google , phone companies have always profited from a surge of business as people reach out to mom on Mother 's Day .  And they 're not alone . Marketers of virtually any Mom-appropriate stuff share in the windfall .  In this ad from last year , we see mothers in various countries reading with their children . Then as the kids finally fall asleep , the type on the screen says , " She gave you the gift of reading . This Mother 's Day , give it back . "  Why are Mother 's Day marketers so eager to make us cry ? When we act out of emotion , we 're less rational , less likely to think beforehand , and less likely to be concerned with cost and practicality .  At that point , if an ad suggests we buy something for Mom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @