'What's gone is gone'
http://thechronicleherald.ca/novascotia/1222158-what-s-gone-is-gone

Mark Allison , 16 , who lost his right leg to cancer , is seen Friday with a prosthetic limb designed for swimming . ( CHRISTIAN LAFORCE/Staff )  Mark Allison is used to stares and sometimes being called " peg leg " or a " cripple . "  The 16-year-old Queens County boy is a child amputee . Mark was diagnosed with cancer at the age of three and lost his right leg ( below the knee ) to the disease about two months later .  He 's never let insults or the loss of his leg prevent him from leading an active life .  He uses one artificial limb for walking , basketball and long-boarding and a second waterproof one for swimming .  " It 's about what 's left that matters , " he said in an interview Friday at the War Amps Atlantic child amputee seminar in Halifax .  " What 's gone is gone . If you get over you being an amputee , you 're going to be the person that you want to be and "  Growing up in Hunts Point , near Liverpool , Mark would always be the first one out on the playground .  " As a kid I 've always been pushing myself to my limits , " he said .  " I would always be outside when I could be as a kid growing up and I would get some stares because I have to do some things differently like hang upside down on the monkey bars ... I had to do it differently than everybody else but I always got by ... and I just talked myself into doing whatever I thought I could , so whatever was possible , I did . "  Mark and Siobhan MacDonald , a 16-year-old from Mabou , are among 50 children from Atlantic Canada gathered for this weekend 's seminar .  Seminar topics include raising a child amputee , healthy living , dealing with teasing and staring and seeing the latest developments in artificial limbs .  Siobhan 's amputation is also above her right knee . She sports a multicoloured design on her artificial limb , rather part of her right hand and her left arm and with bones missing in her right leg . Her foot was also rotated a bit to the right . Her parents chose to amputate her right foot when she was two .  " I remember going to school and I was like , ' Why do they have all their limbs ? ' I was n't used to it , " she said .  Because she lives in such a small community and everyone knows the story of her early amputation , she has n't really dealt with a lot of questions , she said .  Siobhan sails using a Paralympic-class boat .  As well , she plays guitar with a specially made sleeve and pick crafted especially for her by a worker at the Nova Scotia Rehabilitation Centre .  In the past , she 's done able-bodied sailing .  Siobhan has set a goal to compete in the Paralympics in Tokyo , Japan , in 2020 .  " When you face anything you can either have a mindset as in , ' No I ca n't do it ' or just say ' what the heck , let 's try it . ' "  Both teens are members of the the War Amps child amputee ( CHAMP ) program .  The program offers support services to amputees and their families and provides financial assistance for artificial limbs and recreational devices .