Why Quebec is closed for business
http://www.macleans.ca/economy/business/why-quebec-business-is-closed/

It 's been a little more than a month since the Liberal government of Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard released its belt-tightening budget , and since then everyone from movie producers and doctors to teachers and mayors has griped about the cuts it promises . They should n't be surprised . Couillard campaigned on a pledge to fix Quebec 's " economic fiasco . " But a new report from the C.D. Howe Institute offers a stark reminder of how difficult that task will be .  The report , authored by Philip Cross , the former chief economist at Statistics Canada , shows the extent to which the economies of Ontario , Quebec and the Maritimes now rely on public sector versus private sector investment for growth . Condensed version : a whole honking lot . Investment spending refers to money spent on structures , machinery and equipment , and since 2000 , the report notes , public sector investment as a share of GDP has nearly doubled in Quebec to almost six per cent . At the same time , business investment -- you know , . That 's put Quebec near the bottom of the pack , alongside Ontario , and a notch above New Brunswick and Nova Scotia . " Business investment is the lifeblood of economic growth , " Cross wrote in an opinion piece . " It determines what the economy will look like years from now , and how competitive its workers will be . "  Of course , to have business investment , you 've got to have businesses . And that 's where Quebec faces serious problems that run far deeper than any single austerity budget can hope to tackle . In December , Statistics Canada released a largely overlooked research paper that examined the rates at which new businesses have been joining and leaving the marketplace in each province . The creation of new firms and the destruction of old ones , through consolidation or closure , is key to a vibrant economy , bringing in new ideas and innovations and forcing existing businesses to pick up their game . You can probably guess where Quebec ranked , but I 'll tell you anyway . From 2000 to " than Quebec . In fact , in the manufacturing , retail , transportation and finance sectors , more companies went away than were created . No other province had that level of " destruction " without the customarily accompanying " creative . "  It gets worse . Another report from a few months ago , the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor , measured the levels of entrepreneurialism across Canada . It did so by looking at the percentage of working-age adults who are either engaged in setting up a business or who own a wage-paying business that 's existed for less than 42 months . On that front , too , Quebec came dead last , with an entrepreneurship rate of 9.6 per cent , compared to 11.9 per cent in Ontario and close to 19 per cent in Alberta .  Source : Global Entrepreneurship Monitor  Sylvain Carle , an entrepreneur in Montreal who 's started several companies , recently shared an anecdote with the Montreal Gazette that sums up Quebec 's sluggish start-up culture . While attending a conference at Stanford University , a speaker had asked how own companies , and 105 hands went up , since some were multi-preneurs . When Carle asked the same question to a similar-sized audience in Montreal a few weeks later , five hands went up .  It does n't take an advanced degree in rocketry to know why all this is the case . For decades Quebec businesses have been plagued with repeated bouts of separation anxiety and the constant irritant of the province 's language police . The province punishes businesses with some of the highest taxes in North America , yet it has rung up a $2.4-billion deficit and a debt load equal to half its GDP , the highest in the country . When not arbitrarily overriding the rights of shareholders to protect underperforming Quebec companies , the government has flip-flopped on its attitude toward resource development . In short , it 's an economic environment layered with uncertainty , instability and state interference .  For the longest time , the solution from the Quebec government to its stagnant business environment was more Quebec government , in the form of state-sponsored funds doling out cheques to past March , the Caisse de d ? p ? t et placement du Qu ? bec pension fund , that bastion of economic nationalism , joined with Desjardins Group to create a fund to pump $230 million into small and medium-sized enterprises , having already distributed $190 million to 186 other companies through an earlier fund . And yet the level of business creation is stuck in neutral .  This is what Couillard faces . He 's said all the right things about tackling Quebec 's fiscal crisis : " The time for cosmetic changes is gone , " he said in his throne speech in May . " We must act firmly and decisively . And we will . " His far bigger challenge remains to make Quebec a place where entrepreneurs would want to set up shop . The best way he can do that is to get his government out of the way .  Filed under :  Advertisement  About this author  Jason Kirby is a columnist and business editor at Maclean 's . Working in Toronto and Vancouver he 's covered money has been nominated for three National Magazine Awards .  Why Quebec is closed for business  " Statistics Canada released a largely overlooked research paper that examined the rates at which new businesses have been joining and leaving the marketplace in each province ... "  It 's not just Quebec . When the last manufacturing sector leaves Canada , so to will our pensions , health-care , and education . ... And then the doctors , engineers , technologists , ... , will leave . Welcome to Harp 's future , when Canada finally becomes nothing but fetchers ' of trees , crude , and water , with only Harps rich 1%'ers left .  Oh yes it is all Harper 's fault . Ignore what the various provincial governments have been doing ( which has a bigger effect on the decisions of businesses ) .  For the most part , the federal government has little day to day influence on Canadians -- it is provincial governments that are the bigger factor in our day to day lives . As this article points out -- duh .  hold any significant property in Quebec or east . Even reducing holdings of Ontario companies as I just sold one the other day .  Why is simple , they lose investors money and the system is run by economic idiots . Lets talk USD or Yuan , as they are WORLD currencies and prices are based on these currencies and nit small Canada .  Say I invested $100,000 in Ontario/Quebec/PEI/NS/NL a year ago . Say I even make a 5% profit which is very rare . So I have $105,000 less $2000 in taxes for a $103,000 in money . But wait , CAD money depreciated so in USD I have $95,800 , a whooping $4,200 ( 4.2% ) loss in purchasing power .  Hits people in food , utility , gasoline and other costs too , so they have less to spend on each others jobs .  And what drives it ? Simple , govmint debt . No legitimate lenders are lending Canada the hundreds of billions of govmint debt , BoC creates the electronic counterfeit out of thin air to devalue money and in the debt .  Fact is we have uncommon good bloated , wasteful , bailouts , other peoples money for nothing of value and debt to the unborn for a madness of financially irresponsible governments .  Hey , our young ca n't afford family homes or kids buy single bed condos , as we are all too busy supporting govmint kids and well conditioned not to question our governments on the wastes .  Its going to be at least as bad as the 70s , 1969 home went from $14,800 to 1979 price of $97,000 .... hyper-stagflation and govmint will lie about real inflation . But fact is Canada is going to be devalued and why I now invest all new moneys , and some old ones too into US and International . Getting far better returns too .  Until economic sanity and fairness return to Ontario east and BC , its just going to get worse . In depreciating CAD , my foreign ROI in the last 8 months in terms of CAD is 7.5% x ( 14.4% ( gain ) + 4.34% ( div ) + 7.5%  In fact , given the poor performances of many oil/resource stocks , I would say even the west is failing , and why the last 9 stock purchases were all outside of Canada .  Hey , jobs go south as US and Mexico do n't have the hidden and real tax bloats to support , and as a result can work for less and have more . Investments go south for the same reason , else union and governemtn greed for a return above inflation plus taxes so you do n't lose vale .  Now if my wife let us move out of Canada , I could save a whole lot on taxes too .... as I hate supporting so many freeloaders in Canada that punish productive non-govmint working people at the till and the pay tax greeds .  Canadians have to earn $1,400,000 to pay $700,000 in taxes , $300,000 in fair interest , to buy a $400,000 home that is $200,000 in labour , fees , tariffs and other taxes to build the tax-debt out $200,000 home .  Mexican earns $200,000 to pay $40,000 home . ( Also pays a whole lost less in city/utility/education taxes too ) .  American earns $360,000 to pay $60,000 in taxes , $50,000 in interest ( tax adjusted ) to buy a $250,000 home . ( Also pays a whole lost less in city/utility/education taxes too ) .  My buddy in USA had his roof done , $6800 , me , its costing me $12,800 for near identical home . As in Canada were are taxed like slaves . But hey , its $6000 I do n't spend on someone else 's job . Hey , raise my dentists taxes , I get the bill and have less to spend on other peoples jobs . With devalued money , I have less to spend on other peoples jobs to make the goods and services .  Reality is , we require uncommunicative inflated wage demands to live in Canada , so Energizer looks as Montreal as a high cost , money losing venture ... and is going to close it . Same reasons Caterpiller , Kelloggs , Heinz , Bombardier and a lot of others are laying the economics insanity of socialist-statism corruption in Canada and how much it really costs them for this waste , Canada is on a downhill ride . BTW , I am a 1 or 2%er ..... retired early .  Want jobs ? Get some economic sanity . Look for win-win-win and not win-lose-lose .... no one wants to play with losers to lose .  You are right , as a 2%er Canadian investor , if the core business is in any of BC , Manitoba , Ontario , Quebec , PEI , NB , NL I simply do NOT invest . Reasons are simple as very few make value for investors . Sure , they return 2% dividends for some , but money was devalued 7.5% in the same period , a 6% or more value loss after taxes .  If you as a investor ca n't get a return rate of ( inflation+currency devaluation+taxes ) then you are negative value investing . If I invested $1000 last year , but takes $1075 to buy the same stuff this year , a $1020 2% return does n't cut it .  Its why I know StatsCan LIES about real inflation . You can see the costs rise in housing materials , appliances , autos , iron , food and more ... companeis get hit with this too evaporating their already pathetic returns to shareholders and thats before union and tax greed costs . Its why Energizer , Heinz , Caterpillar , Bombardier and a lot of others are laying off or closing up .  You bet its not just Quebec , I do not buy ANY debt instruments below 10% ( which today is zero ) , I do not invest unless I can get total returns of 10% or more as that is the value break even amount .  Rich get richer as they do the math and account for inflation and currency value . Canada is a depreciating tax inflated economy of debt fraud .  I can handle CRA annual audits , they see 3 times the earnings and love to snoop for investment tips .... from this offshore " mass painted " cheater that does n't cheat . 3 audits in 10 years , .  I am even declining western Canada investments as weakness is like cancer , it eventually takes out the the whole host . Canada ca n't afford the govmint bloat , waste and other peoples money for nothing greed any longer , its downhill here in . With gains below inflation , Canada is a LOSER until it gets more economic fairness .  I hear you , I have worked overseas for over 5 years , and the labour/materials to build a small Villa/Home , lets say , in Antigua , for example , is about 3 times less than it is here ! , and I 'm talking Quality built . It 's amazing how much our ( Canadian ) gov't screws everybody over here .  With the sheer amount of the Billions upon Billions of annual tax dollars that the Canadian ( Fereal/Provincial ) Govt 's steal from us , there is no reason at all why all Canadians could n't enjoy better health-care for their families , free Education , 100% dental-care , ...  We can start with , ahem , the separatists and about French being in peril and English being far too big for its britches . Their egos , and their egos alone , are keeping us chained to the bottom . Riots could n't stop us . Wars could n't stop us . But the threat of separation ( not the least bit helped by the return of Gilles Duceppe at the last second ) wrecked a once-powerful metropolis and turned it into a shell of its former self .  Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again .  Sign In / Sign Up  With your existing account from  With an email account  Commenters who signed up before June 26th , 2014 will have to reregister on our new , social-friendly login system . The good news and you 're welcome to use the same email address .  Almost Done !  Please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #socialRegistrationForm * * **27;128;TOOLONG * * **26;157;TOOLONG * * **30;185;TOOLONG * * **29;217;TOOLONG * By clicking " Create Account " , I confirm that I have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that I agree to be bound by them .