Graham Fraser: Public servants are proud of bilingualism
http://ottawacitizen.com/news/politics/graham-fraser-public-servants-are-proud-of-bilingualism

columnist kelly egan 's comments on the federal approach to official languages calls for a response .  egan thinks offering services to the public in both languages is a " fine idea in theory , " but finds it excessive for somebody to check whether the government lives up to its obligations and for citizens to be able to file complaints when they think their rights are being violated or even ( yes , the horror ! ) go to court when an organization fails to correct the situation after multiple infractions .  egan describes a bleak world of frustration , resentment and unhappiness . those were the stories i heard when i was a journalist . however , since becoming commissioner of official languages , i have been pleasantly surprised by the number of public servants , both english- and french-speaking , who are proud to have learned the other language , see language skills as a professional competency that enables them to understand the country and are committed to providing services in both languages . it is part of their pride in being a value , not a burden , and i have found that many public servants agree with me . it is an integral part of the federal public service and enables every employee to contribute to the fullest of his or her ability . through the official languages act and the canadian charter of rights and freedoms , it is also expressed as a series of rights for all citizens . and rights are meaningless if the government may choose to ignore them . so yes , my staff occasionally monitors key elements of bilingual service ; citizens can file complaints with my office ; and , in the extremely rare cases where the government proves intractable , it can be taken to court .  kelly egan and i agree on one thing : the way the official languages act is implemented does not always work well . not everyone arrives in the public service already bilingual , and language training by federal institutions is often too little and offered too late in a public servant 's career . in some departments , people are sent for intensive language training position , rather than having them build language skills over a few years as they work . there need to be more opportunities to strengthen language skills at university , and language training must be integral to a public servant 's career plans , not something done at the last minute .  and yet , despite these deficiencies , literally tens of thousands of bilingual positions within the public service are occupied by anglophones . nationally , francophones and anglophones occupy positions in a proportion that roughly mirrors their demographic weight , including at the executive levels .  about that $1.1 billion over five years the federal government spends on bilingualism that egan wants to see converted into asphalt : most of it is earmarked for students . english schools in quebec , french schools outside quebec , immersion schools and programs all profit from this investment in canada 's future .  to suggest that soldiers are dying for lack of treatment because funds are spent on the country 's official languages is an exaggeration , to put it mildly .  forty-five years after the adoption of policies rightly remains an important and controversial issue . i will continue to participate in this national conversation on october 7 , 2014 , when i present my annual report , which includes a recommendation on language training .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .