Back to school dilemma: braids for boys
http://www.cbc.ca/news/aboriginal/back-to-school-dilemma-braids-for-boys-1.2753879

it 's a conversation they 've been having a lot lately . hubbard says that since quannah started to grow his hair out , people have begun mistaking him for a girl and he recently asked if he could cut it .  she asked her son to take some time and think about it before making such a big decision .  " a lot of men in my family wear their hair long so i understood that to be a source of our strength as a people . also the historical context that for a long time that was n't allowed that children upon going to residential school had to have their hair cut . so i wanted my son to have long hair . "  but she also worried because he was teased and bullied in the past at a different school in saskatoon .  " i felt really sad for him and for that fear of being laughed at , for being singled out for how he looks and how he chooses to wear his hair . "  so hubbard her post quickly generated a lively discussion from other first nation parents who were struggling with similar issues .  azure johnson is one of them . her twin sons are six years old and traditional pow wow dancers .  she says they sometimes ask to cut their hair but she thinks it 's important for them to wear it long .  " it 's a sign of showing others my culture and that i 'm proud of who i am and i want my boys to be proud of who they are . "  johnson says she was n't raised with that culture so it 's especially important for her children .  " as they get older , they 'll be able to withstand the stuff they 're going to deal with because they 're going to deal with racism and stereotypes and discrimination and ignorance . if i start teaching them to embrace their culture , maybe it wo n't be so tough for them as it was for me . "  terri moore wrote : i allowed my oldest son the wear his it was natural and was to our tradition , until he ( my son ) started to cry when people would mistake him being a girl . still i continued and it came to a point where he begged it to be cut . once cut a happier child . i believe its up to the kid whether he wants his hair cut or left long and we should n't push our traditions on the kids .  hubbard , who is also a filmmaker , says the debate has inspired her and quannah to make a documentary on the subject and at least for now , quannah says he will keep his braids .  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .