PEI businessman gets bail pending appeal of sex conviction
http://thechronicleherald.ca/novascotia/1233801-pei-businessman-gets-bail-pending-appeal-of-sex-conviction

p.e.i. businessman gets bail pending appeal of sex conviction  steve bruce court reporterpublished september 3 , 2014 - 11:00am  average :  your rating : noneaverage : 1 ( 2 votes )  charlottetown businessman stephen taweel , who was sentenced last month in halifax to 28 months in prison for sexual assault , has been granted bail pending the outcome of his appeal . ( andrew vaughan / the canadian press )  a prominent prince edward island developer is free on bail pending an appeal of his conviction and sentence on a charge of sexually assaulting a girl in nova scotia in 1991 .  stephen nicholas taweel , 55 , of charlottetown was found guilty in february of taking advantage of a 14-year-old girl in dartmouth . he was sentenced aug. 14 in nova scotia supreme court in halifax to 28 months in prison .  the crown consented to taweel 's bail application in the nova scotia court of appeal last week .  justice david farrar released taweel on a $20,000 recognizance with two sureties . taweel must follow an any contact with the complainant , now 37 .  taweel is president of taweel developments inc. and taweel construction ltd. and chairman of the charlottetown downtown residents association .  he was represented by halifax lawyer mark knox at trial but has hired toronto lawyer brian greenspan for his appeal , which will be heard next march .  taweel was found guilty of having sexual intercourse with the girl without her consent at his sister 's house in dartmouth on three occasions . one of the encounters also involved oral sex .  taweel was in his early 30s when he met the nova scotia girl on a beach in p.e.i. , where her family has a cottage . she testified that taweel warned her not to tell anyone about their relationship . she said she felt pressured to comply with his sexual demands .  the legal age of sexual consent was 14 in 1991 . taweel claimed the girl told him she was 16 . he said they engaged in consensual sexual activity on the island , but he denied having sex with her in dartmouth . taweel said his conviction should be quashed and replaced with a verdict of not guilty or a new trial ordered .  taweel claimed the trial judge erred in law by applying " starkly different " standards of scrutiny to the evidence presented by the crown and the defence .  the judge also made a mistake in imposing federal prison time , taweel said , by overemphasizing deterrence and failing to consider the rehabilitation of the offender.