Cardy, Gallant spar over Nazi parody video tweeted by NDP candidate
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/new-brunswick/new-brunswick-votes-2014/cardy-gallant-spar-over-nazi-parody-video-tweeted-by-ndp-candidate-1.2771422

Related Stories  The final leaders ' debate before the Sept. 22 election spurred on several heated exchanges on Thursday , including a testy exchange between NDP Dominic Cardy and Liberal Leader Brian Gallant .  Gallant demanded Cardy apologize over a YouTube video that was posted by Tony Sekulich , the NDP 's candidate in Portland-Simonds and former director of communications for the party , on his Twitter account .  The video was a parody of the movie Downfall , which looked at the final days of Adolf Hitler 's Nazi regime in Germany . But the video had subtitles under the actors as if the Nazis were Gallant and other Liberals .  NDP candidate Tony Sekulich linked to a parody video on his Twitter account in which the Liberals were compared to Nazis . Sekulich later deleted the tweet . ( Twitter )  ? The Liberals found the video " extremely offensive " and stressed how Gallant 's grandfather was put in a Nazi concentration camp for helping Jewish families during the Holocaust .  In a terse exchange between Gallant and Gallant said he did not find the parody video funny , at which point Cardy offered to shake the Liberal leader 's hand .  Gallant did n't accept the overture and replied , " Are you apologizing on behalf of your party for the Nazi reference or are you making a stunt . "  Cardy said the handshake was a " mutual apology " for Sekulich 's actions and accused Gallant of a " stunt . "  The exchanges were not any less testy at other points in the debate .  On Thursday , Sekulich removed the link to the video and then apologized .  The Sekulich tweet was the second candidate-related controversy that Cardy had to deal with on Thursday .  Earlier in the day , Kent South NDP candidate Paul Musgrave said he had regretted his decision to run for the party because Cardy 's position on shale gas did not far enough .  Musgrave , who entered the raise to campaign against the shale gas industry , asked for the NDP leader to toughen his stance .  In the context an attack . I shared a video without thinking of that and I apologize .  Debate excluded Greens , People 's Alliance  Earlier in the debate , the leaders tossed around accusations of their rivals flip-flopping on campaign promises .  " But if I may , Dominic , you 've changed your position on fracking about nine times . You 've actually change twice during this campaign , " Gallant said at one point during the debate .  Progressive Conservative Leader David Alward came to the NDP leader 's defence by criticizing Gallant for his own fluidity on positions .  " This is rich coming from Mr. Gallant who 's changed his position about five times during the campaign , " Alward said .  The sharp exchanges between the debates were limited only to three parties , however .  The CTV debate , which was held at St. Thomas University , excluded Green Party Leader David Coon and People 's Alliance Leader Kris Austin .  " I think I have a right to debate just as any other leader of a registered party  Austin 's position had received earlier support from university professors in New Brunswick .  " STU 's decision to accept the request of CTV to host a debate which limits the number of leaders to three , as opposed to all five , flies in the face of the true spirit of democracy , " states Jean Sauvageau , the president of the Federation of New Brunswick Faculty Associations , in a letter to St. Thomas University president Dawn Russell .  A STU spokesperson said the matter of CTV inviting only three of the leaders was discussed at the university . But the university decided it is n't STU 's place to play a role in determining the participants in the CTV event .  Note : The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . By submitting your comments , you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .