The Ontario government must take action to protect co-op students
http://www.thestar.com/opinion/commentary/2014/10/06/the_ontario_government_must_take_action_to_protect_coop_students.html

Two weeks ago 17-year-old Adam Keunen was killed in an accident while on a high-school co-op placement . Adam 's death marks the third death of a student engaged in work-integrated learning in the last 10 months in Ontario . Like the deaths of Aaron Murray and Wayne Affleck , this situation raises serious questions about workplace protections for students who are increasingly participating in work-integrated learning programs at high schools , colleges and universities .  Over the past decade work-integrated learning has emerged as a key part of Ontario 's secondary and post-secondary education system . While co-operative education , internships , and other training programs for students have enormous advantages , they lack appropriate oversight and regulation by our provincial government and educational institutions . The Courts , academic researchers , and the Ministry of Labour have all recognized that students and young workers are particularly vulnerable in the workplace . Young people at the start of their careers often do not have the experience or knowledge to identify or avoid potentially hazardous situations .  In Ontario , students engaged in unpaid work-integrated Safety Act or the Employment Standards Act , 2000 . Under the Workplace Safety and Insurance Act students receive protections only in certain circumstances . This lack of regulatory protection may have contributed to the deaths of these young men , and closing these loopholes could help prevent similar accidents in the future .  Premier Kathleen Wynne should address this situation by taking the following steps .  First , she should appoint an independent third party to conduct a full review of work-integrated learning programs in Ontario at the secondary and post-secondary levels . This review must critically assess the appropriateness of the work being performed by co-op students , whether these programs have sufficient oversight , and whether or not students are being given sufficient training in preparation for their placements . This type of review is not without precedence in Canada ; the Alberta government launched a similar review in the wake of death of Andy Ferguson , who died while completing an academic internship at a radio station .  Second , students need to be treated as de facto employees and extended greater protections with and workers ' compensation . The Ontario government has introduced the Stronger Workplaces for a Stronger Economy Act . This bill would give co-op students the protections under the health and safety act that other workers already enjoy . The government should move quickly to pass this bill , along with MPP Peggy Sattler 's Greater Protection for Interns and Vulnerable Employees Act , which would grant co-op students basic protections under the Employment Standards Act . If Ontario is going to continue to expand work-integrated learning programs then students and their parents need to be confident that they possess some modicum of protection while in the workplace .  Third , the Ministry of Labour must begin proactive inspections of workplaces where students are engaged in work-integrated learning programs . The Ministry of Labour needs to work with other ministries , secondary and post-secondary institutions , organized labour , and student groups to develop an inspection program that ensures that employers are taking the necessary precautions to protect students who are in the workplace .  We hope that if these recommendations are implemented we will see a reduction in common in this province .