Will the Edmonton Oilers end up trading Martin Marincin?
http://edmontonjournal.com/sports/hockey/nhl/cult-of-hockey/will-the-edmonton-oilers-end-up-trading-martin-marincin

in their press conferences on sunday , both edmonton oilers general manager craig mactavish and head coach dallas eakins were very careful to emphasize that the final cuts made by the team represented a snapshot in time and that they should n't be misrepresented as more than that .  " this is n't permanent , " mactavish said . " this is to start the year . there are always going to be injuries , there is always going to be performance issues . it 's not that we ca n't unwind ; the only decision we really could n't unwind would be demoting darnell nurse . "  " it 's not a final blow , " added eakins , after emphasizing the extreme disappointment of some players . " i think that 's the hardest thing to get through to the guys today , that everybody thinks the team was picked today . well , the team was picked for game 1 . after game 1 things change . "  both of them are right , of course . it would be a a reversible choice made before a single nhl game had been played . but the decision to demote martin marincin to the minor leagues puts an exclamation point on the fact that there is a logjam of young defencemen on the left side of the depth chart , and that marincin may be on the outside of that group looking in long-term .  there are three exceptional young left-shooting defencemen that competed for nhl jobs in training camp , and marincin had an advantage in two areas : age and nhl experience . his disadvantage is that in their respective draft years nurse and oscar klefbom were more highly-regarded , and that their eventual ceiling based on their individual skills could well be higher :  those advantages matter more right now than they will at any point in the future ; with each passing day and game they become less important because the gap narrows . the difference between a 22-year-old and a 19-year-old is bigger than the difference between a 23-year-old and 20-year-old because the biggest leaps are made at the youngest ages .  the oilers could a difficult thing for a team hoping to turn a corner to do . andrew ference has three years left on his contract , while nikita nikitin has two ; both guys can also play on the right side but there is at most one spot over there between jeff petry ( one-year deal ) , mark fayne ( four-year deal ) and justin schultz ( one-year deal , but the organization clearly loves him like a son ) .  the point here is that it 's very , very easy to imagine a scenario where the organization talks itself into seeing marincin as redundant . there are lots of bodies at the position , and while someone like me might feel that marincin 's body of work ( both training camp and last season ) indicates that he 's a better player right now than klefbom ( excellent in many ways , the swede trails marincin significantly in terms of decision-making and use of his stick to defend ) , that does n't matter if the folks running the team feel that marincin does n't have a discernible edge , that might not matter , but the oilers are not a really good team ; they 're a team with needs in many areas . marincin will have value league-wide ; he 's cheap , has a range of skills and has proven an ability to handle nhl-level competition . we also know the vancouver canucks asked for him when they were shopping cory schneider .  edmonton could well find itself in a position where it has a chance at adding a significant player , but needs to send back somebody both cheap and with real upside . there are n't a lot of guys on the roster who fit that description , and even fewer in positions the oilers might think they can afford to subtract from .  this is all hypothetical , of course , and the situation could change in any number of unforeseeable ways as the season goes on . but the oilers are going to have to make a decision on their blue line in the not-too-distant future , and right now it 's pretty obvious where the team sees marincin relative to to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .