In defence of women over 30
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/manitoba/in-defence-of-women-over-30-1.2828770

in defence of women over 30  on the left , what actor renee zellweger looked like on the red carpet in beverly hills in october 2014 . on the right , what she looked like in september 2011 . ( frazer harrison , mike coppola/getty images )  i bought some pants , and they were n't the black ones . they were the snappy electric blue ones . because i 've decided that being in my forties does n't mean i have to give up on being noticed .  i mean it : i 've had it up to my crow-footed eyeballs with wearing black 24/7 and living life as the invisible woman , just because i was born before the advent of the internet and remember anna paquin as that little girl in the piano , pre-sookie stackhouse .  yes , i get that we live in a youth-dominated culture . you would have to be blind , deaf and a kardashian not to know .  i mean , when taylor swift can put out an album with her birth year face , you know the young'uns are ruling the roost . never mind that whole push a few years back that said that 40 is the new 30 . yeah , right . and cellulite is the new black .  the fact is this whole obsession with youth ; particularly feminine youth , mystifies me .  what is so much better about lacking experience , discretion , and laugh lines ? why is it that a butt you can bounce a quarter off of and breasts that have n't yet become acquainted with a waistline still trump every other female attribute ?  i assume it 's the same thing that makes ad companies choose prepubescent girls in hyper-sexualized outfits to sell us almost everything , while the only thing women over 40 are peddling are adult diapers and life insurance .  even if older women miraculously appear on magazine covers , they are : a ) famous and b ) air-brushed to kingdom come , as if wrinkles were an affront to polite society . craziness .  why is it that in 2014 , women of still regularly relegated to the background , like so many bruised bananas in the great fruit bowl of life ?  why can men be seen as compelling and powerful , no matter their age ? sean connery is almost 80 , and women still think he 's all that and a bag of chips . who decided it does n't work that way for women ? why is it the law of toyland that we automatically become less attractive and less noticeable once we hit 30 ?  are n't canadian men educated , liberated and aware of the perks of appreciating women who are less ... perky ? after all , these women have careers , homes , vehicles and can tell the difference between a cabernet and a shiraz .  or are older females the societal equivalent of broccoli ? are we passed over just because canadian men have been conditioned to want ( youthful ) eye candy instead ? really ? that feels very high school to me . junior high school , even . and i do n't think anyone wants to go back there poor face .  a talented actor who won an oscar for her work , ms zellweger is a beautiful and charismatic woman with a goofy grin and the tendency to look as if she 's about to burst out laughing . which is why i was absolutely horrified when i saw the inimitable miz zee online recently , looking like she 'd been dragged backwards through several botox clinics .  no more squinty eyes , pink cheeks and lopsided grin . she is now a near-perfect , expressionless canvas , who attributes it to " ... living a different , happy , more fulfilling life . " uh huh . on that basis , the dalai lama should look like brad pitt .  call me mr. magoo , but ms z. 's had plastic surgery , and lots of it . do n't get me wrong : i believe renee zellweger ( anyone , for that matter ) can do whatever the heck she wants to herself -- ' wants ' being the operative term . i simply have a hard time believing that she has erased every .  it seems to me that the logical assumption is that this already-beautiful woman is scared of looking her age . i guess no matter how talented , beautiful and well-known you are , it means nothing if you are n't on the sunny side of 30 .  and that 's what bugs me .  if someone like renee zellweger feels insecure enough to endure surgery just to look marginally younger , then what chance does jo doe have to feel comfortable in her own ( less-taut ) skin ? if money , talent and fame ca n't buy confidence , i can guarantee you credit card debt , endless housework and the stress of raising children sure wo n't .  trust me : it 's not that i picked the blue pants because i 'm trying to look younger . it 's just that i do n't want to be handed a bill of goods that tells me that in order to be accepted in society , i have to resign myself to being ignored . i refuse to fade quietly into the background , at cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .