Montreal will extend project to recycle polystyrene
http://montrealgazette.com/news/local-news/montreal-will-extend-project-to-recycle-polystyrene

montreal will extend project to recycle polystyrene  fran ? ois beauchesne of polyform examines some of the styrofoam collected at the st. patrick eco centre in lasalle during a press conference in montreal , on thursday , november 27 , 2014 . peter mccabe / montreal gazette  most people know it by the brand name styrofoam , that white foam packaging that comes with most mail-order products , or is used in disposable coffee cups .  for the most part , polystyrene ends up in the trash , taking up precious space in landfills , as the product is made up of 98 per cent air , and two per cent plastic .  now the city of montreal is expanding a program to allow residents to recycle the foam . for at least the next five years , the ecocentre in lasalle will be accepting any plastic material denoted with the number 6 on its packaging . that includes the aforementioned packaging and cups , but also yogourt containers , clear plastic boxes used to hold fruits and vegetables , and even razors city 's curbside program .  r ? al m ? nard , the executive committee member in charge of environmental matters said so far , only the lasalle ecocentre has enough space to collect the material , but the ecocentre now being built in st-laurent could also collect the material when it opens next year .  " we could also look at collecting it curbside , but we have n't gotten there yet , " m ? nard said .  montreal is not alone in offering collection of polystyrene .  elsewhere in canada , 181 cities and towns offer curbside collection for rigid polystyrene , like yogourt containers , and 45 municipalities will pick up foam packaging . roughly another 40 offer depot programs like the what is being offered in the lasalle ecocentre .  the city provided 2.5 tonnes of polystyrene in a year-long pilot project with the canadian plastics industry association that began last year .  " the problem is that everyone here in north america thinks about recycling in terms of cost , " said fran ? ois beauchesne , the vice-president which recycles the materials and produces finished products for use in road construction , and in building materials .  he explained that other polystyrene producers recycle their material , but polyform is the only company partnering with the city for this program . the process does n't save polyform any money , but the company said it feels a responsibility to reduce its carbon footprint .  polyform has implemented similar programs at the ecocentre in granby , where its head office is located , and in sherbrooke .  beauchesne said his competitors generally recycle their own finished products and do n't go collecting from the public .  he said that when his trucks deliver their orders , they make a run to furniture companies , like sears , and to the ecocentres to collect used foam in order for it to be recycled .  the company collects about seven tonnes of the material per day , so only a tiny fraction of that now comes from montreal .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .