PKP and the PQ: Get ready for a weird year, Canada
http://ipolitics.ca/2014/11/27/pkp-and-the-pq-get-ready-for-a-weird-year-canada/

PKP and the PQ : Get ready for a weird year , Canada  Politics , like nature , abhors a vacuum . Within hours of Doug Ford announcing that he was not running for the leadership of the Ontario Progressive Conservatives , Pierre Karl Peladeau confirmed that he will be a candidate for the leadership of the Parti Quebecois .  So any journalists out there who were worrying that Canadian politics was going to run short of crazy in 2015 can rest easy -- and start uploading images of Peladeau 's separatist fist-pump from the last Quebec election campaign .  The announcements were as different as the two men themselves . Ford 's was designed to remind Ontarians that his family is a dynasty , dammit , so please pay attention . He convened a full-court press conference on the steps of his family business , Deco , to announce that he is not running ... in this race . For now .  " We had a good ride with the press . I look forward to working with you for the next assembled press : Maybe Doug forgot that last year he said of journalists that " 80 per cent of them are nasty son of a guns " . No use dwelling on the past , though -- you 've got to move forward , as brother Rob would say . )  In contrast , Peladeau 's announcement displayed the self-assurance of a man accustomed to getting attention without even asking for it -- just because he is PKP . Peladeau was giving a talk at the Universit ? de Montr ? al , musing about such things as imposing a toll on the St. Lawrence Seaway to generate revenues for an independent Quebec . When asked by a student whether he would run for the leadership , he nonchalantly said that he 'd be picking up his nomination papers that afternoon .  Granted , the ' impromptu ' statement was carried live on Radio Canada ; rumours had swirled all morning that he 'd announce his entry into the race . Why do it there ? Never one to underestimate his own importance , Peladeau replied simply that " decisions have important implications for their respective races , and for provincial and federal politics . Had Ford run for the PC leadership , he would have imported the penny-pinching populism that characterized his campaign for Toronto mayor , polarizing the debate with more moderate candidates -- Christine Elliott in particular -- and splitting the party along ideological lines . More fire and brimstone is the last thing many PC rank-and-file want ; they 're still smarting from their defeat this spring , thanks in large part to Tim Hudak 's zeal to fire 100,000 government employees .  As the Liberals double down on austerity , disgruntled Quebeckers are looking elsewhere . Perhaps they forget that Peladeau is far more right-of-center than the party he is seeking to lead -- and that he never met a union he did n't lock out .  On a personal level , Ford running against Elliott also would have been awkward ; she is the widow of former minister of Finance Jim Flaherty -- a long-time Ford family friend who publicly teared up when talking about the personal troubles facing Rob Ford . it took him close to five minutes of praising the other candidates to actually say the words . CP24 's political commentator remarked that it was almost as though he thought it up on the spot . The twitterati were less kind , many chirping that it 's the kiss of death for Elliott 's campaign .  It probably is n't : Like it or not , Ford Nation is part of the PC party , and all the candidates will be vying for their votes . Elliott ca n't afford to turn them away ; other candidates , in particular Barrie MP Patrick Brown , are selling memberships like hotcakes . How those voters are incorporated into the mix , and whether Ford will actually hit the hustings with Elliott , remains to be seen . It 's also highly possible that Ford will run as a candidate for MPP in the next election , slated for 2018 -- and if the party loses that one , expect Ford to make a move on the leadership at that time .  In Quebec , Peladeau says his candidacy has " Even though many blame his pro-separatist statements for losing the PQ the last election , polls today have Peladeau leading his fellow candidates -- and say he 'd lead the Liberals if he were heading the PQ right now . A Leger-Le Devoir poll released November 15 puts a PQ-led Peladeau at 36 per cent of the popular vote , compared to 30 per cent for the Liberals , 19 per cent for the Coailtion Avenir Quebec and 10 per cent for Quebec Solidaire .  How has this happened ? As the Liberals double down on austerity , disgruntled Quebeckers are looking elsewhere . Perhaps they forget that Peladeau is far more right-of-center than the party he is seeking to lead -- and that he never met a union he did n't lock out .  But you ca n't completely blame them : These days , Peladeau has adopted more , er , socialist leanings . For example , on the government 's proposal to end universal daycare fees and charge by income , Peladeau wrote on his Facebook page that " while most Western countries engage in the Liberal government of Philippe Couillard is moving in the opposite direction . "  Pro-natalist ? Get ready , Canada . If ( or at this point , when ) Peladeau takes the helm of the PQ , Ottawa can brace itself for major headaches , the likes of which they have n't seen since the days of Lucien Bouchard . If Harper could choose between that and a Doug-Ford led PC party , he would probably offer up 24 Sussex for the next Fordfest .  But that option is gone . Instead , Ottawa can brace itself for another year of ... crazy .  Tasha Kheiriddin is a political writer and broadcaster who frequently comments in both English and French . In her student days , Tasha was active in youth politics in her hometown of Montreal , eventually serving as national policy director and then president of the Progressive Conservative Youth Federation of Canada . After practising law and a stint in the government of Mike Harris , Tasha became the Ontario director of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation and co-wrote the 2005 bestseller , Rescuing Canada moved back to Montreal in 2006 and served as vice-president of the Montreal Economic Institute , and later director for Quebec of the Fraser Institute , while also lecturing on conservative politics at McGill University . Tasha now lives in Whitby , Ontario with her daughter Zara , born in 2009 .  The views , opinions and positions expressed by all iPolitics columnists and contributors are the author 's alone . They do not inherently or expressly reflect the views , opinions and/or positions of iPolitics.