Opinion: BC needs a poverty-reduction plan
http://www.vancouversun.com/business/Opinion+needs+poverty+reduction+plan/10420565/story.html

opinion : b.c. needs a poverty-reduction plan  evidence of the extent of poverty can not be ignored  it 's time for a better b.c. , one that works for all of us , whether rich or poor , trish garner writes .  photograph by : jason payne jason payne , png  and then there was one . b.c. is now last province without a plan to tackle poverty .  saskatchewan announced oct. 22 in its throne speech it would commit to the development of a poverty reduction strategy , making british columbia the last province in canada without a plan to tackle poverty .  this despite the fact b.c. has the highest or second-highest poverty rate in the country , depending on the poverty measure . notably , the saskatchewan decision was made by the conservative government of brad wall , highlighting this should not be a partisan issue .  how can the b.c. government ignore the mounting evidence ?  first call released on monday its 2014 child poverty report card , revealing that one in five children in children , enough to fill the rogers arena about nine times .  b.c. also has the highest inequality in canada , according to haves and have-nots : deep and persistent wealth inequality in canada from the broadbent institute . the wealthiest 10 per cent own over half the wealth in b.c. while the bottom 50 per cent have only three per cent of the wealth , with many of the poorest facing huge amounts of debt .  the latest report from food banks canada , hungercount 2014 , shows almost 100,000 people visited a food bank in b.c. in a typical month this year , and close to a third were children . that 's a 25-per-cent increase since before the financial crisis of 2008 , and almost four per cent higher than 2013 .  this is not surprising given that food costing in b.c. 2013 from the provincial health services authority shows the average monthly cost of a nutritious food basket for a family of four is $914 , an increase of almost $50 since 2011 .  in the state of homelessness in canada 2013 from the highest rates of severe housing need in canada , and a growing number of homeless people from the latest homelessness count .  the implications of this are shocking . megaphone magazine 's recent report , dying on the streets : homeless deaths in british columbia , highlights that " the median age of death for a homeless person is between 40 and 49 . this is almost half the life expectancy for the average british columbian , which is 82.65 years . "  in response to the crisis of homelessness , the b.c. government has recently launched its homelessness prevention program , which expands rent supplements to four at-risk groups but does nothing to provide more affordable housing .  the burden of poverty : a snapshot of poverty across canada from citizens for public justice highlights that b.c. has the highest local poverty levels in canada , with prince rupert and richmond facing devastating poverty rates of about 23 per cent .  comparing welfare income with the poverty line , welfare in canada 2013 from the caledon institute , found a single " employable " person of the poverty line , leaving a poverty gap of almost $12,000 . welfare in b.c. is deeply inadequate at $610 per month for a single person and has been frozen for seven years .  mary ellen turpel-lafond , b.c. 's representative for children and youth , chastises the government for failing to act on her recommendation for a " provincial strategy and action to reduce child poverty " in not fully invested : a follow-up report on the representative 's past recommendations to help vulnerable children in b.c. , which was released in early october .  the list of research reports goes on but this is a problem of more than numbers and statistics ; it is children and seniors , people with disabilities and recent immigrants , queer youth and single mothers , not being able to make ends meet and going hungry in one of the richest provinces in canada .  it 's time for a better b.c. , one that works for all of us , whether rich or poor . michelle mungall , mla for nelson-creston , recently tabled a poverty reduction and people have urged the government to act and members of the b.c. poverty reduction coalition delivered those letters to premier christy clark this week .  the select standing committee on finance and government services recently released its report from provincewide public consultations on the next provincial budget , and this bi-party committee again recommended to the legislative assembly that the provincial government " introduce a comprehensive poverty reduction plan . "  when will the government listen ? the evidence is clear : we need a poverty reduction plan .  please email the premier and urge her to take action at http : **41;199;toolong  trish garner is the community organizer of the b.c. poverty reduction coalition .  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to . visit our faq page for more information .