Official role of Kim Jong Un's younger sister revealed
http://www.ctvnews.ca/world/official-role-of-kim-jong-un-s-younger-sister-revealed-1.2121596

seoul , south korea -- north korea has revealed that leader kim jong un 's younger sister is a senior official in the ruling workers ' party , strengthening analysts ' views that she is an increasingly important part of the family dynasty that runs the country .  state media on thursday referred to kim yo jong as a departmental vice director within the party 's central committee .  analysts say the mention could signal her growing role in supporting her brother 's authoritarian rule . the siblings ' late father , former leader kim jong il , was seen as relying on his own sister during his 17-year rule .  outsiders closely study north korea 's opaque ruling power dynamics for clues about a secretive country that pursues nuclear weapons and threatens its neighbours with war .  the korean central news agency first referred to kim yo jong as a senior official in the central committee in march , but this is the first time state media have specified her role .  yang moo-jin , a north korea expert at the departmental vice director is roughly equivalent to a vice cabinet minister . the announcement of kim yo jong 's role shows that the government is now confident enough to introduce her as an important part of its leadership , yang said .  cheong seong-chang , an analyst at south korea 's private sejong institute , said kim yo jong is likely to have greater influence than other departmental vice directors because she is a member of the kim family . in establishing his sister in a senior role in the ruling party , kim jong un is further strengthening his control of north korea 's power elite , cheong said .  since taking over north korea 's leadership following the death of his father in 2011 , kim jong un has removed key members of the old guard . the process was highlighted by the 2013 execution of his uncle , jang song thaek , the husband of kim jong il 's influential sister . jang , who was once considered the second most powerful man in north korea , was accused of treason .  kim jong un hae , the secretary of the party 's central committee who recently visited russia as a special envoy , and hwang pyong so , vice marshal of the korean people 's army .