Punish officers who issued title deeds, construction permits in ...
http://www.ippmedia.com/frontend/index.php?l=87765

a new approach being pursued by the government with regard to the demolition of homes in unauthorised areas , which kicked off in dar es salaam a couple of weeks ago , makes a lot of sense .  the government has announced a reprieve of sorts to people who built houses in illegal locations but possess legal documents issued by public authorities in that the structures will only be pulled down after they have been given alternative plots .  the humane approach not only relieves those who were ill informed or misled into building in unauthorized locations but , more importantly , it intends to hold responsible all public officials who issued the non-sanctioned permits and title deeds to the victims . this is indeed a laudable action .  before the government embarked on this sympathetic approach , it was understood that any structure which had been in unauthorized locations would be pulled down - and without reparation , embracing the old saying that ignorance is no defence in law .  this meant that before buying plots that victims should have first gone whether the areas in question were earmarked for residential use or not .  although 774 houses in dar es salaam have so far been pulled down , according to official records , this new approach will go a long way to appeasing some of the affected builders , who can in this case be viewed as having been victims themselves .  as we all know , land is a sensitive asset that is prone to corruption , and many people have fallen victim to the unholy plans of land officers and other schemers . no wonder a myriad schemes were being hatched to dupe the unsuspecting public into obtaining plots or legal documents .  by taking the public officials to task it would most likely force them to act more ethical and responsible manner when carrying out their functions . this laudable approach notwithstanding , the government should go a step farther and find a lasting solution on land management .  we have come this far due to what we could term as government laxity on land and human settlement issues .  imagine a fast growing for the last 16 years , the city has gone on autopilot in land management as there was no master plan .  land management plans are vital for any orderly human settlement . the whole trend in the land management portfolio gives an astonishing impression that land officials were doing abslolutely nothing pertaining to the planning of our cities and towns and thus left the residents to erect structures which are now being branded as illegal .  this sickening failure by the government is what finds us where we are today and not an intentional conspiracy by the people . that is why the new government approach on the demolitions is indeed laudable .  land management plans should have precisely defined reserved areas such as river banks and valleys , sea and lake shores , roads and so forth , for the public to understand and and thereby avoid any encroachment .