She Code for Change trains Dar, Coast schoolgirls
http://www.ippmedia.com/frontend/index.php?l=87764

she code for change trains dar , coast schoolgirls  by aisia rweyemamu  10th january 2016  email  print  an assistant public affairs officer for the us embassy in tanzania , david feldman has challenged youth in the country that they should use the skills they acquired to help their fellow youths to resolve social challenges .  the call was made in dar es salaam yesterday at a showcasing of technological innovation by young tanzanian women nurtured by she code for change tanzania .  " you are the young african leaders . you need to think more in an innovative way to find how you can use your skills and education to help others , " the diplomat told the 45 girls gathered for showcasing after four week of learning .  speaking during the event held at the tanzania commission for science and technology ( costech ) , the she code for tanzania project manager jumanne mtambalike said the project works to close the gender gap in the technological field by educating , inspiring , equipping high school girls with the " our program targets teen girls aged 13-19 years old who made the number of 45 from different secondary schools in dar es salaam and coast regions .  he said that the project has been working on an inspiring program , to engage young girls in thinning the technology gap in tanzania .  " for four weeks the girls were intensively given skills on how to deploy computer games , developing web apps besides being introduced to electronics and making such applications , " the manager noted .  the training was among fundamental basics of knowledge that prepare girls to be ready to take the venture into project development , he said , elaborating that the practice has a powerful impact of inspiring and encouraging the girls . they know that they are in a tournament to be high profile young women in a competitive world .  the training in computer applications was a catalyst to help the students learn practically and be ready to deliver without demanding favors from the world that awaits ability to use and extend technological services .  the pilot project was that support she code for change tanzania believes that opportunities accorded to the girls , including the learning experience , gives them more determination to pursue technology studies .  it also gives them confidence to attempt various technological innovation initiatives that will be the change itself that they seek in the world , the manager added .