Tanzania welcomes Finnish investors in agro-processing
http://www.ippmedia.com/frontend/index.php?l=87763

Tanzania welcomes Finnish investors in agro-processing  Tanzania has welcomed Finnish investors to come and invest in agro-processing industries , which could help in adding value to the agro-produce countrywide .  Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa made the call in a discussion with Finnish Ambassador to Tanzania , Pekka Hukka in his Magogoni-based office in Dar es Salaam .  He commended Finland for being at the forefront in supporting Tanzania in different sectors such as tourism and trade , suggesting the need for current ties to be reinforced for the betterment of the two nations .  The premier said the government has allocated areas for Export Processing Zone ( EPZ ) activities , a one stop service center for all prospective and existing investors .  " These are ideal areas for investors , " he said , noting that venturing into agro-processing will help the country in addressing unemployment .  The PM asserted that the government is determined to improve tax collection as well as plugging loopholes for tax evasion , appealing to the Finnish government to assist the country with the best am aware you 're a bit far when it comes to technology and tax collection systems . That is why it is important for your country to assist us in our endeavors to improve tax collection , " the premier said .  For his part , Ambassador Hukka said that the two nations have started working on the best modalities that would make more Finnish companies come and invest in Tanzania , as there are a number of Finnish companies operating here for several decades .  Finland has the world 's leading industrial companies in the mining and aggregates industries and is also known for its automation solutions for paper , pulp and power generation .  Since 1962 , Finland has given bilateral development aid to Tanzania , which totaled 27 million euros in 2013 . This makes Tanzania Finland 's longest standing partner in development cooperation .  The country 's exports to Tanzania are also on a solid base as Finland currently exports to Tanzania energy machinery and engines , fertilizers and electronics .  The amount of exports to Tanzania in 2011 was about 26 coffee and tea , a trade flow worth about 8 million euros.