FCC, DoJ approve Charter-Time Warner-Bright House mega-merger
http://www.rapidtvnews.com/2016042642631/fcc-doj-approve-charter-time-warner-bright-house-mega-merger.html

by continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies on your device as described in our cookie policy unless you have disabled them . you can change your cookie settings at any time but parts of our site will not function correctly without them . close  the us department of justice and the chairman of the country 's regulator , the fcc , have approved the charter/time warner cable/bright house networks mega-merger -- with conditions .  in conjunction with the department of justice 's ( doj ) , specific fcc conditions will focus on removing unfair barriers to video competition . first , new charter will not be permitted to charge usage-based prices or impose data caps . second , it will be prohibited from charging interconnection fees , including to online video providers , which deliver large volumes of internet traffic to broadband customers . additionally , the doj 's settlement with new charter outlaws video programming terms that could harm online video providers and protects them from retaliation .  all three of these will be seven-year conditions meant services offered over the internet .  " based on imposed conditions that will ensure a competitive video marketplace and increase broadband deployment , an order recommending that the charter/time warner cable/bright house networks transaction be approved has circulated to the commissioners , " said fcc chairman tom wheeler . " as proposed , the order outlines a number of conditions in place for seven years that will directly benefit consumers by bringing and protecting competition to the video marketplace and increasing broadband deployment . "  the conditions also include a provision that the new charter build an additional two million customer locations out with high-speed internet connections ( 25mbps or faster ) . at least one million of those connections must be in direct competition with another high-speed broadband provider in the market served , bringing competition and , the fcc said , demonstrating " the viability of one broadband provider overbuilding another " .  " importantly , we will require an independent monitor to help ensure compliance with these and other proposed conditions , " wheeler said . " these strong measures will protect consumers , expand charter will combine the fourth , seventh and tenth largest mvpds in the country . by combining twc 's 11-million strong base with charter 's 4.1 million and bright house 's two million , the new charter will have 17 million pay-tv subscribers and 18.8 million broadband customers . the top four mvpds will control 79% of the nationwide pay-tv market , measured in terms of subscribers . and the top three alone , according to snl kagan , " will control two-thirds of the video delivery universe " .  ibisworld estimates that the top five players -- comcast , twc , cox , charter and cablevision -- generate about 84.1% of industry revenue .  " what is unclear is whether the merger will lead to better services or faster streaming for customers , or whether it will stem the exodus away from cable providers towards pure stream services , " snl kagan noted .  charter has said that it would use its new-found scale to build out faster broadband for subscribers ; launch an improved cable tv interface ; and wider availability of public wi-fi . it benefit consumers .  opponents argue that the charter deal will stifle competition from innovative streaming services , decrease opportunities for independent , diverse programmers , reduce competition across a range of related technologies , and increase costs for consumers , all while bringing even worse customer service . these are obviously what the conditions are meant to address .  wheeler has circulated an order for the merger approval to the other fcc commissioners , who will need to green light the deal for it to become official-official.