Governor Kidero Must Be Smiling Big After Seeing What Kiss TV's ...
http://www.ghafla.co.ke/news/tv/31032-governor-kidero-must-be-smiling-big-after-seeing-what-kiss-tv-s-grace-msalame-did-photo

Sizzling TV host , Grace Msalame , penned a moving tribute to the wife of Nairobi Governor , Dr. Evans Kidero . The eye candy was moved by the great work Mrs Kidero is doing .  What the sparking Grace Musalame did will certainly impress Dr. Kidero . The way she eulogised Dr.Susan Mboya-Kidero ( Kidero 's wife ) is totally impressive .  Grace went full blast with her tribute describing how she was inspired by Dr. Susan Mboya . The former is the daughter of a once powerful politician , Tom Mboya .  Dr. Susan Mboya  Dr. Susan has touched Grace because of her selflessness . She has picked up the Airlift Africa project ( which organised for scholarship for bright needy students to pursue their education in USA ) from her father to continue in the same spirit under the umbrella of her own organization dubbed Zawadi Africa Foundation .  Grace revealed she would be meeting some of the girls who have benefited from Dr. Susan 's programme in a few weeks ' time .  Below is what she ! ! At the helm of Coca-Cola as The President of the Coca-Cola Africa Foundation &amp; Group Director for Women 's Economic Empowerment for Eurasia &amp; Africa still as the time to continue her Fathers Dream , the late Tom Mboya which was to make Good Education accessible to the less fortunate back in the 1960 's &amp; now years later the Zawadi Africa Foundation the non-profit organization has offered full scholarships to over 360 Students at over 65 Colleges &amp; Universities including ; Yale , Havard , MIT , Smith , Duke ...  Just to name a few ! ! And Within this same Zawadi Programme they offer Beyond The Classroom , which is a high-school out-teach Programme that seeks to mentor them in Effective Decision Making , Goal-Setting , Building Self-Esteem &amp; Self-Discipline , &amp; the importance of Education &amp; Staying in school , among many other lessons ! ! Over the Weekend my lil Girls made some new friends , much older girls , but to everyone 's amazement they were they leaders of the pack confidently leading the way . Kids learn from what they see of the Big role we play as Parents , as Leaders as Mentors , so I am very excited to speak &amp; learn from the girls I will get to meet Courtesy of the Zawadi Foundation in the Coming Week . ? # ? ChangingAGeneration ? # ? EmpowerTheGirl ? # ? PraiseToGod