This Is The MOST RACIST Restaurant In Kenya. Admits To Turning ...
http://www.ghafla.co.ke/news/tv/31356-ktn-s-dennis-onsarigo-and-friends-allegedly-turned-away-from-popular-restaurant-for-being-black

kenyans are generally hospitable people . we welcome foreigners with open arms , letting them build our roads , set up their businesses among other benefits but as it turns out some of them will just turn and spit in our faces  a certain chinese eatery , bai xing ren jia family restaurant was accused of turning away black people after 7 pm by one mosoku geoffrey on facebook . here is the post  there is this chinese restaurant next to nairobi hospital and my two colleagues patrick mayoyo and dennis onsarigo and i are meeting another colleague from nigeria , so we decide to go there for an evening drink but we are turned off at the gate ; reason ? we are told they do n't take in africans after 7pm . reminds me the norfolk or new stanley of the colonial era . i keep warning that china will colonise us one day and it 's now happening right here .  we called up the restaurant to find out if this was true but on the other end of the line to a higher authority , the management .  i honestly expected them to deny , but i was shocked when he admitted to turning away africans for ' security reasons ' . shocked , i asked if white and asian people were allowed into the hotel after 7 p.m and he stated without stuttering or being bashful that they were allowed in as they were not a ' security threat ' . you can listen to teh conversation below :  apparently , the reason for this move was that some african police from kilimani police station raided a chinese restaurant last year mugging people and apparently the chinese association of kenya banned africans from 7 p.m.  some policemen from kilimani police station in civilian raided the chinese restaurant at the end of lenana road last year.the state thugs mugged people.they were in civilian but in police boots.their biggest mistake-they were all blacks.the chinese association in kenya circulated the information and they agreed that no african would be allowed beyond 7 pm . i think the foreigners are right .  either way if this was the reasoning behind because of the mistakes of some individuals from that race , ethnicity or religion.if we are using this backward reasoning then maybe blacks should avoid whites due to the kkk , nazis and slave drivers . i think this is utter poppycock and this kind of reasoning is outdated because even white and asians steal !  this reminds me of the artcaffe saga a few years ago , you can read how the saga played out here  this begs the question why are you setting up a hotel in a country that is predominantly black ten forbidding the people from entering the place after certain hours . it 's like me setting up a hotel in shanghai then forbidding asians from entering the premises from 7. pm for ' security reasons . '