Vietnam 1-8 Manchester City: Sterling hits double in friendly rout
http://www.goal.com/en-ke/match/vietnam-vs-manchester-city/2113693?ICID=LS

after opening his city account in his first appearance against roma , sterling went one better in hanoi as he scored twice in 12 minutes against a national team ranked joint 143rd in the world .  the former liverpool forward was not the only city player to find the back of the net twice in the vietnamese capital , with aleksandar kolarov and david silva also replicating the feat .  substitutes marcos lopez and jose angel pozo completed the rout - before van quyet scored a late consolation for the hosts - as the premier league team cruised to a comfortable triumph .  it took city 11 minutes to open the scoring as kolarov curled home a free-kick after navas had been felled on the edge of the penalty area .  the serbian opted for placement over power as - at the second attempt - he sent the ball around the vietnam wall and into the bottom-left corner .  sterling quickly muscled his way into the action and after 20 minutes had his second city goal , the england international executing a  less than a minute later , silva added city 's third after being gifted far too much space by the vietnam defence , the spaniard 's initial header hitting the bar before he turned in the rebound .  a rampant performance from pellegrini 's side showed no signs of relenting as sterling -- who had recovered from a knock to the back -- netted again with a cool finish from kelechi iheanacho 's pass .  sterling 's hat-trick moment appeared to have arrived five minutes after the break as he was felled in the penalty area , but he was denied the chance as stand-in captain kolarov converted from the spot .  silva joined sterling and kolarov with a double just after the hour as his last touch brought city 's sixth goal , the diminutive playmaker lifting the ball over loi from sterling 's pass .  despite a host of changes in the second half , city 's continued to push for more and they were rewarded after 74 minutes as lopes ' scuffed effort crept under substitute goalkeeper nguyen thanh diep .  pozo for vietnam as van quyet grabbed a consolation in stoppage time , the striker deftly lobbing the advancing willy caballero.