I am enjoying my marriage - Popular radio presenter, events MC ...
http://www.mediamaxnetwork.co.ke/people-daily/158362/i-am-enjoying-my-marriage-popular-radio-presenter-events-mc-musician-davidson-ngibuini-aka-dng-says/

share  Popular radio presenter , events MC and musician Davidson Ngibuini aka DNG got married this year . He opens up opens up about his hustle , new job and being a husband  You got hitched sometime this year , how is married life ?  I am enjoying my marriage . You know , there was a lot of hype about it . Many people still ask why I did a private wedding . Being a public figure , it is hard to have a personal life , but I want to keep my personal life out of the limelight .  I really wanted to get married because I have done what boys do at the tender age . It got to a point I wanted to set a foundation for my life . I met my wife Yvette Nungari through a mutual friend and she works for an airline .  Where did you go for honeymoon ?  ( Laughs ) Republic of Maldives in Asia . The Maldives is an Islamic republic , which lies off the Indian sub-continent . !  How does your wife deal with the spotlight ?  She understands and appreciates my hustle . I have tried as much as possible to keep her out of the limelight . When I go home I go home as a husband .  Now to work . You work for Performers Rights Society of Kenya and Kenya Association of Music Producers that is said to have beef with DJs for apparently playing music without paying the required licences . Is that true ?  We had a misunderstanding . I admit communication was not done properly . We wanted to introduce a new tariff . However , we experienced some problems and we reverted to the old one . We were and are not fighting DJs as is being portrayed . We are all stakeholders in this industry and need each other for business .  The thing is , the law requires DJs to pay for licences . For resident DJs , it is the duty of the club or the media house to pay for the licences . Mobile DJs , should be licenced by the We just want everyone to get their dues as provided for in the law .  What exactly do you do for the two organisations ?  I do marketing , communication and consultancy for them . My mandate is to create awareness about what they do , and their job and position in the market .  My work also involves creating synergy and unity among members . At the same time I am in charge of creating and sustaining a positive public image of the two organisations through public relation activities .  We make sure artistes achieve their dreams and that they fully exploit their music financially among other benefits they are entitled to . We do that because it is impossible for 2,000 artistes to monitor if those playing their music are paying for it .  You have been in the media industry for a long time . Give us a recap of how you started and where you are now .  I started at Homeboyz Radio in 2005 where I did a late night show . In 2008 , I went to Kiss FM The hype got bigger and that is when I started doing Keeping it Kenyan every Saturday .  When Radio Africa launched a TV station , I was part of the team that crafted the music programmes with the late Ruhilla Adatia , Mizizi Mbaya and others . After that I joined One FM and later quit to set up my company 254 Entertainment .  My company was in charge of the Dunda na Uhuru campaign . When I felt that my company was on its feet , I went back to One FM . Last month . I quit radio as I felt I needed a bigger challenge . I am now back to managing my brands , especially DnG and concentrate on consultancy .  Do you consider yourself a brand ?  Yes . I have been in the entertainment industry for more than 12 years . I released my first song in 2003 and over the years , built myself as a brand . I registered 254 Entertainment as a company and the first baby was DnG . During my radio career , I built my media personality .  Last but not least what is your advice for those who want to make it in the industry ?  One needs to do a situational analysis . Whatever field you want to venture , do through research . Then find the Unique Selling Points or simply USPs of your brand . Communicate to your audience and do not be afraid to make mistakes .