World Condemns Rwandan Genocide on 18th Commemoration of ...
http://www.newspakistan.pk/2012/04/07/World-Condemns-Rwandan-Genocide-on-18th-Commemoration-of-the-sad-incident/

world condemns rwandan genocide on 18th commemoration of the sad incident  world condemns rwandan genocide on 18th commemoration of the sad incident  today 's day marks the 18th commemoration of the brutal genocide in rwanda back in 1994 which caused over 800,000 rwandan men , women and children 's death over a period of hundred days .  while joining the nations that are recognizing and commemorating this day to express their support , sympathy and grief for the rwanda people over the incident that took place 18-years ago , united states has also condemned the incident and has offered sympathies for the families who underwent the tragic occurrence .  a press release issued by the us state department on this occasion read , " the united states joins countries on april 7 throughout the world as we collectively remember the approximately 800,000 rwandan men , women and children who , over the course of 100 days , were brutally murdered in rwanda 's genocide 18 years ago . we offer heartfelt sympathies to the families of the victims and to the survivors who .  this is a solemn day of remembrance . we commemorate those who were lost , and we are also are inspired and encouraged by rwandans ' relentless determination to move beyond this tragedy to rebuild their country and reestablish peace and hope for their children . since the genocide , rwanda has made remarkable strides in health , education and agriculture , and has done much to promote regional stability and good governance . once a country steeped in violent conflict , rwanda has emerged as an important contributor to the global economy , and to global peace as one of the largest and most effective peacekeepers in the world . rwanda continues to deliver impressive results in economic growth and development , and the u.s-rwanda bilateral investment treaty that entered into force in january promises to further open avenues for investment , trade and ties between our countries .  as we honor the victims of the 1994 genocide , the united states affirms its commitment to continue to work together with the people and government of rwanda to ensure that freedom , justice and peace are respected @ @ @ @ @