People to judge performance of PPP; says Asif Ali Zardari
http://www.newspakistan.pk/2012/04/17/people-judge-performance-ppp-asif-ali-zardari/

people to judge performance of ppp ; says asif ali zardari  president asif ali zardari has said the pakistan people 's party ( ppp ) had endured an obvious campaign of malign but had decided to let the people evaluate performance of the government .  while addressing 22nd apns ( all pakistan newspaper society ) award ceremony , the president observed , " let them judge whether we have been criticized justly or subjected to a campaign of slander . we have not taken any action against anyone and will continue with the same " .  the party had decided not to be provoked anyone and would continue the policy of reconciliation in the future too , he added .  he further said they have extended the hand of friendship to all stakeholders including political parties , media and other concerned organizations .  zardari said that the people were wise enough and let them not underestimate their wisdom , adding they could differentiate between freedom of expression and an organized slandering campaign .  taking credit for giving the country a consensus independence , he said they had even been a subject to campaigns of character assassination . the premier and his family is the latest target of a maligning campaign , he added .  the president commented , " yousaf raza gilani has become a target ever since he raised the slogan of seraiki province and ever since he stood by me . before that , he was acceptable . but since he started supporting me and the seraiki province , he has become unacceptable " .  in his view , the future of the country was inextricably associated to continuation of democracy , saying that they were representing the masses and it had been proven again and again .  besides implementation of the 8th wage board award and the setting up of the 9th wage board , he urged the apns to look into the issue of payment of salaries to employees and journalists .  about demand of the apns , zardari said that the ministry of information had taken the ownership of the freedom of information act from the cabinet division , adding that there was bring in a new act of parliament .  in his view , the people must have access to information for the sake of transparency and accountability , calling upon the information ministry to expedite finalization of the bill and tabling in the parliament .  leave a reply  comment by muhammad umair : ( april 18th , 2012 at 9:56 am )  this so called president of ours is so hilarious every time he speaks . a totally insane person has no value of human life does n't know how people are living in the country and how many are committing suicide due poverty , unemployment and hunger . only cares is about is his damn money and bank accounts . he is certainly an inspiration for thieves that how a lotter and theif can become a president .  comment by muhammad umair : ( april 18th , 2012 at 9:46 am )  @mansroor hussain he definitely has a tv but he watches ptv news all is well channel which is a ppp advertisement channel .  comment by nauman : ( april 17th , 2012 already judged you ,  comment by shahrukh khan : ( april 17th , 2012 at 11:39 pm )  i am not sure which drugs zardari is taking . ca n't he see what peoples think and know of him let me give him hint , does mr 10% rings a bell or how about 60 mil $ in swiss account or how about 9 karor public wealth as nazrana on mazar in india ? i do not think zardari is awake . let me try one more time how about electricity load shedding ? cng ? pakistan railway ? pia ? pakistan steel mills ?  comment by tariq : ( april 17th , 2012 at 7:55 pm )  i agree with the writer above . zardari thinks either people of pakistan are insane or blind . as they do n't know what is going around them . zardari is the most shameless person ever born . who is not afraid to lie in front of thousands of people . i feel sad that our armed forces , and judiciary are sitting , and watching these group of hand to destablise our beloved pakistan . allah bless &amp; protect pakistan