People rush to markets for Eid preparation
http://www.brecorder.com/pakistan/markets/72803-people-rush-to-markets-for-eid-preparation.html

people rush to markets for eid preparation  hyderabad : eid shopping is gaining momentum as great rush of people are being witnessed in all markets and bazaars of hyderabad .  nowadays , the children and women are more enthusiastic in choosing new and unique design clothes to wear on the occasion of eidul fitr .  after iftar , bazaars and markets get crowded with people , especially women and children , to buy clothes and accessories for eid ul fitr .  the customers start thronging shopping centres in the evening said a shopkeeper in rasham bazar . the government employees have also jumped into the arena as they have received their salaries and the shopping frenzy has started touching its peak .  with the rise in number of buyers , traffic jam in the town 's busy market places and intersections , particularly in front of shopping centres including rasham bazar , cant bazar market , latifabad market and other areas has become a routine .  the people belonging to all age groups including women and children are seen busy in ' chand raat ' . nowadays , the main focus of the citizens is on the purchase of the clothes , footwears and many other items for the festival .  salma a housewife said that prices of different varieties of clothes have registered a sharp rise although the shops are almost full of a variety of garments .  customers claimed that the prices of dress materials particularly for women and children have sharply increased .  irfan ali a buyer said that everyone tries to celebrate eid-ul-fitr , one of the biggest religious festivals after ramazan with zeal and fervor and maximum arrangements are made in this regard .  he also said eid festival coming nearer , they are purchasing best items and gifts for themselves or for family members , friends , and relatives .  the shopkeepers expressed that it is the best time to make money . they are optimist as the number of shoppers is increasing day by day .  meanwhile , police claimed to have made foolproof security arrangements for the protection of the people at various shopping centres , markets and children lady police have also been deployed in various busy shopping malls at saddar bazaar , rasham bazarand other busy markets of the city .