My Dance Didn't Hurt Sonakshi: Prabhu Deva
http://www.pakwatan.com/entertainment_news.php?id=3144

03/08/12 Prabhu Deva on entering the Rs 100 crore club in Bollywood and finally making a romantic film  It was during a welcome break from the incessant rains in the city that Prabhu Deva opened the doors of his Lokhandwala apartment for us . Sitting with a cup of green tea and clad in a black tee and denims , Prabhu chats with us about his film , family and keeping his producers happy .  With two back-to-back hits in Wanted and Rowdy Rathore , have you become the most wanted director in the industry ?  How can I call myself that ? May be , others can say ...  Do you feel today you have become a part of Bollywood ?  Yes , and I 'm happy . After all , I 'm also a human ( smiles ) . Before I started making films for Bollywood , I had apprehensions . But after all , sensibilities through out the country are pretty much the same . We all need romance , comedy , action , emotions ...  After directing working with debutant actor Girish Taurani ...  Yes , it will be very challenging . While I am used to directing action flicks , this one will be a romance .  You seem to be very fond of remakes ?  Even my friends ask me the same question ! But my next two films are based on original scripts . As long as my producer and the audience are happy , I am happy .  Your Rowdy Rathore made it to the Rs 100 crore club .  I never ask about my film collections . If I like the film , that 's enough for me . I have two friends who keep me abreast about the box office collections . That 's enough information for me .  You will be acting in a film called ABCD ...  I 'm very excited about it , as it is a dance film and that too in 3D . I am as excited as a newcomer ! I share screen space with my friend Ganesh Acharya .  Apparently you made Sonakshi Sinha work so hard an injury ?  We just danced and danced . People love to make mountains out of molehills .  Stars of the Hunger Games films said they were sad to see the end of the box office smash franchise as they assembled on a black carpet for the premiere of the last installment in the series " Mockingjay - Part 2 " .  A new play that opens in London next summer will pick up the story of Harry Potter where the seventh and final volume of J.K. Rowling s saga left off , with a plot involving a grown-up Harry and his youngest son , Albus.