Export ban suggested: PSM calls for exempting ST on local iron ore ...
http://www.brecorder.com/top-news/108/70693-export-ban-suggested-psm-calls-for-exempting-st-on-local-iron-ore-purchase-.html

islamabad : pakistan steel mills ( psm ) has requested the government to either exempt local iron ore from 16 percent sales tax or impose a ban or regulatory duty ( rd ) on its export because its supply to the psm is declining rapidly because of exports .  sources told business recorder that the psm intimated to the government that it was facing a shortage of iron ore because of difficulties associated with importing iron ore with a consequent heavier reliance on local iron ore . the disparity in the levy of sales tax and relaxation of taxes on exports has attracted local mine owners and suppliers to export the locally-mined iron ore , instead of supplying it to pakistan steel/local consumers .  a ban on the export of local iron ore would make available more local ore to psm , which in turn would help in the development of related local industry , generate employment opportunities to the local people and , more importantly , save substantial foreign exchange by reducing reliance on imported raw material . these measures would also protect pakistan iron ore within the country which would play a vital rote in improving the socio-economic condition of local areas of balochistan .  another option suggested was to impose regulatory duty on export of local iron ore . if this is not possible then some sort of regulatory duty may be imposed on export of local iron ore like in india ( up to 20% ) and in russia ( up to 30% ) . this will , discourage iron ore exports and would be used locally for the development of local downstream industry . the psm also drew the attention of the government towards 16% sates tax on local iron ore while other exploration items are enjoying facility of either total exemption of tax or levy of fixed sales tax .  the psm stated that locally produced coal was being charged rs1,000 per ton fixed value of sales tax whereas platinum , palladium , diamonds , precious stones as well as synthetic or reconstructed stones and precious or semi precious stones had been exempted from sales tax through sro ( 721 ) ( 1 ) 2009 and sro 895 said , had encouraged local mine owners of iron ore to export local iron ore , instead of selling it to local consumers . the psm also referred to measures taken by neighbouring countries to protect local industry . local industry , psm argued , was provided special incentives/protection as regards the provision of raw material . almost every country follows this basic principle .