Fiat Chrysler going for global push
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/business/2014/05/07/fiat-chrysler-going-for-global-push/

Fiat Chrysler going for global push  DETROIT : Newly merged Fiat Chrysler Automobiles laid out aggressive plans yesterday , including a revitalisation of the Alfa Romeo sports-car line and the doubling of Jeep sales , mainly in China .  Chief executive Sergio Marchionne said the Italian-American carmaker aims to build sales not only in the United States but in other markets as it seeks to rival General Motors and Volkswagen .  " The history of the automobile industry is littered with alliances that have failed , " Marchionne told investors , suppliers and reporters at Chrysler headquarters in Detroit , newly relabelled Fiat Chrysler .  " In the past five years , Fiat and Chrysler have learned to work together and trust each other , " he said .  This has led to a sharing of technical knowledge and market savvy , which is turning the company into a true global automaker , he said .  " In a flat world , you can not be secure in your own market unless you can compete on a global basis , " in January , though the formal corporate union , combining their accounts , will not be completed until mid-2014 . After that the company will list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange .  Yesterday , Fiat Group released its earnings for the first quarter -- with Chrysler still a minority-held subsidiary -- that saw it falling to a loss of 319 million euros ( US$444 million ) mainly on costs associated with its takeover of Chrysler .  Vehicle shipments were up 9.1% from the year-earlier quarter to 1.1 million units , and net revenues gained 12.3% to 22.1 billion euros .  With the European market in poor shape , and the US market booming , Chrysler 's sales and profits have been crucial to its Italian parent .  Marchionne said the company is determined to build more presence in the world 's strongest markets , including the United States and China , over the next five years .  The combined company wants to increase its market share in the US-Canada-Mexico market to 15% from 11.5% , helped by an expanded product line .  effort , Mike Manley , head of the Jeep brand , told investors .  Jeeps are now built only in the US but the firm expects sales to grow by 20% per year over the next five years , doubling this year 's expected one million units by 2018 , Manley said .  In the next five years Jeep will begin building cars in Brazil , Italy , India and China .  " Jeep is one of the fastest-growing imported brands in China and this is our largest Jeep market outside the US , " Manley said .  A separate push is in store for Alfa Romeo , which has sagged behind rival luxury sports cars in Europe and has been virtually absent in the United States while Mercedes Benz , Audi and BMW have enjoyed booming sales .  Harald Wester , the Fiat executive in charge of Alfa Romeo , said the brand has earned much glory on the race track but has never had much financial success .  " It neglected its roots , " noted Wester , adding Alfa Romeo 's commercial brand so appealing when it went racing .  But a presentation showed a challenging effort to grow Alfa Romeo sales from 74,000 cars in 2013 to 400,000 in 2018 , introducing eight new models over that time .  " Our German competitors have enjoyed phenomenal success , " noted Wester . Alfa Romeo will double its engineering staff to 600 by the end of next year and the goal is to deliver the best rear-wheel-drive automobile architecture in the world , he said .  " Our future products will be equipped with cutting-edge powertrains , " he added .  Keeping Ferrari limited  At the same time , the company will resist bowing to surging demand for its Ferrari supercars , limiting production to the current 7,000 a year level at least through 2018 to ensure the brand 's image is protected .  Demand in emerging markets like China is strong enough for a 10,000 unit annual output , but that is more than Ferrari wants to produce .  " We want to keep production capped to preserve the brand 's uniqueness , while continuing in mature ones , " said Marchionne .  Marchionne said Ferrari will launch a new model every year , with a four-year life cycle for each new model .  It will launch special limited series targeting the wealthiest customers and broaden its " personalization " of key models to boost Ferrari 's profit margins .  " That 's very good business for us , " he said .  -- AFP  Comments  Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story . We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . Please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  The views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.