High Point at KIA's Champs to Rio with KSL FC announced winners
http://www.goal.com/en-my/news/3891/features/2014/05/04/4796308/high-point-at-kias-champs-to-rio-with-ksl-fc-announced

champs to rio , a futsal tournament by naza kia malaysia ended at a highpoint today with the announcement of the winning team after two gruelling days of round-robin challenges amongst 40 teams . the winners , ksl fc , comprising of six players will represent malaysia at the kia champ into the arena tournament in salvador , brazil on 4-7 july . in addition to the all-expenses paid trip to brazil , the whole team will get rm10,000 in cash , a champion cup , champion medals , exclusive jerseys and tickets to the quarter finals of world cup 2014 .  champs to rio is a local initiative by naza kia malaysia for malaysians to experience and be a part of the excitement and energy of world cup 2014 , one of the biggest sports events of the year . naza kia malaysia gave away rm20,000 in cash in addition to the six flight tickets to brazil to the winners today . the champions also received exclusive jerseys , which they will wear in the global futsal matches in brazil . first runner up , and silver medals , second runner up 1 malaysia united won rm3,000 and bronze medals whilst third runner up tot united a won rm 2,000 and bronze medals . registered teams came from all over the country .  only two countries in the southeast asia , malaysia and philippines will be sending a futsal team to brazil for this initiative . datuk hafiz syed abu bakar , chief operating officer of naza kia malaysia said the company sees the global partnership with fifa world cup as a great opportunity to deliver the excitement of the brand to football-mad fellow malaysians .  " futsal and football are games that unite malaysians and share a common thread of passion , skills and determination . with champs to rio , you get the best of both worlds , where the game of futsal acts as a foretaste to the prize of being part of fifa world cup in brazil . we are pleased to be able to fly the malaysian flag in brazil at the global futsal tournament through our champs today . i 'm sure you 'll do us proud , their victory jubilantly .  champs to rio was open to 40 teams via online registration starting early april 2014 . registered teams started the matches on saturday , 3 may 2014 at sports planet in ampang . the format of the tournament was league-based where 10 teams were put into one group . the top two of each group qualified to quarter finals played at the fifa pitch . the duration of every match in group stages lasted 20 minutes with 10 minutes for each half . the quarter finals , semi finals and finals , each match lasting 30 minutes were held on 4 may 2014 at the same venue , with 15 minutes for each half .  champs to rio under naza kia malaysia 's " world cup rocks with kia " campaign which gives ten lucky malaysians the opportunities to win all-expenses-paid trips to brazil to watch the fifa world cup . other initiatives under this campaign include fuleco friend search ( 2 tickets won ) and 2014 world cup road show ( 2 tickets up for grabs ) and cheer to kit , a roving " the power to surprise " , naza kia malaysia has created extraordinary opportunities at the world cup in brazil through kia motor 's global partnership as the official partner of 2014 fifa world cup . those interested in getting more information on this and other exciting fifa world cup initiatives by naza kia malaysia can log on to www.kia.com or **28;557;toolong