US takes Indonesia to WTO over import rules
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/business/2014/05/09/us-takes-indonesia-to-wto-over-import-rules/

ros lboard  us takes indonesia to wto over import rules  may 9 , 2014  washington : the united states said today it was taking indonesia back to the wto to loosen its rules on the import of agricultural products , saying that reforms have been insufficient .  the united states , joined by fellow agricultural exporter new zealand , said that they were seeking consultations under the world trade organisation . if talks fail , the two western nations could ask for the geneva-based body to set up a panel to settle the dispute .  the united states in early 2013 also held wto consultations with indonesia over its " opaque and complex " rules on imports . in response , indonesia streamlined its import licensing process and removed a number of items from regulation including garlic , chili powder and cabbage .  " unfortunately , the revised system still appears to breach wto rules and restrict us agricultural exports , " us trade representative michael froman said in a statement as he announced the new wto move .  " its import licensing system into compliance with wto rules so that us farmers , ranchers , and businesses are able to have the access to indonesia 's market that we negotiated in the wto , " he said .  the united states said it was concerned about restrictions on its exports of fruits , vegetables , flowers , beef , poultry and other products to indonesia , the world 's fourth most populous nation .  the action comes ahead of indonesia 's presidential elections in july in which one issue facing candidates is economic policies seen by foreign investors as nationalist .  indonesia generally has friendly relations with the united states , which has also launched wto action against india in the midst of national elections .  -- afp  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook account to comment on this story . we welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.