Americans Don't Know What Causes Cancer
http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/02/04/americans-dont-know-what-causes-cancer

alcohol , obesity , lack of exercise and poor diets have all been shown to increase the risk of cancer -- but few americans realize this , according to a new survey published wednesday to mark world cancer day .  instead , people tend to blame risk factors for cancer on food additives , genetically modified foods , stress and beef hormones . falsely identifying risk factors means many american do not know there are lifestyle changes they can make to help lower the possibility that they might get cancer .  the cancer risk awareness survey , released wednesday by the american institute for cancer research , has been conducted periodically since 2001 , asking participants to select factors that they believe have a significant effect on whether the average person develops cancer .  " instead of focusing on factors that you ca n't always control , we want americans to learn more about the factors that you can and do control , every day , " alice bender , the organization 's associate director of nutrition programs , said in a statement . the myth that there is nothing they can do to change their risk of getting cancer . the reality is that genes and family history account for 5 percent to 10 percent of all cancers , a reality that 21 percent of americans know .  among the results showed that fewer than half of americans know some of the real risks of cancer :  research has found that diets that are high in fruits and vegetables lower the incidence of colon , stomach and pancreatic cancer . the survey found , however , that only 42 percent of americans are aware that a diet without these components can increase cancer risk -- a figure that has decreased since 2009 , when the total was at 52 percent .  diets high in red meat have been linked to colon cancer , a reality that just over a third of americans know . this reflects the same percentage of people that were aware of this in 2013 , the last time the survey was conducted .  alcohol also has been shown to increase cancer risk , particularly for breast of this has increased 5 percentage points since 2013 , the total still remains at less than half , at 43 percent .  the knowledge that being overweight or obese impacts cancer risk has increased by 4 percentage points -- to 52 percent .  other factors that americans think impact cancer risks are those that research has yet to show conclusive evidence :  pesticide residue on produce ( identified by 74 percent of respondents ) . though evidence has linked cancer with high daily exposure of farm workers to pesticides , the evidence on lower levels of exposure is not clear .  food additives ( 62 percent )  genetically modified foods ( 56 percent )  stress ( 55 percent )  hormones in beef ( 55 percent )  bender concluded in a statement that americans often are hit with individual studies of risk factors , not seeing the overall scientific consensus . " when it comes to cancer , there are no guarantees , " she said in the statement . " but the science on lowering cancer risk has never been clearer . released wednesday , estimated that a third of the most common cancers in the u.s. could be prevented if americans moved more , weighed less and ate more healthfully . this number represents 340,000 cases , according to the organization .  in addition , if americans avoided the sun more , then nearly half of cancers in the country would be prevented , according to the research group .  kimberly leonard is a health care reporter for the news division at u.s. news . previously she worked in health rankings as a multimedia producer and reporter . you can follow her on twitter , connect with her on linkedin , circle her on google+ or email her at kleonard@usnews.com