RIA neuroscience study points to possible use of medical marijuana ...
http://www.buffalo.edu/news/releases/2015/02/004.html

buffalo , n.y . -- scientists at the university at buffalo 's research institute on addictions ( ria ) are studying chronic stress and depression , with a focus on endocannabinoids , which are brain chemicals similar to substances in marijuana .  the findings raise the possibility that components of marijuana may be useful in reducing depression that results from chronic stress .  " in the animal models we studied , we saw that chronic stress reduced the production of endocannabinoids , leading to depression-like behavior , " says ria senior research scientist samir haj-dahmane , phd .  endocannabinoids are naturally produced chemical compounds in the brain that affect motor control , cognition , emotions and behavior . as the name suggests , they are similar to the chemicals found in marijuana ( cannabissativa ) and its active ingredient , **28;0;toolong ( thc ) .  " chronic stress is one of the major causes of depression , " haj-dahmane says . " using compounds derived from cannabis -- marijuana -- to restore normal endocannabinoid function could potentially help stabilize moods and ease depression " our research thus far has used animal models ; there is still a long way to go before we know whether this can be effective in humans , " he says . " however , we have seen that some people who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder have reported relief using marijuana . "  haj-dahmane says the next step in the research is to see if using a marijuana extract , cannabidiol ( cbd ) , restores normal behaviors in the animals without leading to dependence on the drug .  the study , co-authored by roh-yu shen , phd , ria senior research scientist , was funded by a grant from the national institute of mental health . it appeared in the fall issue of the journal of neuroscience .  medical marijuana remains a controversial issue . although 23 states and the district of columbia have approved its use to provide relief for health problems such as glaucoma , nerve pain , epilepsy , multiple sclerosis and nausea from chemotherapy , some experts are concerned that medical use of marijuana may normalize attitudes about the drug and completely safe .  ria is a research center of the university at buffalo and a national leader in the study of alcohol and substance abuse issues . ria 's research programs , most of which have multiple-year funding , are supported by federal , state and private foundation grants . located on ub 's downtown campus , ria is a member of the buffalo niagara medical campus and a key contributor to ub 's reputation for research excellence . to learn more , visit buffalo.edu/ria.