Free from Ebola, survivors complain of new syndrome
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-ebola-survivors-idUSKBN0L81WA20150204

free from ebola , survivors complain of new syndrome  ebola survivor romeo doe poses for a picture at a clinic in monrovia , february 1 , 2015 .  reuters/james giahyue  dakar/monrovia romeo doe , a 29-year-old tailor who survived ebola in liberia , is struggling to cope with the impact of a disease that killed seven members of his family and now threatens his livelihood .  since he was released from an ebola center in the capital monrovia in november , pressure is rising in his eyes and affecting his vision - a complaint some doctors say is common among survivors of the west african outbreak .  there are a growing number of survivors of the disease in the region , between 5,000 and 10,000 according to the united nations , and some complain of side effects months after their recovery - a condition some doctors are calling " post-ebola syndrome " ( pes ) .  " since i was discharged i have felt this pain in my eyes , " said doe . " they , as you can see want the government to help me get back on my feet . "  ebola , which has killed almost 9,000 people across guinea , liberia and sierra leone , initially causes fever and vomiting , then attacks the immune system and vital organs , often causing internal and external bleeding .  about 60 percent of ebola patients have died in the current outbreak , typically from shock or organ failure .  some of those who have survived the disease report a mixture of symptoms after their recovery , including vision problems , joint pain , hair and memory loss and anxiety attacks .  margaret nanyonga , a doctor who treated ebola patients in the town of kenema in sierra leone , said she had seen survivors go blind . overall about half of those she saw recover reported declining health , she said .  doctors say it is not yet clear how long the symptoms last . there is also no scientific literature or medical consensus on any new syndrome among west african survivors or how many people might be affected .  dan kelly , specializing in infectious diseases , says the situation can be complicated by poor medical records making it hard to separate any new symptoms from pre-existing conditions . ebola , like many severe infections , may also weaken survivors and make other illnesses more likely .  kelly said some ebola after-effects appear linked to the infection itself , with some patients developing symptoms similar to so-called autoimmune disorders - where the immune system is over stimulated and begins to attack the body 's own tissues . other patients develop symptoms similar to uveitis , he said , an eye inflammation causing blindness .  " with post-ebola syndrome there is an autoimmune response : it 's revved up , and we do n't really know why , " he told reuters by telephone from sierra leone where he is helping with the ebola response .  neglect  when korlia bonarwolo left an ebola treatment center in monrovia last year , his blood was free of the virus but he had caught two other life-threatening diseases : malaria and pneumonia .  the 26-year old doctor 's assistant blames his health ebola infection .  at the john f. kennedy medical center in monrovia , draughts from the open-air corridors left him exposed , he says , while frightened nurses threw him juice boxes which he was often too weak to retrieve .  back home , medical colleagues shunned him and he had to insert his own intravenous drip . six months afterwards he has fully recovered but , as president of a survivors ' association , wants to ensure others get better support and health information .  " the questions survivors are asking about where they are going to be health-wise in the future deserve answers , " bonarwolo said at a survivors ' meeting organized by the united nations .  the outbreak is now ebbing , and the health ministry says there are fewer than 10 cases in the country , but even survivors with no worrying symptoms say it is hard to get back to normal life with so many unanswered questions about ebola 's impact .  one of the ongoing concerns relates to sexual health . some female ebola survivors say they have stopped months .  the links between ebola and mental health disorders is also little understood . a friend of bonarwolo 's survived ebola only to develop a mental illness afterwards .  research window  ben neumann , a virologist at britain 's reading university who studies ebola and other viruses and their effects , notes that lassa virus , which comes from west africa and causes a similar disease to ebola , has also been reported as having longer-term health effects .  " ( lassa ) survivors often report signs of nerve damage such as loss of hearing , " he told reuters , adding that it would be " surprising that something as damaging as ebola did not have lasting effects " .  the current lack of knowledge about post-ebola health effects is probably " due to ebola being a rare virus that left few survivors before this outbreak " , he said .  some after-effects of ebola have been reported in previous outbreaks since the disease was first detected in 1976 , but past epidemics were smaller and often more deadly , meaning there were so this outbreak creates a unique opportunity to learn more .  kelly agrees , and wants swift follow-up .  " we are at risk of missing the window , " he said . " we need to start catching survivors as they leave treatment centers. "