Twitter considers increasing the number of ads in your feed
http://www.theverge.com/2015/2/12/8025729/twitter-ads-every-twenty-tweets-dick-costolo

twitter may increase the amount of ad content in user streams in 2015 , the new york times reports . during a keynote address at a tech investors conference in san francisco yesterday , twitter ceo dick costolo addressed the company 's revenue expansion plans , which include growing its core business model of inserting ads into twitter streams .  costolo said the company has discussed increasing the ad load to about 5 percent of the content you view on twitter , which would work out to roughly one ad every 20 tweets . " that may not be exactly where it lands , but you can think about it as eventually being in that range , " costolo said . " we 're well below that now , so we 've got tons of room to grow there . " notably , facebook also aims for about 5 percent of its posts to be ads . twitter 's current ratio , based on an unscientific count , appears to be around one ad for every 25 to 30 non-ads .  last month the company compete with facebook and increase the amount of time users spend on the service . " content creators want to go into an ecosystem , deliver a great experience to users and tell stories , and then make money from it , " costolo said .  twitter posted its fourth quarter earnings last week . while the company 's quarterly revenue grew 97 percent year over year , its user growth has stalled , increasing less than 2 percent from the last quarter . twitter will need to work on catering to the needs of its user base -- like a way to deal with harassment -- if it wants more people to see its ads .  correction , 3 p.m. : this post has been updated to clarify and add context to costolo 's remarks . an earlier version of this story incorrectly said costolo wanted users to see an ad every 20 tweets .  forgot username ?  almost done ,  by becoming a registered user , you are also agreeing to our terms and confirming that you have read our privacy policy .  complete sign up .  in order to provide our users with a better overall experience , we ask for more information from facebook when using it to login so that we can learn more about our audience and provide you with the best possible experience . we do not store specific user data and the sharing of it is not required to login with facebook.