Leverage the in-memory capabilities of SQL Server 2014 for better ...
http://www.infoworld.com/article/2882707/sql/leverage-the-in-memory-capabilities-of-sql-server-2014-for-better-performance.html

From  Thank you  Sorry  SQL Server 2014 provides a comprehensive high-end database solution that can meet the emerging demands of the businesses and enterprises alike . It marks the release of Microsoft 's flagship database product that provides you a platform for hybrid cloud - you can now build , deploy and manage your databases that reside both on premise as well as in the cloud . SQL Server 2014 includes many interesting new features . One of such new features is the new OLTP engine .  I was intrigued on reading and exploring the in-memory capabilities of SQL Server 2014 . Microsoft 's SQL Server 2014 promises to reap the benefits of 64-bit computing . The in-memory capabilities in SQL Server 2014 is facilitated by the In-Memory OLTP Engine -- it 's integrated right into SQL Server 2014 . This engine is code named as " Hekaton " and is an in-built feature in SQL Server 2014 . Hakaton is a Greek word that implies " 100 " . Microsoft 's SQL Server 2014 was earlier code named as Hekaton because the times . The MSDN states : " New in SQL Server 2014 , In-Memory OLTP can significantly improve OLTP database application performance . In-Memory OLTP is a memory-optimized database engine integrated into the SQL Server engine , optimized for OLTP . " ( Reference )  To use memory optimized tables in SQL Server 2014 , all of the following requirements should be fulfilled :  1 . ) SQL Server 2014 ( 64-bit ) Enterprise or Developer or Evaluation version installed2 . ) You should have enough memory to allow for storing memory optimized database tables and indexes3 . ) You should have enough of free disk space - preferably twice the size of your memory optimized tables4. ) 64-bit processor to support the instruction cmpxchg16b to use In-Memory OLTP should be available  One of the most important differentiators amongst SQL Server 2014 and its earlier counterparts is in the former 's support for in-memory database tables . When our computer systems go slow we often increase the physical memory in the system so that you would get more RAM . Increasing memory does improve the performance to a problem always primarily because you need to know whether the microprocessor would support the amount of memory installed in your system , etc .  The newly introduced In-Memory OLTP engine in SQL Server 2014 enables you to create in-memory tables and then perform input output operations ( I/O ) against them in memory . Performing I/O operations against these in-memory tables result in faster reads and writes as your application can read from and write to the memory much faster compared to disk reads and writes . In essence , with SQL Server 2014 you can now move your database tables into memory for lower latency and improved performance.To enable your database to support in-memory OLTP , you should add a filegroup for the memory optimized data and also add a container to the filegroup you added .  Considering that you have a database named infoworld , here 's the script that you need to execute to enable this support .  Note that any database in SQL Server 2014 that uses memory-optimized data must have at least one file group associated . This file group should be created in place , you can create your memory optimized table with the script given below .  Note that the above table is a durable table , i.e. , the contents of this database table would n't be lost in the event of a server crash or server restart . If you would like only the schema to be preserved in the event of a server restart or crash , you should specify DURABILITY=SCHEMAONLY as shown in the script that follows .