Examining whether Troy Polamalu will be a first-ballot Hall of Famer
http://www.cbssports.com/nfl/eye-on-football/25143580/will-troy-polamalu-be-a-first-ballot-hall-of-famer

Examining whether Troy Polamalu will be a first-ballot Hall of Famer  The answer seems obvious : Troy Polamalu should cruise into the Hall of Fame on the first ballot in five years when he 's eligible for enshrinement . But it might not be that simple .  Working in Polamalu 's favor is the fact that he 's an incredibly talented guy who did some bananas thing on the football field . There are few combinations of athleticism and instinct in NFL history as Polamalu . He consistently managed to make plays most people ca n't while ending up in places on the field he had no business being in .  For all the amazing things Polamalu did on the field , there are more than a few factors working against him as a first-ballot Hall of Famer .  Talent Around Him : We detailed the death of the Steelers great defense earlier on Friday . Polamalu was essentially the last guy out the door in Pittsburgh . And while he was the centerpiece of the Steelers defensive rise there were more than  James Harrison , LaMarr Woodley , James Farrior and Larry Foote at linebacker make a safety 's job easier . So do Aaron Smith , Brett Keisel and Casey Hampton on the defensive line . If you 're a great quarterback on a great offense , you 're ( understandably ) getting more credit than the great player on a great defense .  Safety Struggles : Only 24 defensive backs are members of the Pro Football Hall of Fame , a surprisingly low number , especially when you consider the number of coaches ( 22 ) and contributors ( 21 ) enshrined . Of those 24 , only 6 are " true " safeties , with another four qualifying on the Hall 's site as hybrid CB/S types . Aeneas Williams ( class of 2014 ) was the most recent inductee and needed 10 years after he finished playing to make Canton . The last pure safety to get in was Willie Wood from the class of 1989 .  Durability : Polamalu 's insane , attacking style of play often led to him delivering fierce blows to opponents his 12 seasons , Polamalu only played a full 16 games in five years . ( It 's a testament to his talent that Polamalu 's average Approximate Value , even with injuries and a limited rookie season , was 9.75 . ) He could be dinged for missing games .  Logjam : Here 's the biggest issue . The problem with calling someone a " first-ballot " guy is to qualify as such you had to be so freaking good at football that you can leap any number of your peers or predecessors who are waiting in line to finally get into the hall .  For example , Brett Favre will jump to the front of the line when he 's eligible . Most guys , no matter the production , wo n't be afforded the freedom to chat and cut .  So you have to look at the players still eligible when Polamalu hits the HOF market in 2020 . We might be staring at " one receiver a year " for a while now with Marvin Harrison , Torry Holt and Isaac Bruce eligible and ) coming soon . Tim Brown continues to linger .  Kurt Warner will be in by then but he Favre are just going to push two more candidates into the future .  Ed Reed will be eligible a year before Polamalu and will give us a fantastic litmus test to whether or not Troy cruises in . Some might argue Reed 's the better safety . How the Hall treats John Lynch and Brian Dawkins ( 2017 ) will be interesting to see .  Polamalu is a Hall of Fame safety . He 'll get in . And it 's possible he gets in immediately , especially given the fondness of the media for him as a player and a person ( it helps regardless of what anyone says ) . But a first-ballot entry is far from guaranteed .