'Miracle' in Burleson: Book tells girl's remarkable story of healing
http://www.star-telegram.com/living/religion/article18229301.html

for years , the burleson girl 's life was defined by near-constant pain , endless hospital visits , invasive testing and marginally effective treatments . at one point , she told her mother she wished she would die so she could go to heaven , where there would be no more pain .  but three years ago , in december 2011 , something remarkable happened .  annabel fell headfirst 30 feet into a hollow cottonwood tree , where she was trapped for six hours . but she came away from the ordeal uninjured , telling a story about meeting jesus in heaven , and she suddenly tested symptom-free .  annabel 's mother , christy wilson beam , has come to the conclusion that miracle is the only word that applies when explaining annabel 's recovery .  annabel 's boston-based gastroenterologist , dr. samuel nurko , did n't call it a miracle , but he did release the girl from his care last november , noting that she " is completely asymptomatic , is leading a normal life and is not requiring any therapies in miracles from heaven . the book , out tuesday , is published by hachette .  the sony producing team behind the 2014 movie heaven is for real has already acquired the film rights . it 's tentatively scheduled for release the week of easter 2016 .  we chatted with beam about the book and about annabel ( whose middle name , fittingly , is faith ) .  first things first : how is annabel doing today ?  she is amazing . she is happy and healthy and thriving and on zero medication and eating everything in sight . her doctors have told us she does not need their care anymore . not only is she physically well , but she is also well mentally , emotionally and academically . in all areas of her life , she is above and beyond .  have you ever been given a sound scientific explanation for what prompted her recovery ?  they really do n't know . my husband , kevin , is a veterinarian and very scientifically minded . he went over everything , but he could  annabel 's problems involved nerve damage . her digestive system would not process solid food because her muscles would not fire synchronically , because the nerves could not give the message to the muscles .  kevin was thinking , " well , she did hit her head three times during the fall . maybe it jostled something in her nervous system . " but the best that anyone can do is guess . all i know is she is asymptomatic , on zero medication and released from the care of a specialist .  you write in the book that you initially resisted using words such ashealed and miracle.were you afraid that if you did , you might jinx it and that annabel 's symptoms would return ?  i literally felt like , " ok , when is the other shoe going to drop ? " but i eventually got past that fear . i realized that god does n't play that way . he does n't say , " now that i got your hopes up , surprise ! that was a good joke , was n't .  what 's the most convincing evidence you have that annabel went to heaven and came back ?  i talk in the book about how i had two miscarriages before we had annabel . we continued trying -- we had faith -- because we believed god was going to bless us and that we would be able to have another child . annabel was that child .  one of the miscarriages , i want to point out , was never a life created . it 's called a blighted ovum . the other was a life that was miscarried . so i find it intriguing that when annabel talks about going to heaven , she says she saw a little girl and asked who that girl was . and jesus told her , " that 's your sister . "  i find that interesting because anna knew i had two miscarriages , but i had never explained that one was a baby and one was not . but annabel did n't come back saying , " i saw two little girls . " she says she saw .  you write that kevin used a chain saw to carve a cross -- " a symbol of both suffering and salvation " -- into the trunk of the tree that trapped annabel . is it still standing on your property ?  less than two months ago , on a day when we had high , strong winds , the tree fell over . it literally snapped in two . it broke right above where he had carved the cross into it . that part has been cleared away . but the part from the cross down , that 's still standing .  what do your other daughters , 15-year-old abigail and 10-year-old adelynn , think of the attention annabel is getting ? they 're not jealous , are they ?  my youngest says she 's so grateful to have her sister back . she now has a best friend she can play with all the time . they 're inseparable . abbie is the one with the very old soul . she remembers how anna 's illness pulled us in so many different directions and how there 's going to be a lot of attention showered on anna . but they would never want to go back to the way it was before .  what do you hope readers will take away from miracles from heaven ?  i believe it can help other families . i know it would have comforted me if i had read a book like this , written by someone who had made it through what we were going through .  i also feel that every parent can relate , even if their child does n't have a chronic illness , because there 's always some kind of struggle that requires courage and faith .  the book  miracles from heaven : a little girl , her journey to heaven and her amazing story of healing goes on sale tuesday .  published by hachette , it is $24 .  meet the author  christy wilson beam 's book tour includes these north texas locations :  ? alsbury baptist church , burleson , april 29 , time tba  ? healing hands ministries , dallas , may 's group , dallas , may 5 , 9 a.m .  ? city on a hill , burleson , may 9 , time tba  annabel beam . the family photos were all short by ryan johnson in 2015 . ryan johnsonhandout