LA Times book club selects 'The Boys of Summer'
http://www.latimes.com/opinion/bookclub/la-times-book-club-boys-of-summer-march-htmlstory.html

the boys of summer , past and present by patt morrison " ' the boys of summer ' is the title of roger kahn 's seminal , beloved baseball book , the one he wrote 20 years after spending the long golden seasons with the team . " read more  event videos  event details  baseball season is upon us , and there 's no better time to pick up the los angeles times ' new book club selection , " the boys of summer " by roger kahn .  it 's a classic work of sports journalism that weaves together kahn 's memories of growing up within shouting distance of ebbets field , rooting for the dodgers with his father , and stories from his years covering the team during jackie robinson 's legendary reign as a player and civil rights activist .  about the book  the story of los angeles is , in so many ways , a story of trailblazers . from the los pobladores who founded the city , to those who have crossed deserts and oceans to the first moving pictures , los angeles gave them a home . one of southern california 's favorite sons and our country 's pioneers , jackie robinson , was no exception . he was born in georgia and moved here with his family as an infant . after distinguishing himself at john muir high school , pasadena city college and ucla , robinson went on to integrate major league baseball by taking the field as a brooklyn dodger .  journalist roger kahn grew up shouting distance from ebbets field and covered the dodgers for the new york herald tribune during the 1950s . as the brooklyn dodgers hit their stride , winning the world series in ' 55 , the team 's owner had visions of moving west . los angeles rolled out the welcome mat as the dodgers traded in dodging trolleys - the origin of their name - for freeways and fast cars .  in " the boys of summer , " kahn weaves together his childhood memories of rooting for the dodgers with his father , stories from his years covering the team during robinson 's and interviews with legendary players like robinson , pee wee reese , roy campanella and duke snider that reveal the lives they led off the field as the years went on .  this season 's boys of summer have just begun their season and it 's a perfect time to read the celebrated book that popularized the phrase -- borrowed , of course , from a dylan thomas poem . as kahn says , " baseball is for the leisurely afternoons of summer and for the unchanging dreams . " whatever this season holds , kahn will remind us what baseball means to us and how a game can change your life .  as an added incentive to join us in reading this month , we will be hosting an event at ucla 's hall of fame on april 26 . the author , roger kahn , dodger great maury wills , la times sports columnist bill plaschke and other special guests will be there in person for a great conversation about baseball and the dodgers ' role in our community , moderated by former us trade representative and @ @ @ @ @ @