Number of police officers killed on duty increased 89 percent last ...
http://fusion.net/story/132986/number-of-police-officers-killed-on-duty-increased-89-percent-last-year-fbi-says/

share the wealth  success !  early numbers released by the fbi today show that the number of police officers killed while on duty last year jumped 89 percent compared with 2013 .  last year , 51 officers were killed in the line of duty in the u.s. , compared with the 27 officers who were killed in 2013 -- which was the lowest number that had been recorded since 1980 , when the bureau started tracking police killings .  between 1980 -- 2014 , there has been an average of 64 officers killed per year .  the fbi 's preliminary report comes just after two officers in hattiesburg , mississippi , were shot and killed this weekend . four suspects are in custody in that case .  full details and final statistics about police shootings in 2014 will be released in the fall , said the fbi in a statement .  police shootings have received increased attention in the nation since two new york police department officers were killed in an ambush-style shooting in late december . that shooting happened involved in the death of eric garner .  in the aftermath of that shooting , the national fraternal order of police , a national police union with a membership around 300,000 , called for police killings to be included in national hate crimes statutes . a white house spokesman at the time said the proposal was " something that we 'll have to consider . "  three more nypd officers have been shot since the december incident , the latest of which happened late last month . the officer in that case , brian moore , died from the wound . a suspect , 30-year-old erik jansen , has been arrested and charged but has not yet offered a plea .  " about half as many cops are killed on the job today as in 1968 , despite the fact that there are significantly more cops on the street , " balko wrote . the numbers he cites are from the national law enforcement officers memorial fund , which has tracked officer deaths ( accidents and homicides grouped together ) since 1791 , when the group was founded million people since then , he notes .  out of the 51 police killed in 2014 , offenders used firearms in 46 cases , reports the fbi . thirty-two cases involved handguns , 11 involved a rifle , and shotguns were used in three incidents .  four officers were killed with " vehicles used as weapons , " and one officer was killed " with the offender 's personal weapons , " meaning that " hands , fists , feet , etc. " were used in the attack .  " by region , 17 officers died as a result of criminal acts that occurred in the south , 14 officers in the west , eight officers in the midwest , eight in the northeast , and four in puerto rico , " noted the fbi .  there was also a total of 44 officers who were accidentally killed while on duty last year , the preliminary report notes , a number which was down by five deaths since the previous year . the most common cause of an accidental death was car and motorcycle accidents . two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @