The Sound of Glass Is Another Winner By the Queen of Southern ...
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jackie-k-cooper/the-sound-of-glass-is-ano_b_7257786.html

the sound of glass is another winner by the queen of southern fiction  karen white 's skills as a writer continue to evolve with each new novel she creates . she has emerged as the queen of southern novelists thanks to books such as a long time gone , the time between and the tradd street series . now she tops them all with her story of love and enlightenment titled the sound of glass .  the sound of glass is written for every person who had a loving mother ; every child who had a time of doubt ; and every heart adrift in a sea of emotions . it is a story that enters the eyes , goes to the brain and settles in the heart . when you have finished with this story you will have a warm feeling for life in general .  merritt heyward is a young woman starting out on a new phase in her life . her husband cal has died after seven years of marriage and now merritt finds she has inherited his family home in merritt packs up and moves . upon her arrival and before she can even get settled into her new home there is a knock on her door . there she finds her stepmother loralee and her half brother owen .  merritt has never met her ten year old half brother because when her father married loralee , a woman much younger than he was , merritt severed her relationship with him . there has been no communication between the families so merritt is shocked to see them on her doorstep . still she is not an ogre so she allows them to stay " for a few days . " unknown to her their arrival will impact her life from that point forward .  the growing relationship between merritt and owen is one of the best white has ever created . owen is a child so unhappy with himself that he changes his name to rocky . he thinks that will make him more acceptable to his peers . his mother goes along with it because she adores him and will do anything and everything to give him the this must include a warm , loving relationship with his sister . she not only wants this , she is desperate for it .  there are so many factors at play in this story , some joyful , some tender , and some tragic . white lets them all play out at a perfect pace , making the reader prepared for each element that occurs in the progression of these lives .  some books you read for the pure pleasure of the writing . others you read for the emotions that are invoked . the sound of glass is a book that pays off in both areas . karen white dug deep to create this tale of the south and it is well worth all of her efforts . do n't miss this one !  the sound of glass is published by new american library . it contains 432 pages and sells for $26.95.