Shaky Knees 2015 Festival Review: From Worst to Best
http://consequenceofsound.net/2015/05/shaky-knees-2015-festival-review-from-worst-to-best/

shaky knees 2015 festival review : from worst to best  it was a sizzling three-day weekend in hotlanta .  share this :  two years ago , event promoter tim sweetwood turned heads nationwide when he opened the gates to shaky knees festival in atlanta 's cozy historic fourth ward park . the two-day lineup topped by the lumineers , band of horses , and drive-by truckers attracted both locals and out-of-towners and proved successful enough for a return . " i was n't trying to be bonnaroo or coachella , " sweetwood explained to ryan bray back in february . " it was n't like we were reaching for the sky . i just wanted to show people what i could do as far as my vision . "  the following year , the festival expanded to three days , nabbed heavy hitters like alabama shakes , the national , modest mouse , and a reunited the replacements , and shifted the action over to atlantic station . weather issues aside , the sprawling concrete parking lot accommodated the expansive crowds with ease an outdoor mall and expect to have any charm or character . when paul westerberg 's singing " left of the dial " and an old navy sign is looming beside the stage , it 's a little hard to lose yourself .  photo by debi del grande  yet , sweetwood 's a smart guy , and he reckoned with these issues . " you do n't want to do the same festival every year , " he continued . " you want to grow aesthetically , and you have to make sure your booking is on point so fans are just as excited as they were the year before . " and so , the young man 's quest to bring a proper music festival to the southern metropolis has arrived at its most exciting ( and pivotal ) chapter yet : it 's finally found a home . who knew it was just a shade away from downtown at a chunk of grass called central park .  prior to mother 's day weekend -- a trait that sweetwood digs ( " everyone has a mom , was concern that the festivities would overwhelm the area and the smallish , family-friendly park . that might have been the case if the festival did n't also take advantage of the adjoining renaissance park and the nearby parking lot for the atlanta civic center . unlike last year 's sprawl , this lot is framed by grassy hills and enough foliage to shadow as an expansion to the corresponding parks . needless to say , there was a lack of suburbanites walking by with groceries .  photo by debi del grande  the setup was very similar to how lollapalooza takes over chicago 's grant park . it was all in sections and fragments that were tied together by a united street ( in this case , pine ) . this added a much longer walk between the stages than years prior , but it was efficient enough and also suggested that shaky knees may be larger than sweetwood ever intended . like any of the big four fests , he 's created a city within a city , and there 's reason to believe that his vision has only a music festival but a destination music festival .  that revelation might frighten him .  " know that we 're committed to getting better each year , and not necessarily bigger either , " he contended . " the end goal is to sell out as a festival , but at half the capacity of the bonnaroos and the coachellas so that everyone there can enjoy it . we want the guy who is standing 20 feet back from the stage to enjoy it as much as the guy who is standing 200 feet back from the stage .  photo by carlo cavaluzzi  " it 's a business , do n't get me wrong , " he added . " the business needs to be profitable , but when your business gets too big , sometimes it 's harder to service the ticket buyer in a way that 's really satisfying . i think if we keep things running at a medium level , we can give our fans what they 're looking for . "  based on the crowds , which were never too would appear that shaky knees might simply be walking with shoes one size too big . if that 's sustainable , excellent . save for the notoriously long lines at the dozen local food trucks -- pretty much the only outlet for food , which is definitely a good thing -- there really were n't any hiccups in sweetwood 's current design . the monitors at the main stage were state-of-the-art , the buford tent was a godsend , and the various ice pops were tasty blessings .  photo by carlo cavaluzzi  whether or not sweetwood wants the growth is up for him to decide , but if he 's game , he 's certainly not alone . there were good vibes all weekend , supported and kept alive by a sea of people hungry for an honest music festival . if he 's smart , he 'll keep feeding ' em . and well .  so , what about the music ? click ahead to see the worst and the best of the fest . just know that " worst " is simply a designation of the . to quote professor henry newman , there were some that were simply ... " less than . "