University of South Carolina, Boeing are research partners
http://www.seattletimes.com/business/university-of-south-carolina-boeing-are-research-partners/

university of south carolina , boeing are research partners  columbia , s.c . ( ap ) -- boeing and the university of south carolina have announced a long-term research agreement that its leaders said will produce new and innovative technologies for the aerospace industry as well as the engineers to foster them .  university president harris pastides and boeing chief technology officer john tracy made the announcement thursday at the school 's mcnair center for aerospace research in columbia .  boeing , which is the world 's largest aerospace company , is expected to invest up to $5 million over the life of the agreement . the money should pay for up to two dozen research projects that are expected to improve boeing 's products , the officials said .  the projects will focus on such things as new ways to use carbon fiber composite materials , finding improved techniques for fusing aircraft parts , and improving the efficiency of structures through automated manufacturing .  boeing is the world 's largest aerospace firm . its workers assemble the company 's 787 dreamliner 6,000 people are employed at the complex . it also opened a research center in north charleston that focuses on composite fuselage and propulsion production .  the mcnair center is named in honor of the late space shuttle challenger astronaut ronald mcnair , a south carolina native killed in the 1986 explosion of the spacecraft . nearly 30 usc faculty members contribute to research projects at the center .  " this partnership with boeing puts the university of south carolina on the forefront of research that will lead to exciting new discoveries in the aerospace field , " pastides said in remarks prepared for the event .  pastides said he thinks the partnership will help transform south carolina 's economy .  " together with boeing , the mcnair center will work not only to innovate , but also educate future aerospace engineers and makes south carolina a choice destination for the aerospace industry , " the president said .  tracy said boeing hopes the partnership " will help ensure boeing can incorporate innovative technologies that will make our products even more capable , our workplaces even university officials said the mcnair center includes a production-level automated fiber placement machine , which allows for the testing of new materials and designs for industry partners . last year , the center announced a multiyear research contract with the dutch-based fokker technologies .