You can finally see the inside of Wayne Newton's estate - PHOTOS
http://www.reviewjournal.com/entertainment/arts-culture/you-can-finally-see-the-inside-wayne-newtons-estate-photos

you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton stands in front of the main house at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton speaks about his arabian horse collection at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about memorabilia including a photograph of his first automobile casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about memorabilia including his automobile collection as he tours the recently completed museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a costume from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  memorabilia from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and his pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a little time together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  charlie the penguin wanders in her pen at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  penguins jason , left , and charlie , wander in an enclosure at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  costumes from wayne newton 's performance career are displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  memorabilia from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton walks along a pathway at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a costume from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about the memorabilia displayed as he tours the recently completed museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a flight jacket personalized for wayne newton is seen displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and one of his arabian horses , " just a dream , " share a moment at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton poses in the interior of his now decommissioned 1969 fokker jet that is parked at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a costume from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  photographs from wayne newton 's trips with the uso visiting troops overseas is seen in a display case at the museum 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton with his wife , kathleen newton , share a moment as they tour the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about memorabilia including his automobile collection as he tours the recently completed museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton his arabian horses , " just a dream , " share a moment at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  the canoe from the movie " on golden pond " is displayed inside the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about the memorabilia displayed as he tours the recently completed museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a costume from wayne newton 's career is displayed at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  two swans grace one of the lakes in front of the main house at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  early wayne newton performing costumes , homemade by his mother , are display in the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and his pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a moment together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a photograph of wayne newton and ronald reagan is seen in a display case at the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  classic automobiles including rolls royces and bentleys are displayed at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  a collection of classic automobiles including rolls royces and bentleys are displayed at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas , is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  entertainer wayne newton speaks about the memorabilia displayed as he tours the recently completed museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  the decommissioned 1969 fokker jet is seen parked at casa in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and his pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a moment together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and his pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a moment together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a moment together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  wayne newton and his pet capuchin monkey , boo , spend a moment together while newton tours the museum at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  one of wayne newton 's arabian horses is returned to a stall at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  you can finally see the inside of wayne newton 's estate -- photos  one of wayne newton 's arabian horses peers out of a stall at casa de shenandoah on monday , sept. 14 , 2015 , in las vegas . the ranch at sunset and pecos roads in las vegas is scheduled to open for public tours on friday . ( david becker/las vegas review-journal )  and for anybody who 's driven past the gates of wayne newton 's estate near the corner of sunset and pecos roads and wondered what lay behind , finding out firsthand now is possible .  you can check out the photo gallery above , or , starting friday , the entertainer will offer public tours of his longtime las vegas estate . in addition to viewing newton 's car collection , stage outfits that go back to his childhood and gifts presented to him by other legendary entertainers , guests can view his prize-winning arabian horses , his menagerie of animals and the 52-acre ranch .  fans and followers of newton may be surprised that the estate is available for viewing at all . for the past several years , the property has been the focus of a legal battle between newton and investors . last fall , the property even had been put up for sale .  earlier this week , newton said that he and the partners have settled their differences .  " what we have done , the entire property is ours . we 've leased it for more years than i 'll ever see , and with the right and predetermined figure , which i ca n't go into , should we decide that we wanted to buy it back , that 's the figure and it 's a done deal , " newton said .  newton , who moved to las vegas in 1959 , purchased the first five acres of the estate in 1966 . the first house on the property -- the one in which newton , his parents and his brother then lived -- was built between 1966 and 1968 . newton purchased additional , construction of the property 's mansion began . it was completed in 1976 .  today , the estate has eight residences , habitat for a variety of animals and birds and several natural ponds . it also has two barns with stalls for newton 's 60 purebred arabian horses and three horse arenas .  guests will start at a visitors center across the street from the estate . there , they can purchase tickets for the tour -- packages range from $35 to $95 for adults -- view a film about newton , and take home a newton or casa de shenandoah souvenir , home decor , apparel and gift items from kat 's corner , named for newton 's wife , kathleen , or children 's items and pet accessories from lauren 's lair , named for newton 's daughter , with proceeds going to opportunity village .  visitors who opt to take the estate tour will board shuttles for a ride into the estate . there , they can view museum cases and displays containing mementos from newton 's performing career , which began when display are stage costumes he wore as a kid , one of which features , newton notes , fringe his mother took from a drape .  newton , in the form of recorded video played on high-definition screens , serves as tour guide . several exhibits feature newton 's long career as celebrity ambassador for the uso , traveling the united states and the world to entertain american troops .  in person , newton is an affable tour guide who possesses both great stories and a knack for telling them , even if the military-related photos and mementos can resurrect memories laden with emotion .  once while visiting troops in vietnam -- newton notes that he has visited troops in every u.s. conflict since vietnam -- " i came down with a bad case of the flu , " he recalls . he asked the nurse who was treating him if he could contact anybody on her behalf back home , just to " let them know i saw you and that you 're doing great and you 're very happy doing your job . "  the few weeks later , he made the call and learned from the mother that her daughter had been killed the previous week in a helicopter crash .  " well , my throat went to my stomach , as you can imagine , and i still get choked up to this day when i tell this story , " newton says .  " i said , ' i 'm so sorry to bother you at a time like this . ' she said , ' no , no , no , no , no . i 've been waiting for this call . ' she said , ' had you not called , it would have been the most devastating thing that could have happened , ' notwithstanding losing her , ' because you 're the last person that saw her happy and vivacious , doing what she loved doing , and no mother wants to hear more than that . so please do n't feel bad about calling . ' "  newton pauses . " it 's those kind of moments that will last me the rest of newton has collected over the years , including movie memorabilia and gifts presented to him by other legendary performers , including nat king cole , jack benny and elvis presley . there 's even an old-fashioned microphone from frank sinatra , inscribed to " injun " -- " he always called me that , " says newton , who has native american roots -- that says , " i got started with one of these when you were a papoose . much love ... "  visitors can view newton 's car collection -- he 's partial to rolls-royces and bentleys -- which includes cars once owned by johnny cash and liberace , and walk inside a private jet newton used for several years .  unlike some celebrity private jets , newton 's bears no name on its front . " i was going to call it ' lauren , ' after my daughter , and my wife looked at me and says , ' should n't it be named after me ? ' and the answer to that is , ' of course , darling , ' " newton to naming it . "  during their tour of the grounds , guests can see the arabian horses newton breeds . " our horses have produced over 96 national champions , " says newton , who admits that , in europe , some know him better as a horse breeder than as an entertainer .  guests can see the exotic animals -- including a capuchin monkey named boo , a pair of penguins , birds and wallabies -- who share the estate , and view the manicured lawns , lush landscaping and spring-fed ponds that dot it . guests who opt for higher-tiered tours also will get a peek into the estate 's mansion .  newton says that , when he bought the first parcel of what would become casa de shenandoah , he envisioned that it someday would become the working ranch/estate it is now . he 's excited about sharing it all with fans .  " it 's been a challenge , to say the least , " newton says . " but it 's all come together , and it 's come together beautifully so that says it all . "  comment section guidelines  the below comment section contains thoughts and opinions from users that in no way represent the views of the las vegas review-journal or gatehouse media . this public platform is intended to provide a forum for users of reviewjournal.com to share ideas , express thoughtful opinions and carry the conversation beyond the article . users must follow the guidelines under our commenting policy and are encouraged to use the moderation tools to help maintain civility and keep discussions on topic .