At Toronto, a Lack of Consensus Points to a Fascinating Oscar Season
http://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2015/09/toronto-film-festival-buzz

At Toronto , a Lack of Consensus Points to a Fascinating Oscar Season Ahead  Rumor has it that there may be a clear front-runner for which film will walk home with the festival 's People 's Choice Award , a populist prize that points to the fest 's most beloved film -- and , more often than not , the one that will go on to earn a best-picture Oscar nomination . But if audiences at Toronto are rallying around a single festival favorite , they have n't shared that knowledge with the critics .  Instead , the buzz at Toronto -- a festival where awards-season buzz usually seems shot out of a cannon in every direction -- has been a bit more scattershot , with some affection for Johnny Depp in Black Mass in one corner , some passionate supporters of Beasts of No Nation or Anomalisa in another , and a lot of people very excited about Spotlight , who still ca n't help but wonder if it 's too straightforward and smart for general audiences . At a dinner with other critics a five-star , **26;44;TOOLONG masterpiece -- a 12 Years a Slave or even Black Swan , the kind of thing you go to bat for when your critic 's group votes on their own awards at the end of the year .  So without a single film that audiences and critics alike will rally around out of Toronto , it may be the individual performances that get the biggest lift out of this year 's event . Already the leading actor and actress races are looking ungodly crowded : safe early bets like Depp , Matt Damon ( The Martian ) , Idris Elba ( Beasts of No Nation ) , and Brie Larson ( Room ) were warmly received , while some surprises emerged , like Alicia Vikander 's commanding lead role in The Danish Girl , Helen Mirren 's salty portrayal of Hedda Hopper in Trumbo , or Sandra Bullock 's engaging blend of comedy and tough dramatics in Our Brand Is Crisis . But all of those films and actors were , on some level , already on the Hollywood radar ; so far there 's nothing Moore seemingly out of nowhere into the best-actress race ( and , eventually , a win ) .  There are many , many promising movies left to come in the fall , and a few -- Todd Haynes'sCarol chief among them -- that have already screened at other festivals but skipped Toronto . And the lack of a consensus favorite at Toronto likely points to a more interesting awards season ahead , avoiding a situation where something like 12 Years a Slave or The Artist marches steadily from a splashy Toronto premiere to a seemingly inevitably best-picture win . For the first time in a few years , the awards race still seems fairly open even with Toronto 's premieres wrapping up . That uncertainty is uncomfortable for pushy Oscar pundits who wants to know everything first . . . but could make the next few months more fun for everyone else .