New allegation of sexual exploitation received by UN mission in ...
http://www.un.org/apps/news/story.asp?NewsID=51885

new allegation of sexual exploitation received by un mission in central african republic  15 september 2015 ? a new allegation of sexual exploitation in the central african republic ( car ) was received today by the united nations peacekeeping mission in the country , reportedly committed by one of its civilian staff last saturday .  the latest allegation follows 15 other possible cases of sexual exploitation and abuse by personnel of the un multidimensional integrated stabilization mission in car ( minusca ) that are currently under investigation .  " minusca has informed the country 's authorities of this allegation , " un spokesperson st ? phane dujarric told reporters . " the united nations office of internal oversight services has immediately taken steps to investigate this case , consistent with the secretary-general 's zero-tolerance policy on sexual exploitation and abuse . "  he also reiterated that minusca condemns in the strongest possible terms any instance of sexual exploitation and abuse committed by un personnel in car .  meanwhile , the secretary-general 's special representative and head of minusca , parfait onanga-anyanga , for human rights , zeid ra'ad al hussein , and the under-secretary-general for peacekeeping operations , herv ? ladsous .  " mr. onanga-anyanga reiterates his personal and institutional commitment to ensure that the rights and dignity of victims are protected , an investigation is carried out swiftly , and that justice is done , " mr. dujarric added .  also from car , the un humanitarian coordinator in the country , aur ? lien agb ? nonci , today said he is alarmed by the recent eviction of 114 people from the saint jean gabaladja displacement site in the capital , bangui .  according to the un , they have been temporarily moved to benzvi displacement site , where they have been provided with support to resettle .  " the humanitarian coordinator says he was concerned the evictions could signal the start of a wave of forced movements , with nine displacement sites hosting 2,700 people currently under threat of eviction , " mr. dujarric noted .  " he said that any movement of displaced populations must be based on a voluntary decision by the concerned of people affected , following the rules and principles of international humanitarian law and the kampala convention . "  there are 31 displacement sites in bangui alone hosting over 27,300 people , and the un estimates that some 368,000 people are also internally displaced .