A Day in the Life of NYC's Hottest iPhone Doctor
http://www.wired.com/2015/09/day-life-nycs-hottest-iphone-doctor/

a day in the life of nyc 's hottest iphone doctor  then one/wired  there 's a story behind every broken phone , and michel lavache has heard them all . like the one where some guy 's girlfriend found sexy photos of a stranger on his snapchat and tossed his phone out the car window , onto the cross bronx expressway . that was bad . or another time , when a man got fed up with his lady showing too much skin on instagram so he threw hers out of a third-story window . it shattered the screen to bits .  lavache is new york city 's iphone doctor . he 's a modern-day traveling medicine man , but instead of curing bodily ills , he fixes something that 's arguably even more precious in our phone-obsessed world . he spends most of his free time running around the city with his fix-it kit , patching up iphones that have seen better days . he is the apple genius bar gone mobile .  most people 's stories , lavache says , are run over by cars for far less lurid reasons . and toilets ? those things are basically iphone swimming pools . more often than not , the phones he sees have been knocked off tables or are the product of sheer clumsiness . the reason i met lavache involved one too many budweisers and what i 'd like to believe was an unreasonably hard bathroom floor .  the morning i meet lavache , he 's sitting in a corner table at a cafe in midtown manhattan , loosening the last of the tiny bolts on the frame of an iphone 6 . he 's using a screwdriver that looks like a barbie toy in his hands . " i 've seen a lot worse , " he says to me and terrence , the phone 's owner . for the past month terrence has been using a phone with a cracked screen , the result of -- he claims -- his wife knocking it off the bathroom counter while getting ready for work . " she likes to use my phone , " he explains . " she has a shatter pattern ; it starts in the upper righthand corner and fissures down to the bottom of the phone , making his screen look like a melting chunk of arctic ice . it looks bad , but lavache assures us it 's a simple fix . there 's no smashed camera , ruined port , or broken lcd screen -- he estimates it 's maybe a four on a scale of one ( totally usable ) to 10 ( wtf happened ! ? ) . " the top righthand corner is the worst spot for breaks , " lavache explains , adding that most of the time it 's a bent frame that pinches the glass and causes it to crack , not a direct blow to the glass itself . " it 's probably 80 percent of the breaks i see . "  it takes lavache 10 minutes to perform the minor surgery : he removes 14 screws , gingerly disconnects the sensors and ribbon cables from the lcd panel , swaps in a new sheet of glass , and returns the screws to their holes using the tiny who considers the newly smooth piece of glass before thrusting the phone into the air like a trophy and exclaiming , " it 's like a brand new phone ! " he pays lavache in cash -- $110 for the fix -- and heads back across the street to his office with his brand not-quite-new phone .  michel lavache . laurent chevalier  early fall , right around when apple announces its new phones , is lavache 's busiest time of the year . people are anxious to get their old phones fixed so they can trade them in and make some money . " last year i had to use my vacation time to see people all day morning to evening , " he says of the post-apple event buzz .  lavache charges $110 to fix an iphone 6 screen , $85 for a iphone 5s , $70 for a 5 , and $45 for a 4s . he says an iphone 6 screen costs him around $75 from his supplier in new jersey , who gets them from someone in china . that 's $35 in revenue , which can be anywhere from $10 to $15 . not bad for 20 minutes of work . he says he almost makes enough on the hustle to quit his job ( he works in it at the new york times ) and do this full time . but he does n't have any plans to do that . " what if the next iphone has sapphire glass ? " he asks . " then what ? "  at least for now , business is booming . that should n't surprise you : think about how many of your friends are carrying $700 mini-computers with jacked up screens they intend to fix at some point . the rest of the technology world might change at a rapid-fire pace , but if there 's one thing you can count on , it 's that someone , somewhere just dropped a phone . and most of those people lack the combination of time , patience , and cash it takes to get it fixed at the apple store . this is bad news for apple , but great news for enterprising tinkerers rapid adoption of smartphones and customer 's willingness to break their warranty for the sake of convenience and price .  lavache is far from the only guy doing this . services like icracked have raised major money from investors , and ibis market reports that cell phone repair is a $4 billion industry . lavache says he has competitors in the city , but he 's hardly worried . " there 's enough people breaking their phones that we can all be busy morning through night , " he says .  even on a slow day , lavache will fix at least a half-dozen screens . fridays are busiest , which is partly the result of thursday night drinking ( alcohol is iphone enemy number one ) , but also because people want their phone working for the weekend . " people hate going on vacation with a broken phone , " lavache says . he keeps a meticulously-organized schedule of his appointments and divides his time into 15-minute blocks . he 'll allocate an extra 15 to 30 minutes to get from one location to next , and n't go . no office buildings ( check-in takes too long ) , no bars ( too dark ) , and no apartments ( people are weird ) . instead , he has 10 locations around the city -- mostly coffee shops -- where he 'll meet clients . he can fix things other than screens , but screens is the big business .  today he has nine appointments . after the meeting with terrence we hop on the a train and head downtown to meet juliette and her nanny . at a tourist-packed starbucks across from one world trade center , juliette , 14 , explains that there 's really no story to be told . she was just walking along , and her iphone 6 slipped out of her hand .  lavache has heard this a lot since the 6 and 6 plus came out . " the edges of the iphone 6 are rounded off , " he says . that , combined with the brushed stainless steel , makes your phone as slippery as wet bar of soap . the bigger size is even worse palm . " you definitely could n't have a 6 plus . "  this is lavache 's second time fixing juliette 's phone , but she 's not particularly butterfingered . he has a lot of repeat customers ; people break their iphones like clockwork .  " did i fix your phone on the way to the airport once ? " he wonders aloud . " did you miss that flight , by the way ? " he did , and she did .  lavache fixes an iphone . laurent chevalier  repairing a phone is a technical skill , and lavache is well-equipped , what with his degree in electrical engineering and it job . but running a successful repair business is about more than just knowing which screw goes where . his business thrives or dies on yelp and personal referrals ( i found out about lavache from a friend who also found out about him from a friend ) . he 's really in the customer service industry .  he currently has a five-star rating on yelp that he 's pretty damn proud of this , he 's gotten 88 reviews , all five stars except for a one-star rating from jon d. in 2014 that he probably wishes he could scrub off his page . these public ratings are important because to most people , lavache is a total stranger . letting a genius bar employee dissect your phone is one thing -- paying a man called the iphone doctor upward of $100 to do it requires a whole new level of trust . and the truth is , meeting him does feel a little illicit , as though you 're sneakily subverting the apple gods .  but lavache is easy-going and conversational . he does n't push people to talk , but is happy to listen if they do . lavache might not realize it , but he 's constantly maintaining a delicate balance with his customers . he 's claiming responsibility for something that 's tied so closely to personal happiness , which means he 's often entangled in other people 's strange neuroses . he 's gotten teary 2 am calls from people freaking out about a broken screen . that have text messages and photos from loved ones who had recently died . fixing iphones is a little like speed dating ( or speed therapy ) . " the best part of doing repairs sometimes is meeting 30 people a week in new york , " he says . " i just went to a birthday party of customer . we 're cool now because i fixed her phone . several times . "