Inside the Ring: Details of Chinese space weapons revealed
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/oct/14/inside-the-ring-details-of-chinese-space-weapons-r/?page=all

ask congress  a forthcoming report by the congressional u.s.-china economic and security review commission provides new details of china 's space-weapons programs , dubbed counterspace arms , that are aimed at destroying or jamming u.s. satellites and limiting american combat operations around the world .  two direct-ascent missiles capable of hitting satellites in both lower and higher orbits are under development , the sc-19 and the dn-2 . anti-satellite missile tests were carried out as recently as last year .  the high-orbit dn-2 can hit u.s. global positioning satellites but appears more suited for blowing up u.s. intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance satellites . the dn-2 could be deployed in five to 10 years .  " these systems consist of a satellite armed with a weapon such as an explosive charge , fragmentation device , kinetic energy weapon , laser , radio frequency weapon , jammer or robotic arm , " the report says .  the co-orbital arms maneuver in space close to satellite targets and then deploy weapons to disable or destroy them . they also can crash into satellites or , a chinese miniature imaging satellite passed within 28 miles of the international space station with no notification , in what the report said was a simulated co-orbital anti-satellite attack .  the commission report , to be publicly released next month , says china 's people 's liberation army believes demonstrating capabilities that can damage or destroy satellites is important to deterring adversaries , and that the anti-satellite threat is a more credible deterrent than nuclear arms .  " the pla assesses u.s. satellites are critical to the united states ' ability to sustain combat operations globally , " the report says . " pla analysis of u.s. military operations states that ' destroying or capturing satellites and other sensors will deprive an opponent of initiative on the battlefield and make it difficult for them to bring their precision-guided weapons into full play . ' "  the pla estimates 50 u.s. surveillance satellites , along with drones and manned aircraft , provided 70 percent of battlefield communications in the 1990s operations in kosovo .  china is also planning military cyberattacks that can take control of satellites by military researchers have written that during a conflict , the pla will " attempt to conduct computer network attacks against u.s. satellites and ground-based facilities that interact with u.s. satellites , " the report says .  " if executed successfully , such attacks could significantly threaten u.s. information superiority , particularly if they are conducted against satellites with sensitive military and intelligence functions , " the report says . " for example , access to a satellite 's controls could allow an attacker to damage or destroy the satellite ; deny , degrade , or manipulate its transmissions ; or access its capabilities or the information , such as imagery , that can be gained through its sensors . "  the report said chinese hackers probably were behind several computer attacks against u.s. space assets , including a september 2014 hack of national oceanographic and atmospheric administration satellite and weather service systems .  china also has acquired a number of electronic ground-based jammers for use against satellites , and in 2006 china fired a high-powered laser that temporarily disrupted a u.s. satellite , the report said .  . a nuclear detonation in low-earth orbit would create a damaging electromagnetic pulse that could disrupt unshielded satellites .  a copy of the draft report was obtained by inside the ring and is the latest publicly available draft . the final report will be released next month .  new russian cruise missile operational  russia conducted a flight test of it newest long-range cruise missile on sept. 11 , a month before firing the missiles from the caspian sea into syria as part of moscow 's campaign in support of president bashar assad 's regime .  the sept. 11 flight test of an ssn-30a missile , known by nato as kalibr , demonstrated capabilities similar to the u.s. navy 's tomahawk cruise missile . the kalibr test missile traveled some 2,000 kilometers , according to defense officials familiar with the test , or about 1,200 miles .  the missile was tested earlier in august when u.s. officials said it was nearing deployment . the new missile is regarded as a major threat and can be armed with either nuclear or conventional warheads .  less than a 7 fired 26 kalibr missiles against syrian rebel bases in northern and eastern parts of the country . four of the missiles reportedly malfunctioned and landed in iran .  but the 22 other missiles struck what moscow said were 11 targets in syria traveled over 1,000 miles , and traversed through both iraqi and iranian airspace , showcasing a new long-range strike capability by the russian military .  under president vladimir putin , moscow is engaged in a major military buildup of mainly new nuclear weapons and missile delivery systems .  the first use of the kalibr in combat operations has prompted nato military intelligence analysts to upgrade its status to " deployed . "  there are concerns within the alliance russia is using the missile strikes on syria as a not-so-subtle message to nato that it could also use the missile against eastern european targets , including members of the western alliance .  russian officials have issued veiled threats over nato 's plans to bolster military forces in the east , specifically poland and the baltic states of latvia , lithuania and estonia .  government cyberattacks on u.s. information systems as having the effect of " robbing us blind . "  northcom commander adm . william gortney said in remarks to the atlantic council he does not expect the recent agreement reached between president obama and chinese leader xi jinping to work . china 's industry is heavily dependent on chinese cyber economic espionage , he said .  asked if the informal u.s.-china agreement banning cyber economic espionage will work , the admiral replied : " they 're going to have to show me that they 're going to stop . i just do n't see that happening . "  the report lists nine major cyberattacks originating from china , including the case of six u.s. companies involved in nuclear power , metals and solar power that led to the indictment of five pla officers , and a u.s. postal service cyberattack in november 2014 that compromised social security numbers of 800,000 postal workers .  other chinese cyberattacks involved the anthem health care attack where hackers pilfered medical records on 80 million customers ; cyber attacks in april on u.s. websites ; and the office of personnel management attack that stole sensitive data on some 22 million federal workers .