5 breakfast ideas to get you out of bed in the morning
http://www.cnn.com/2015/10/14/foodanddrink/breakfast-ideas-simple-easy/

1 . avocado , avocado , avocado  ripe , creamy and oh-so-versatile , the popularity of the humble avocado has soared in recent years .  not only does it pair perfectly with bacon , but research suggests avocado can actually help to speed up your metabolism . the unique combination of essential fatty acids , monounsaturated fats and antioxidants keeps blood vessels clear and inflammation down , say experts .  new york-based instagrammer minimalist pantry suggests smashing it on a bagel with a fried egg . while san antonio , texas-based food lover sarah baade slices it into a breakfast taco , with scrambled egg , grated cheese , diced pepper and red onion . yum .  2 . try inventive combinations  take a hint out of mexican instagrammer virginia guzman 's book and try adding olives to ham and cheese to give your sandwich a salty kick .  and who says you ca n't eat cake for breakfast ? food bloggers may lee and may ling from kuala lumpur made this healthy breakfast cake by mixing yoghurt with apple and tea , tey tarik.  3 . see your fridge resourcefully  breakfast can be a meal , or it can be a vehicle for reinventing leftovers into new taste combinations .  instagrammer michaela thai in frankfurt whipped up this new version of middle eastern favorite shakshuka with leftover roast chicken -- adding tinned tomatoes , paprika , chili and egg to the shredded chicken and veg .  last night 's rice clogging up your fridge ? fry it with onion , cumin , chili and turmeric for a quick version of uggani , a light but filling rice breakfast popular in the rayalaseema region of southern india .  top it off with lemon juice , coriander , a few peanuts and hey presto -- you 'll have an exotic morning meal like the one pictured here by mohan k. reddy on twitter . he enjoyed it alongside some mirchi bajji -- deep fried green chilies stuffed with potato .  4 . go international  we 'd all love to hop on a plane for breakfast , but in today 's cosmopolitan cities chances are you probably international flavors -- like this filipino breakfast of a coconut and rice wrap from billy tejada .  failing that , bring global classics to your own kitchen with a spanish tortilla , like this one here enjoyed in san sebastian by food fanatic prachi joshi . fry finely sliced onion and potato in a non-stick pan , pour over beaten eggs and top with a lid . wait until the base is cooked before using a plate to flip it over .  or perhaps you have a sweeter tooth , in which case you 'd do well to recreate billy sountornsorn 's london brunch of pancakes with ricotta , honey and fruit .  now that 's what we call a breakfast worth getting up for .  next challenge : we 're onto lunch . take the #cnnfood challenge and tell us what a typical lunch is where you are in the world , by tagging your pics , vines and vids with our hashtag . you could be featured on cnn.com.