Cuyahoga County to finance $60 million of upgrades at homes of ...
http://www.cleveland.com/naymik/index.ssf/2015/10/cuyahoga_county_seeks_to_finan.html

favorite schools  favorite teams  cuyahoga county to finance $60 million of upgrades at homes of cleveland indians and cavs  cleveland cavaliers vs . golden state warriors , june 11 , 2015  cuyahoga county is preparing to sell bonds to finance $60.4 million worth of repairs and upgrades to progressive field and quicken loans arena that include a new scoreboard for the cleveland indians and a new roof for the cavs . the county plans to repay the bonds with money from the sin tax . ( chuck crow/the plain dealer ) ( chuck crow , the plain dealer )  the teams have said they hope the sin tax money will be split evenly between the three stadiums .  cleveland , ohio -- cuyahoga county government is preparing to finance $60.4 million worth of repairs and upgrades to progressive field and quicken loans arena that include a new scoreboard for the cleveland indians and a new roof for the cavs .  county executive armond budish 's administration sponsored and introduced legislation tuesday to cover these costs through the sale of $65 's latest 20-year tax on alcohol and cigarettes , which voters approved in 2014 .  this is the first proposed distribution of the so-called sin tax that is expected to raise $260 million for progressive field , quicken loans arena and the firstenergy stadium . the county began collecting the renewed sin taxes in august .  the $60.4 million is the cost of repairs and upgrades that the county is obligated to cover per its respective leases with the indians and the cavs . the non-profit gateway economic development corp . technically owns the baseball and basketball facilities and enforces the team leases on behalf of the county . gateway 's board already has vetted the proposed improvements and agreed they fall within the lease obligations . ( you can see the detailed list below . )  cavaliers owner dan gilbert has fronted the money for some high-profile improvements at the q that gateway is obligated to cover , such as the new scoreboard and sound system that were installed before the start of last season . the team is already working on replacing the flat and curved costs .  prior to its 2015 season , the cleveland indians paid for $26 million of upgrades that taxpayers were not required to cover per the lease . but taxpayers are on the hook for the new scoreboard and sound system , flooring in balcony areas and a new paint job . these are among the upgrades that will be paid for by the bond sale .  the city of cleveland owns firstenergy stadium , home of the browns . the team and the city recently completed a two-year , $125 million renovation . the browns fronted the total amount and is committed to absorbing $95 million of the changes . the city is kicking in $30 million over the next 15 years . the city 's portion comes from its general fund , not money raised from the sin tax . neither the browns -- nor the city -- will receive any money from the current bond sale proposal .  the cavs and indians have previously shared an estimated $135 million worth of fixes they are expected to request from sin tax money over the next decade renovation plan , the browns ' front office has not detailed what repairs it expects the city to cover in the future .  the teams have said they hope the sin tax money will be split evenly between the three stadiums . but that decision ultimately rests with county council , which has yet to make a decision .  the details of the proposed bond financing -- such as the interest costs and the length of the financing deal -- have not been disclosed . the legislation goes before a committee of the whole council later this month , at which time gateway will need to layout more details .  gateway board chairman timothy ofttermatt could not be immediately reached . but the post will be updated with any details he can provide .  progressive field :  sound system $4,760,000  high steel painting $2,184,230  concrete resurfacing $3,000,000  food service equipment $1,426,757  scoreboard system $16,083,560  mechanical hvac $5,201,340  fire suppression $83,992  suite/press box glass $1,760,168  suite/balcony flooring $59,582  surveillance system $2,856,000  quicken loans arena  flat and cavs )  security system $3,090,000 ( cost likely to be fronted by cavs )  scoreboard $9,357,611 ( cost fronted by cavs )  video production $4,645,828 ( cost fronted by cavs )  sound system $1,800,000 ( cost fronted by cavs )  source : gateway  this post was updated to clarify that county executive armond budish , not county council , sponsored the legislation for proposed bond sale .