Chef Pat Donahue of Anthony's Restaurants infuses wonderful fall ...
http://www.seattletimes.com/sports/chef-pat-donahue-of-anthonys-restaurants-infuses-wonderful-fall-ingredients-to-coho-salmon-recipe/

this season we have weekly recipes and advice through october on how to cook up and dish out a wide variety of local seafood by experts like chef maria hines , owner of tilth , golden beetle and agrodolce restaurants ; chef pat donahue with anthony 's restaurant ; chef taichi kitamura , owner of sushi kappo tamura on eastlake in seattle ; executive chefs sarah scott , ken sharp , matt brandsey , jonathan garcia , and wes hood along with other chefs from el gaucho , aqua by el gaucho and the inn at el gaucho ; outdoor cookbook author tiffany haugen ; head chef chris gabel at tini bigs and hula hula in downtown seattle ; tackle shop owners ; local seafood-market owners ; and fishing guides and charter services .  recipes are posted every wednesday through oct. 28 so if you have a recipe you 'd like to reel-in my way , please let me know and i will post them and will even test it out with my family and friends at the dinner table .  here is advice from :  silver salmon ( otherwise known as coho salmon ) are harvested commercially in the pacific ocean from alaska to oregon . they are also a very popular sport fish in the puget sound .  silvers have dark metallic blue or greenish backs with silver sides and a light belly . it is known for its red/orange meat and its richness of flavor . its fat content is slightly lower than that of king or sockeye salmon .  when purchasing silver salmon , you 'll want to look for them in late summer to early fall . you 'll want to seek out ones with shiny scales and bright eyes . if you press the flesh of the fish with your finger , it should bounce right back . the aroma of the fish should never be " fishy " - it should resemble clean , salty water .  when cooking silvers , they are medium in texture so they hold up well to poaching , saut ? ing or plank grilling . silvers are lower in fat content and can benefit from a gentle cooking method since this fish does have a lower fat content than others , be mindful that it does not dry out during the cooking process .  chef pat loves to embrace the fall season by accompanying the wild silver with chanterelle risotto and a corn succotash .  heat grill to medium high . clean and oil grill well . coat salmon with oil and season with kosher salt and pepper . place salmon on grill ( presentation side down ) until about 60 percent done or until you can see the fat coming out of the side of the filet .  flip salmon and continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 135 degrees . remove from heat and top with citrus butter . let sit covered until the internal temperature reaches 145 degrees .  to serve , divide risotto into serving bowls and sprinkle chanterelles around the perimeter . place cooked salmon on top of risotto and drizzle with excess citrus butter . top with succotash , chives and diced peppers .  heat oven to 375 degrees . clean mushrooms with towel or brush . trim the oil and season with salt and pepper . roast in the oven until golden . can be done 1-2 hours ahead of time and held at room temperature .  risotto  heat chicken base and water in separate pan . keep warm over low heat . in separate pan over medium heat , add butter and add olive oil . once butter has melted , add onions and cook until translucent ( 1-2 minutes ) . add wine and reduce until the liquid is half its original volume . stir in rice . add 1 cup of chicken base and water mixture and simmer until liquid is completely absorbed . repeat with one cup each of chicken liquid until each cup is completely absorbed and all the broth is used . rice should be a creamy consistency . stir in lemon juice and lemon zest . this can be prepared up to 1 day ahead or just prior to serving .  citrus butter  ingredients  ? pound butter  1 tbsp. orange juice concentrate  1 ? tsp. lime zest  ? tsp. lemon zest  ? tsp. and combine with all other ingredients . process in food processor or blender until smooth . refrigerate until ready for use . can be made up to three days ahead or earlier if stored in freezer.