Lions' London trip part of NFL's expansion strategy
http://www.freep.com/story/sports/nfl/lions/2015/10/29/detroit-lions-nfl-expanding-london/74846406/

LONDON - Barry Sanders played his only football game in London 22 years ago , when the Lions met the Dallas Cowboys in the American Bowl at Wembley Stadium .  Sanders did n't play much in that game -- it was the exhibition season , and it ended tied at 13 -- but the Hall of Fame running back was reminded how much he enjoyed that trip was when he returned for a promotional appearance on behalf of the NFL this week .  " There was certainly a buzz coming over here , " Sanders said , " about just the whole novelty of being here and being in a different country . "  The novelty of American football in London has long since worn off , but with the NFL 's International Series now in its ninth season , the buzz about the league 's global foothold is growing louder by the day .  The Lions and Kansas City Chiefs will meet Sunday at Wembley Stadium in the 14th game of the series , teams with a combined 3-11 record that will 80,000 .  The NFL has agreed to host at least two regular-season games in England through 2027 , and the league will be branching out to other countries soon .  Mark Waller , the NFL 's executive vice president of international , said Mexico and Germany are the next frontiers for a league looking to grow its already $12-billion annual pie .  " I 'd be very disappointed if we were n't playing in ( one of those countries in ) 2017 , and I 'd like to think we might be able to pull it off in 2016 , " Waller told the Free Press in a phone interview last week . " That 's the goal . We 're trying to see if we can get it done in 2016 , in one of those two . But if not , 2017 for sure . "  After playing exhibition games in Berlin , Tokyo and even Goteborg , Sweden , for years , the league decided to focus on London about a decade ago with much success .  Sky Sports , the primary sports on a regular basis in 2007 , and the country now gets as many as six live games a week .  Thirteen of the 14 International Series games at Wembley Stadium have sold out , and beginning in 2018 , the league will host two games a year at the Tottenham Hotspur soccer club 's new stadium .  The NFL this month extended its agreement to play at least two games a year at Wembley through 2020 ( with an option for five more years ) , and the league is planning a fourth international game next fall after growing to three games for the first time this year .  " There 's always been a fan base here and a pretty dedicated fan base , but once we started getting the regular-season games in 2007 , I think that accelerated everything , " said Neil Reynolds , a former public relations manager for the NFL in Europe and the current co-presenter of the league on Sky Sports . " You see it across the board . Our TV numbers are up every year . Player-participation numbers ( but it all started once we started getting the real thing . "  Waller said the NFL 's focus in London always has been with an eye toward creating " enough of a fan demand to support a full season . "  And while that may or may not involve eventually having a franchise overseas , the league has done its best to slowly ramp up and test the demand for its product .  In 2013 , the NFL played two regular-season games in London for the first time . Last year , the league moved the start time of one its London games -- the Lions ' 22-21 win over the Atlanta Falcons -- from an evening to an afternoon kickoff . And this year , the league is playing games on back-to-back weekends for the first time and doing so in competition with a beloved event in the country , the Rugby World Cup .  Next year , one NFL team could play two games in London -- one home and one road -- so the league can better assess the logistics of having a out of the realm of possibility for the NFL to play as many as eight games in London by 2025 and/or have a team based outside of the United States .  " I would like to think that we would see both , " Waller said . " I would like to think that we 'd see a team outside of the U.S. , and I 'd like to think that we were playing multiple games in other markets . I think the globalization of the sport is incredibly important for the sport , and to be part of the global sporting landscape is a must these days . So , I 'd like to think that by the time we got to 2025 we 'd be in a very different place . "  The likelihood of London having its own franchise seems farfetched to some who 've watched the league struggle to return to Los Angeles for 20 years , not to mention players who sometimes can do without the one trip abroad they may make a year .  " I would n't want to be the Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford . " But I think as far as the fan base and the people , I think they would embrace it . Every time we 've come over here they 've had great turnout . It seems like people enjoy the game . So from that prospective , I think it would be cool . But as far as how you 'd work out home and away games and things like that , that 's something I do n't want to have to figure out . "  " I doubt ( guys would want to play for a London team ) , " receiver Lance Moore said . " I mean , specifically , guys who have families . Are you going to move your family to London and live in London where most people have never been before ? I think that would be doing a lot of guys a disservice when it 's monetarily based because , let 's be honest , that 's what it 's about . It 's not about building a fan base . Building the fan base is building challenges to having a franchise overseas , operationally and competitively . Barriers such as fan interest -- about 90% of the fans for Sunday 's game will come from the U.K. , with about 4% coming from the rest of Europe and 4% from the United States -- and having the proper facilities , however , already have been cleared .  In Germany and Mexico , where the league played a regular-season game 10 years ago in front of more than 103,000 fans , there are other issues the league must solve before going down a London-type road .  Germany has several world-class soccer stadiums from hosting the World Cup that would be natural fits for an NFL game , but the league does not currently have an office in the country or enough support on the ground to parlay one or more games there into long-term success .  In Mexico , broadcast rights , fan support and an NFL presence are not an issue , but the country 's Azteca Stadium needs upgrading . Once the stadium is built out to support the staging of the game almost certainly will return . Until then , the focus remains on London , and the NFL 's intentions are hard to miss .  " The appetite is definitely there , " Waller said . " And I think that 's true of sports fans around the world now . That they want to be involved in the sports that matter around the world , and so we 're a logical choice for those fans . "