Victoria Beckham: How Her Line of 10 Dresses Became a Fashion ...
http://www.glamour.com/inspired/women-of-the-year/2015/victoria-beckham

victoria beckham : how her line of 10 dresses became a fashion empire  victoria beckham is a woman of the year because ... " she 's bold enough to curate a style all her own . she 's a loyal , giving friend -- and funny , funny , funny ! " -- actress eva longoria  posh perfectionist : " i always wanted to work in fashion ; it was always my passion , " says beckham , 41 , photographed in the london office of the empire she created . victoria beckham dress . manolo blahnik pumps .  when i first met victoria beckham , two decades ago , the world had never heard of the spice girls . she and her bandmates stormed into my office at a u.k. tv network and gave a jaw-dropping rendition of " wannabe . " although not as bold as her spice peers -- everyone else jumped up on the desks -- victoria was the one who assured me they were going to make it . " we 're not going to stop till it happens course , a global phenomenon . and the world got to know posh spice , a camera-ready superstar who married an equally famous and sexy brit , david beckham ( they met after one of his soccer games ) . after the spice girls -- amicably -- went their separate ways , beckham had a brief solo career but decided to devote most of her time to being a mom . then in 2008 , after working with a sunglasses company and a denim brand ( and even modeling on a milan runway ) , she made the bold decision to launch her own fashion line .  just your average career change ? hardly . the fashion world is not particularly kind to celebrities who decide they want to become designers . beckham debuted her collection in the quietest , humblest way possible : in a small hotel room with intimate one-on-ones with the press , placing the emphasis on her clothes , not her celebrity . it was a smart , smart tactic . " we have met with many celebrities who aspire to get into fashion , but energy it takes , " says jim gold , president and chief merchandising officer of the neiman marcus group . " victoria was different . there are no shortcuts in this business , and she was willing to roll up her sleeves . " her hard work and meticulous design have turned that first collection of 10 dresses into a fashion empire worth a reported $57 million . the silhouettes of her collections are so classic and flattering that just about every celeb in hollywood -- from oprah to jennifer lawrence -- has a vb dress in her closet . the label has won the respect of industry insiders too : she 's been awarded multiple british fashion awards , including two for brand of the year .  beckham 's gift is to make clothes that women want to wear . " women respond to her clothes because she lives a life that they understand , " says friend and vogue editor-in-chief anna wintour . " she 's an incredibly busy woman , she 's the mother of four kids , she 's very much a partner to david , for women who are working , traveling , balancing , juggling all sorts of things at the same time . " she tries to teach her children , sons brooklyn , romeo , and cruz and daughter harper , some of what she 's learned : " nothing ever came naturally to me , " she says . " i was never the cleverest , never best at anything . but we always tell our children that if you work hard and believe in yourself , you can do what you want . "  and she 's showing them that when you 're successful , you give back -- period . in 2014 beckham became an international goodwill ambassador for unaids and since then she has raised more than $4 million to benefit hiv and aids charities including amfar , the elton john aids foundation , and mothers 2 mothers . " motherhood puts us all on one level , " she says . " i just felt this real pull to help . " she does n't simply lend her name or write a check : she 's visited by the disease . " victoria 's helping us to reach those millions of people out there we can not reach , " says michel sidib ? , executive director of unaids . " she 's a person of compassion , and she 's opening new doors . "  fellow bandmate melanie brown ( a.k.a . scary spice ) is not surprised in the least by her friend 's successes . " she 's broken the mold , " she says . " and she 's the funniest , naughtiest , dirtiest pal to sit next to at dinner . " ( admits beckham : " i like to ring the tequila bell . " )  indeed , when i see beckham these days , what strikes me is the newfound ease with which she juggles her many roles . but her mission , she says , has never really changed : " i did have to find myself and my confidence . and i want to make other women feel like the best version of themselves . that 's the same message as the spice girls . it live by : " work hard , stay focused , be appreciative , and really , really go for it . i was told i could n't do lots of things , so if i can do it , you can . "