Why you should never buy a home on the first of the month
http://www.cbsnews.com/media/why-you-should-never-buy-a-home-on-the-first-of-the-month/

why you should never buy a home on the first of the month  buying a first home is simultaneously exciting , stressful and confusing . once you have scrutinized open-house listings , scraped together the dough and performed the required inspections , there is still the down-and-dirty business of transferring the home from seller to buyer .  even the most seemingly mundane details of buying a new home have consequences . that includes the day of the month you choose for closing .  title agents and mortgage brokers often steer homebuyers toward the earlier days of the month . but cash-strapped first-time homebuyers might find that a closing on the first day of the month is a bad move .  prepaid interest costs are higher  istockphoto  mortgage interest is paid in arrears , after the month has ended . this is an unexpected change for many renters , who are accustomed to prepaying their housing expense . because mortgage interest is calculated based upon the outstanding principal mortgage balance , it is more accurate for a mortgage lender to calculate interest this affect a new homebuyer 's closing costs ? to get a new buyer up to date with the current month 's interest payments , a mortgage lender asks a borrower to prepay the first month 's worth of interest , and includes that first mortgage payment interest in the overall mortgage loan closing costs .  " if you close on a home at the end of the month , you can take advantage of the prorated costs . from a cash-flow perspective , your out-of-pocket costs would be lower , " said andrew mccrea , account executive with pmbc group in beverly hills , california .  when the time comes to close on a mortgage , borrowers are expected to pay accrued interest from the time they close through the last day of the month , mccrea said : " therefore , the closer to the end of the month that you close , the less interest you will have to pay . "  for example , assume you have a loan of $240,000 and an annual interest rate of 4.5 percent . the daily interest rate days ) . multiply the daily interest rate by the principal loan balance and you will end up with the amount you will pay in interest per day : $240,000 x 0.00012329 = $29.60 paid in interest per day  if you close on the first of the month , you will pay daily interest on the loan for every day within the month . if there are 30 days in the month , you will pay $888 in prepaid interest at closing : 30 days x $29.60 = $888  if you close on day 30 of a 30-day month , you will pay interest for one day , or $29.60 : 1 day x $29.60 = $29.60  for a new homebuyer , it can make a sizable difference to have that extra cash in hand .  you will pay a higher share of real estate taxes and hoa fees  istockphoto  mortgage interest is not the only closing cost that is dependent upon settlement date .  " real estate taxes and homeowners association or condominium association dues are prorated between buyer and seller at the and co-founder of express homebuyers usa in springfield , virginia . " if the amounts are prepaid by the seller , the buyer needs to reimburse the seller for the buyer 's portion of the payment from the settlement date through to the end of the period for which a payment was made . "  for example , if hoa fees are $600 per month , the buyer must reimburse the seller about $20 per day to cover the period from the date of settlement through the end of the month . if closing happens on the 29th , the buyer will pay just about $60 in prorated hoa fees . if closing is on the 7th , the buyer will pay substantially more -- about $500 .  if you are buying your first home , that cash cushion could be the difference between buying a dining room table and eating dinner on the floor in front of the television .  you might double up on rent and mortgage interest  istockphoto  closing costs are not the only payments to consider when selecting a settlement date . there is rarely a need to pay rent while simultaneously making a first mortgage payment .  " if the buyer is buying his or her first home , closing near the end of the month could mean less overlap with an existing rental lease , " said chandler . " by limiting overlap , the buyer can further reduce the amount of out-of-pocket expenses required at the time of closing . "  is the first of the month ever a good idea ?  istockphoto  the day of the month when settlement occurs can have an impact on the closing costs you will incur , but you get what you pay for . that first mortgage payment interest is due only for the days you actually own the home . if it is more convenient to move at the beginning of the month , the increased settlement costs are a reflection of the greater number of days during which you will occupy the home .  " while the day of the month does impact how much prepaid interest you will have to pay at closing , this daniel price , president , co-founder and ceo of onetitle national guaranty company in new york . " by the time you make your first mortgage payment at the beginning of the second full month , it will all equal out , regardless of when you closed . the day of the month you close does not affect the total amount that you will end up paying on your mortgage . "  still , the vast majority of settlement transactions occur at the end of the month . this is when title agents and mortgage brokers are their busiest and , consequently , when mistakes are made and service is rushed . if holding on to the upfront cash is not an issue for you , you could survive a much smoother transaction by coming to the closing table earlier in the month .  in short , a late-month settlement will have an effect on your mortgage loan closing costs , but not on your overall monthly mortgage payment . when it comes to daily mortgage interest , you get what you pay for , and not a day @ @