A Brief History Of America's Surprisingly Long Love Affair With Porn
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/museum-of-sex-hardcore-porn_564b3c09e4b06037734ab222

a brief history of america 's surprisingly long love affair with porn  this is n't your grandma 's porn . ( actually , it might be . )  warning : this post is filled with explicit imagery . very nsfw . proceed with caution .  artist unknown c. 1930s  " what would her parents think ? ! "  the paternalistic , pearl-clutching questions we ask about contemporary porn actors might seem a little more naive after visiting " hardcore , " an exhibit currently on display at the museum of sex in new york . though we like to imagine our forebears lived in more innocent times , the parents and grandparents and great-grandparents of today 's adult film stars might very well have been performing in -- or at least avidly consuming -- explicit erotica of their own .  " people tend to think that hardcore pornography is largely a modern invention , " director of exhibitions mark snyder told the huffington post in an email . " however , when looking at literary and visual representations of sex acts , there is very little territory that has not already been explored . "  old man of twenty-five , 1855 guide to the harem or directory to the ladies of fashion in new-york and various other cities for 1855 . ink on paper gillen and co . museum of sex collection .  early erotic materials include lithographs of sex acts and the above brothel guide , a sort of menu of sexual offerings at various establishments . early photographs depict uninhibited sexual encounters . " throughout history , " snyder said , " every time there is a new invention or advancement in technology , it is , very shortly after , utilized for sex . "  accordingly , by the turn of the 20th century , porn was beginning to look fairly modern . " early pornographic sex films , known in the united states as ' blue films , ' ' smokers , ' or ' stags , ' began appearing almost as soon as motion pictures were invented , " explained snyder . the oldest surviving american stag film , " a free ride , " it was made in 1915 .  " people have engaged in hardcore sex , and documented it , through all eras of history , " snyder pointed out . " they made sex toys ; they had threesomes . " and like modern pornographers , they did n't always restrict themselves to specialized sex toys -- the woman in the above photo is making a candle serve as a dildo .  items in the exhibit show same-sex encounters , blow jobs , and what we might consider bdsm today , as in this photo of a nude couple cavorting with a scary-looking whip :  while the advent of widespread adult video stories and , to an exponentially greater degree , free internet porn has led to an explosion in access to hardcore erotica , the materials themselves are n't quite as groundbreaking as we may assume . " many tropes that we associate with modern pornography were actually created much earlier , " explained snyder . " the ' money shot , ' for example , was actually established during the victorian era . "  mind  throughout the nation 's history , a tenuous divide between pornography and art has been enforced . even museums , snyder noted , often " sequestered sexually-related artifacts away from the rest of their collection . "  the distance of many years , however , allows us to look at these titillating images and videos with something other than arousal -- the sepia-washed tones and dated hairstyles clash with our modern ideas of pornography and obscenity . reframed by their antiquity , these vintage sexual poses take on an innocence , an artistic perspective on universal human needs .  " hardcore " is n't just a glimpse into our often forgotten history of graphic porn , but a reminder of how beautiful and powerful sex can be , in all its many forms .  see more images from the exhibit below , and check out the full show at the museum of sex . " hardcore " runs through 2016.