Plight of the Funny Female
http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/11/plight-of-the-funny-female/416559/

A few years ago , Laura Mickes was teaching her regular undergraduate class on childhood psychological disorders at the University of California , San Diego . It was a weighty subject , so occasionally she would inject a sarcastic comment about her own upbringing to lighten the mood . When she collected her professor evaluations at the end of the year , she was startled by one comment in particular :  " She 's not funny , " the student wrote .  Mickes realized that university students did n't seem to welcome , or even notice , the wit of many of her female colleagues . She 's not the only one . A recent graphic made by Ben Schmidt , an assistant professor of history at Northeastern University , analyzed the words used to describe male and female professors across 14 million reviews on RateMyProfessor.com . In every single discipline , male professors were far more likely than female ones to be described as funny .  " I thought , ' maybe I 'm not that funny , ' " Mickes said . a great time with my female friends . "  Mickes 's story triggered the familiar shot/chaser of recognition and unease in me . I come from the kind of family that deals with minor adversity by making relentless fun of the petty tyrants responsible . ( Major adversity , we smother in smoked meats . ) Given three adjectives to describe me , most of my female friends would list " funny " as one of them . But I maybe make a man laugh once every other month .  Men might say , " I would love to have a girlfriend who would make me laugh . " But for men , that 's a luxury , not a necessity .  On one hand , we live in the golden age of female comedy . Tina Fey , Lena Dunham , Mindy Kaling , Abbi Jacobson , Ilana Glazer , and their ilk certainly are n't the first women to have wildly popular TV shows based entirely around their own funniness . But they might be some of the first to do it with fearless jokes about the first female comedian to headline Madison Square Garden .  Women , suffice it to say , are funny . On the other hand , happy hours during which one man holds forth to a gaggle of raptly amused female onlookers exist . Mickes 's year-end review exists . My deftly hilarious female friends exist , and many are eternally single . If men and women are clearly capable of being equally funny , why does humor by non-famous women so often go unappreciated ?  * * *  In 2012 , Mickes decided to see whether her student had a point . ( Or rather , " I decided to redirect my anger into something productive , " as she described it . )  A common way scientists measure funniness is by making undergrads -- the typical guinea pigs for social-science research -- play a version of TheNew Yorker cartoon-caption contest . For her study , Mickes asked 32 students to write captions for 20 New Yorker cartoons . The men were " pretty excited about the task , " but the women were more reluctant . looked horrified and said , ' Uh , but I 'm not funny , ' " she recalled .  After the students finished writing their quips , a new set of participants rated the captions . They found the men 's punch-lines to be ever-so-slightly more clever -- about .11 points more on a five-point scale .  The difference was small , but still , Mickes was horrified by the results . " I thought ' Forget it , I 'm never going to do research again , ' " she said .  Past research on gender and New Yorker cartoons had been mixed . In a 2011 study in the journal Intelligence , male participants also penned more amusing captions than women did . But in a study the year before , the men 's and women 's one-liners were equally droll .  Mickes 's study revealed another interesting difference : Men wrote some of the best jokes , but they also used more profanity and sexual humor , and those jokes were n't rated very funny . If men were truly the funnier sex ,  In a later experiment , Mickes gave both male and female participants a list of random words , such as " beef jerky " and " water slide , " and asked them to write paragraphs using the words . Without prompting , the men wrote funny paragraphs . The women 's paragraphs were more creative and better-written , but they were n't funny . However , a surprising thing happened when Mickes explicitly told the participants to try to be funny in their paragraphs : Both genders used humor , and in equal measure .  As in hockey , it appears , so in lols : You miss 100 percent of the shots you do n't take . The 2011 Intelligence study similarly found that men wrote more captions overall , both funny and lame . In other words , men make more attempts at humor , so they are successful more of the time .  " Men are willing to take more risks in humor , and they also fail more miserably , " Gil Greengross , an evolutionary psychologist with Aberystwyth University in Wales and , " it 's worth it . If you fail and you 're not funny , you lost maybe a few minutes . But if the person laughs , the benefit can be huge . "  Men make so many joke-attempts , in fact , they are assumed to be funnier -- even when they 're not . After they had finished captioning , the students in Mickes 's study filled out a questionnaire about how funny they thought others would find their captions , and also whether they thought men or women were the funnier sex in general . Male participants said that , on a scale from one to five , their cartoons were an average of 2.3 in funniness . The women gave themselves a 1.5 . Even worse , 89 percent of the women and 94 percent of men responded that men , in general , are funnier .  In a follow-up experiment , Mickes asked a new set of participants to read the captions generated by the first group and guess the gender of the writer . Both men and women misattributed the funnier somehow try harder , " she mused . " And maybe over time they 're encouraged more to be funny . "  * * *  But why do men try so hard to make people laugh ?  To get some , mostly . Not everyone endorses evolutionary psychology , but those who do would say that women tend to be more selective in choosing their mates than men are because historically , motherhood has been a life-threatening , all-consuming endeavor . If a cavewoman picked the wrong caveman , she might risk a grueling childbirth only to end up raising an illness-addled child without the help of a skillful mate . Thus , choosiness becomes paramount . It behooves women to find a partner who will bestow sufficient time , resources , and good genes on their children -- in other words , a smart man .  Funny people are more likely to be smart . ( In one of the many New Yorker studies , the students who scored higher on intelligence tests also generated the funniest captions . ) Humor " signals a kind of understand what someone else will find funny , " David Buss , an evolutionary psychologist , explained . " It requires social intelligence , and it takes social verve or confidence . "  Since most people do n't go to bars with their completed Sudoku puzzles pinned to their chests , we rely on humor as a proxy for intelligence . On average , women tend to use their laughter to lure in potential mates , while men use their jokes to attract as many women as they can .  Related Stories  I know what you 're thinking . " But I , a man , desire women with a good sense of humor above all else ! " #Notallmen .  For decades , this response stumped psychologists . When they would ask men and women what they looked for in their long-term partners , both genders would say they wanted someone " with a good sense of humor . " It was only when researchers pressed their subjects on what they meant , specifically , by " sense of humor , " that the sex difference ; men want women who will laugh at theirs .  In 2006 , psychologists Eric Bressler and Sigal Balshine showed 210 college students images of two equally attractive members of the opposite sex . Underneath each photo , they pasted either funny or not-funny statements supposedly authored by the person . Female participants said they wanted the funny man , rather than the unfunny one , as a boyfriend , even when they thought the funnier man was less trustworthy . The men did not care about the women 's funniness either way .  In study later that year , Bressler and Balshine again found that , when considering imaginary interactions with people of the opposite sex , women said they wanted men who could make them laugh . Men said it was much more important that a woman enjoy his jokes .  Liana Hone , a psychology postdoc at the University of Missouri , came to a similar conclusion in a study earlier this year : " Men prefer women who are receptive to their humor , whereas women prefer men who produce humor . " Hone " spend " on a trait they 'd want in their sexual partners -- either a knack for telling jokes or an ability to appreciate them . The more they " spent " on each trait , the more their partner would embody that characteristic . Women , she found , would spend just $1.91 on a mate who laughs at their jokes , but men would spend $3.03 on one .  Many men might contend , " I would love to have a girlfriend or wife who would make me laugh , " said Greengross , who reviewed Hone 's study . " But for men , that 's more of a luxury , not a necessity . "  These preferences are n't exclusive to college students . Older studies of personal ads in magazines and newspapers found that women were far more likely than men to mention seeking someone funny . Later , when researchers looked at profiles on a Canadian dating website , they found men were more likely to tout how funny they were , while women were likelier to say they wanted a funny in multiple countries to rank their preferred qualities in a mate , women ranked " humor " first . Men ranked it third .  If men try harder to be funny , women do their best to show their appreciation , laughing more enthusiastically and frequently in male company . One study found that when men and women are talking , the amount that the woman , but not the man , laughs can predict whether the pair wants to date each other . The neuroscientist Robert Provine once listened in on dozens of spontaneous conversations in public spaces and identified 1,200 distinct " laugh episodes . " He found that women laughed significantly more than men did , especially when a man was nearby .  When I learned all of this , I immediately ran into the living room and asked my boyfriend if it 's important to him that his sexual partners are funny .  " Apparently not , " he said .  Ouch ! But also , that 's so funny ! Ugh .  * * *  Once , a guy and trying to decide if we liked each other . My issue with him was that he took me out for dinner at a fancy place and only ordered chocolate milk . I thought his issue was that there was another girl .  I was wrong :  " I just do n't get you ! " he exclaimed one day when we were on a walk . " You 're pretty , but you 're like ... goofy . It makes no sense . "  The way men and women laugh and joke has been so different for so long that it 's hardened into a stark , oppressive social norm . Norm violators get punished , and often , that means funny women are punished , too .  In another dating-style study in 1998 , about 100 college students were shown photos of people of the opposite sex along with transcripts of interviews supposedly conducted with those individuals . In the interviews , the photo subjects came off as either funny or bland . For the women , a man 's use of humor in the interview , meanwhile , did n't make the men want to date them more -- it actually made them slightly less alluring . That 's right : The men found the pretty , unfunny women more desirable than equally pretty ones who also happened to be funny .  Told that their humor is n't wanted , many women do n't bother .  It 's possible that men are indifferent to their partners ' funniness precisely because funny women are smarter . There 's some evidence that men are less attracted to women who are smarter than they are . In a study out this month in Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin , when men were introduced to women they were told had outperformed them on an intelligence test , they rated the woman as less attractive and were less likely to say they wanted to date her .  These biases have a chilling effect on women . The idea that women are n't supposed to make jokes can trigger stereotype threat , a phenomenon in which simply telling someone that their " group " tends to be bad at humor is n't wanted , many women do n't bother .  A 2001 study that analyzed casual conversations among young people found that while men told more jokes and more successful jokes in mixed company , women told many more jokes when they were in all-female groups . " Evidently , " the researchers concluded , " women only joke when men are not around . "  * * *  Sara Benincasa is certifiably funny . She ascended the Internet-comedy scene in 2008 , with a series of parody campaign-trail " vlogs " by Sarah Palin , whom Benincasa impersonated in a beehive hairdo , rectangular glasses , and " ooo-keeeys " straight out of Wasilla . More recently , she 's performed a one-woman show about agoraphobia and written several books , including a comedic novel , DC Trip , which came out this month .  She 's so talented , in fact , that I was a little nervous about emailing her to ask for an interview about her relationships . I said if she wanted she could use " pejorative pseudonyms " for her " This made me think that I , too , am funny . Which , given the scientific literature , made me worry that I will die alone .  Benincasa said that when she was younger , in her teens and early 20s , she would soften her personality in order to please the men she was chasing romantically . She 'd tell fewer jokes and laugh more heartily at theirs . Her friends would tell her that she acted differently around her boyfriends .  " I tried to play-act at being a woman , " she said . " This false me was always pretty and always ready for anything , and fun , and carefree . And the real me had a lot of things to say . The ' me ' I created was not bold and outspoken . She was not very funny . "  Benincasa 's dating strategy changed after she became a comedian . " I had to be myself or the audience would n't accept it , " she says . Her career now serves as a sort of man filter and they 'd better like it . Her current boyfriend , she notes , is also funny , and he loves her for her wisecracking .  Still , it 's depressing that for many women who are n't professional comedians , the most valuable social currency is beauty -- or worse , " being sweet . " In his infamous Vanity Fair piece about why women are n't funny , Christopher Hitchens presents humor as an essential tool men can deploy to break a woman 's defenses :  If you can stimulate her to laughter ... well , then , you have at least caused her to loosen up and to change her expression .  Women can also stimulate people to laughter -- not just for the purpose Hitchens had in mind , but to make a new friend , or to make an old one feel better . To impress a boss or a boyfriend 's parents . To lean in , for cryin ' out loud . If funniness is an implement of power , women deserve access to it , too .  If we is encouraged at the expense of women 's -- is there anything we can do about it ? Buss is skeptical that human desire can be molded ; that a stern PSA or even a shift in social mores could encourage men to seek out women who are witty rather than pretty . Entrenched beliefs that are ugly and pass ? -- like racism -- persist even when people disavow them . Men 's desire to be the Kings of Relationship Comedy , meanwhile , is n't even frowned upon .  Hone , from the University of Missouri , is more optimistic . If humankind decides that women 's natural zaniness should be set free , mankind should start to ask funnier women out for drinks . And women could stop dating men who do n't laugh at their jokes .  " Just because a trait has served an adaptive purpose does not mean we should accept it , " she said . " I like to think that there 's hope for all the funny , single ladies out there . "  Most Popular  More than at some point between this Christmas and New Year 's Day -- and each and every one of them will take roughly 100 trillion intestinal microbes along for the ride .  Among the various other things influenced by these gut bacteria -- like eating habits , for example -- they also help control how much , or how little , a person poops . For many travelers , " how little " is the operative phrase : By one estimate , as many as 40 percent of people experience constipation while they 're away from home , due partially to their gut bacteria 's reaction to the change of setting .  " Any time you leave your general habitat , it 's throwing your gut microflora off balance , " says Brooke Alpert , a New York-based registered dietician . Sometimes , that begins before you reach your new destination : In some people , the very act of traveling from point A to point B can cause constipation . Movement stimulates the gut , so sitting on a plane or in a car for long periods of time to go while in the air or on the road can also make it more difficult once you finally sit down on the toilet .  The GOP planned a dynastic restoration in 2016 . Instead , it triggered an internal class war . Can the party reconcile the demands of its donors with the interests of its rank and file ?  The angriest and most pessimistic people in America are n't the hipster protesters who flitted in and out of Occupy Wall Street . They are n't the hashtavists of #BlackLivesMatter . They are n't the remnants of the American labor movement or the savvy young dreamers who confront politicians with their American accents and un-American legal status .  The angriest and most pessimistic people in America are the people we used to call Middle Americans . Middle-class and middle-aged ; not rich and not poor ; people who are irked when asked to press 1 for English , and who wonder how white male became an accusation rather than a description .  You can measure their pessimism in polls that ask about their expectations for their both counts , whites without a college degree express the bleakest view . You can see the effects of their despair in the new statistics describing horrifying rates of suicide and substance-abuse fatality among this same group , in middle age .  Which is the largest nation in Europe to lack a state of its own ? The Catalans ? The Walloons ? Wrong and wrong . It is the English : population 50 million-plus , all of them under the government of a multinational entity , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland .  Until recently , nobody worried much about the statelessness of the English . After all , they dominated not only the U.K. , but also for much of the past 300 years a vast global empire . The empire is gone , but its legacy of language and law and political systems endures from California to Calcutta .  Suddenly , though , the future of England has become a very live question . Since the late 1990s , Scotland has obtained more autonomy for itself . Nearly 45 percent of Scots governing nationalists are weighing a second try if reelected in 2016 . Meanwhile , the U.K. as a whole faces a referendum on exiting the European Union that could trigger a different constitutional crisis if England votes narrowly in favor of leaving the EU , but is kept in Europe by Scottish , Irish , and Welsh votes . Such an outcome could prod the English to follow the Scots in rethinking the United Kingdom . It 's quite imaginable that sometime within the next U.S. presidential term , England could under one scenario or another part ways from Scotland and emerge as a self-governing entity ( albeit with Wales and a sliver of Ireland still attached ) for the first time since Shakespeare started his writing career .  Republicans may have a lock on Congress and the nation 's statehouses -- and could well win the presidency -- but the liberal era ushered in by Barack Obama is only just beginning .  Over roughly the past 18 months , the following events have transfixed the nation .  In July 2014 , Eric Garner , an African American death by a New York City policeman .  That August , a white police officer , Darren Wilson , shot and killed an African American teenager , Michael Brown , in Ferguson , Missouri . For close to two weeks , protesters battled police clad in military gear . Missouri 's governor said the city looked like a war zone .  In December , an African American man with a criminal record avenged Garner 's and Brown 's deaths by murdering two New York City police officers . At the officers ' funerals , hundreds of police turned their backs on New York 's liberal mayor , Bill de Blasio .  On the Internet , search queries are used to target vulnerable consumers .  Google knows the questions that people would n't dare ask aloud , and it silently offers reams of answers . But it is a mistake to think of a search engine as an oracle for anonymous queries . It is n't . Not even close .  In some cases , the most intimate questions a person is asking -- about health worries that set off a chain reaction that can have troubling consequences both online and offline .  All this is because being online increasingly means being put into categories based on a socioeconomic portrait of you that 's built over time by advertisers and search engines collecting your data -- a portrait that data brokers buy and sell , but that you can not control or even see . ( Not if you 're in the United States , anyway . )  If a Pulitzer-finalist 34-part series of investigative journalism can vanish from the web , anything can .  The web , as it appears at any one moment , is a phantasmagoria . It 's not a place in any reliable sense of the word . It is not a repository . It is not a library . It is a constantly changing patchwork of perpetual nowness .  Digital information itself has all kinds of advantages . It can be read by machines , sorted and analyzed in massive quantities , and disseminated instantaneously . " Except when it goes , it really goes , " said Archive . " It 's gone gone . A piece of paper can burn and you can still kind of get something from it . With a hard drive or a URL , when it 's gone , there is just zero recourse . "  The Islamic State is no mere collection of psychopaths . It is a religious group with carefully considered beliefs , among them that it is a key agent of the coming apocalypse . Here 's what that means for its strategy -- and for how to stop it .  What is the Islamic State ?  Where did it come from , and what are its intentions ? The simplicity of these questions can be deceiving , and few Western leaders seem to know the answers . In December , The New York Times published confidential comments by Major General Michael K. Nagata , the Special Operations commander for the United States in the Middle East , admitting that he had hardly begun figuring out the Islamic State 's appeal . " We have not defeated the idea , " he said . " the past year , President Obama has referred to the Islamic State , variously , as " not Islamic " and as al-Qaeda 's " jayvee team , " statements that reflected confusion about the group , and may have contributed to significant strategic errors .  In his new book , a Nobel laureate outlines how the huge disparity arose and the huge course correction needed to address it .  If there 's one thing Joseph Stiglitz wants to say about inequality , it 's that it has been a choice , not an unexpected , unfortunate economic outcome . That 's unnerving , but it also means that citizens and politicians have the opportunity to fix the problem before it gets worse .  A guide to the returning hits and new shows on network , cable , and streaming services  2015 may have spawned the phrase " Peak TV " thanks to an onslaught of shows in every format imaginable , but 2016 is n't going to offer much respite . In the coming months , terrestrial networks , premium cable , and streaming services will favorites , no matter how niche their audience . Here 's a look at a fraction of what 's in store for the early months of 2016 .  Sherlock : The Abominable BrideFriday on PBSPremieres January 1  As Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman have turned into major film stars , new episodes of Steven Moffat 's 21st-century Sherlock have been harder and harder to come by . But two years after the show 's third-season finale , viewers will get a one-off special that will de-modernize the show , taking it back to Victorian times with a ghost story -- something Moffat says would n't work as well in the present day . The 90-minute episode will premiere on PBS on New Year 's Day . Season four ? You 'll have to wait until 2017 .  With the arrival of cooler weather comes the resurgence , in catalogs and department stores , of that most dubious of offerings : the two-piece set of pajamas .  Granted , not all pajamas are as hilariously improbable as the collared , button-down shirt , which makes the person wearing in dreamland . But even the more casual PJs , the kind that look like something you 'd wear to yoga or third-grade gym class , seem way too hot and constricting for sleep .  I have a theory that pajamas were invented for the scenes in TV shows where couples are sitting up in bed talking , but are actually worn by very few real people . To lay around and watch Netflix ? Sure . But personally , I 've never seen a man fall asleep while wearing pajamas . ( That is , of course , based on my own small sample. )