Foreign Ministers Discuss Fate of Cubans at Nicaragua Border
http://www.nbcmiami.com/news/local/Foreign-Ministers-Discuss-Fate-of-Cubans-at-Nicaragua-Border-353276411.html

" our governments do not have the resources to deal with this new threat to our national security , ' ' the nicaraguan government said in a statement , suggesting that the wave could facilitate terrorism or migrants from other countries .  the statement also criticized the cold-war era u.s. policies that allow the cubans special status as migrants . nicaragua 's leftist government has warm ties with cuba .  costa rica , meanwhile , accused nicaragua of scuttling a chance for a " regional and humanitarian solution ' ' to the problem . it has proposed creating a humanitarian corridor through the region for the migrants .  " nicaragua repeatedly blocked any proposal to solve the problem , without presenting any solution other than blockade and intransigence , ' ' costa rica 's foreign ministry said in a statement .  costa rican foreign minister manuel gonzalez said " i regret the lack of results from this long day of work , ' ' adding that it was " a little discourahing for the thousands of people who have been waiting for an ten days ago when the nicaraguan government prohibited the entry of cubans into their country , leaving thousands in limbo .  more than 3,000 cubans involved in the crisis see the united states as their final destination . foreign ministers from cuba , ecuador , colombia and central american countries gathered to come up with a plan .  costa rican officials proposed a humanitarian corridor that would protect their rights as they travel north .  " if one of the solutions is to shut down the entrance through ecuador , the cubans will not say , ' okay , i 'm not going to be afraid of raul castro , i 'm going to remain here . ' they will take out to the ocean , " said sanchez , a human rights advocate .  sanchez also said latin american officials should not only focus on a short term solution . he believes the long term problem is not the cuban adjustment act , rather the castro regime .  " you can have a million cuban adjustment acts . if they have freedom in cuba , .  meanwhile , the u.s. state department has said it currently has no plans to change its immigration policies with regard to cuba .  the associated press contributed to this report .  published at 6:25 pm est on nov 24 , 2015  news breaks at inconvenient times . download the nbc6 mobile app and have the news come to you . watch live streaming newscasts , receive critical push notifications on the go and stay in touch with your city around the clock .