Family Of Man Who Died In Arlington Jail Reacts To Video
http://dfw.cbslocal.com/2015/11/24/family-of-man-who-died-in-arlington-jail-reacts-to-video/

Family Of Man Who Died In Arlington Jail Reacts To Video  ARLINGTON ( CBS11 ) -- The family of a man who died while in custody at the Arlington jail says video taken as jailers struggled to restrain him shows a murder . Jonathan Paul died as jailers restrained him . Paul 's family says they 're disappointed the guards indicted in Paul 's case were n't charged with murder . And they say they 're baffled by the way Paul was behaving when he was arrested .  Paul 's family says they 've never seen him in a disturbed state of mind like he was when police arrested him .  " No ! " said Paul 's uncle Marvin Phillips . " He never had an episode . Never . This is the first time of anything that we 're aware of . It was labeled psychosis from the medical examiner . That 's only a hypothetical . "  Video in the jail shows Paul roaring and yelling " I am the lion king " before stripping out of his clothes and Guards forcibly removed Paul from his cell , held him down and pepper sprayed him . Paul was left unattended and he stopped breathing .  Two guards , Pedro Medina and Steve Schmidt were indicted for negligent homicide . Paul 's family had hoped for a murder indictment .  " I was glad that indictments were returned , " said Paul 's uncle Benjamin Paul . " But it was n't enough indictment . Especially for the people involved my nephew 's death . "  The attorney for the two guards , Robert Rogers released a statement stating in part :  " These two dedicated public servants with impeccable records had the misfortune of being on duty when a criminal in the midst of a drug-induced psychotic episode flooded his own cell with toilet water and fiercely resisted multiple officers as they tried to move him to a safe , dry cell . "  An autopsy showed marijuana but no other drug or alcohol in Paul 's system .  " Our administrative investigation will look at all involved employees , " said Lt. Chris Cook saw multiple employees on the videos . We 'll look at the procedures and protocols for that each and every employee had with mister Paul , we 'll look at all those employees . "  Cook says even officers who were present in the jail are under scrutiny as the department analyses its policies and procedures . The administrative investigation is expected to wrap up in two weeks .  Joel is an Emmy Award winning journalist with more than 15 years of television experience . He earned his bachelor 's degree in broadcast journalism with a minor in political science . He enjoyed writing at an early age , and by junior high sc ...