Christmas Lights Guide: Some of the Best Displays in Town
http://magicvalley.com/news/local/christmas-lights-guide-some-of-the-best-displays-in-town/article_511552be-7b13-5928-83ea-440390899b4a.html

His house , 585 Parkwood Drive , beams every night , powered by 6,000 lights . The glowing pine tree in his front yard has 2,000 on it alone . Then , there are the 80 illuminated candy canes on his lawn along with a herd of radiant reindeer .  " Since I was in second or third grade I 've always been infatuated with lights , " Nielsen said . " I love it . It 's something I do . "  Nielsen 's display and a sampling of others are listed in this Christmas lights guide that includes homes , trailers and entire yards likes LaMar Orton 's 4-acre Plantasia Cactus Gardens at 867 Filer Ave . W. in Twin Falls . Orton 's display is open nightly from 6 to 10 p.m . Visitors can enter through the gate and wander through until Jan. 3 when he plans to take them down .  Then there are displays -- like Max Casperson 's -- that are so grand they have incorporated entire neighborhoods .  Casperson 's display , 2507 Twin View it all started with a few strands on his house .  But after Sept. 11 , 2001 , Casperson added a " God Bless America " sign on his barn . Each year he added a few more strands .  When his decorations started to outgrow his property , Casperson approached his neighbors with an idea to create a neighborhood display .  " I visited with each of them , and as it grew a little more each time , I 'd go get their permission and they have encouraged it , " he said .  Some neighbors furnish power , lights and property , but he makes sure they are put up every year . One of Casperson 's neighbors is a big Broncos fan , so Casperson made him a Broncos sign to go in his pasture . Many of the displays are handmade by Casperson .  " So I do things like that , " Casperson said . " They are all wonderful . "  For the past 10 years , spectators have driven up and down Twin View Lane looking at , nativity scenes and Santa and his reindeer on rooftops . There are signs everywhere declaring , " Let it Snow , " " Peace on Earth " and " Merry Christmas . "  A traffic counter records 20,000 visitors each year . The neighborhood Christmas lights display is on from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. every night until New Year 's Day .  This year , Casperson started decorating Oct. 10 . Some years he hires help or gets family to assist in putting up lights . When it 's time to take it all down he employs a local Boy Scout troop . In turn , he contributes to their projects or trips .  Casperson prefers not to share how high his power bill runs during the holiday season .  " I just say this , ' LED lights make it 10 percent of what the bill used to be , ' " Casperson said . " It makes it very do-able . "  A new element to this year 's display is old-time Christmas music . Drivers can tune to 97.7 FM to the Red Nose Reindeer . "  " It 's very satisfying to us to have people go through , " Casperson said . " I like to encourage the celebration and the meaning of Christmas . "  Copyright 2015 Twin Falls Times-News . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed.