How President Obama Helped A VC Land The First-Ever Investment ...
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/how-lightspeeds-jeremy-liew-invests-in-startups-like-snapchat-2013-12

how president obama helped a vc land the first-ever investment in snapchat  lightspeedjeremy liew is a partner at lightspeed venture partners who found hot startups like snapchat and whisper before everyone else .  it 's a good thing jeremy liew met barack obama .  in march 2012 , liew 's facebook profile picture was of himself and the president . he did n't know it at the time , but that picture would help him land a crucial early stage investment .  liew is a partner at lightspeed venture partners , a firm with $us2 billion under management . there are nine partners who lead startup deals in the united states . only liew and one other partner , justin caldbeck , hunt for startups in the crowded consumer technology space . and in march 2012 , liew had his eye on an app called snapchat .  when liew first found snapchat , the disappearing photo app had fewer than 100,000 installs . liew 's partner had seen it on his teenage daughter 's phone . she told her father there were birds , instagram , and snapchat . liew was familiar with the first two . but he had never heard of snapchat .  the comment was enough to pique liew 's curiosity . he made it his mission to find out who was behind the mysterious app .  liew did a google search and came up dry . no articles had been written about snapchat . there was no contact information on the startup 's website except for a generic email address . liew messaged it and heard nothing back . liew looked up the company on linkedin and sent a message . again , there was no response .  determined , liew did a whois lookup on the domain name , snapchat.com . it had been registered by toyopa group , the former parent company of snapchat . spiegel had named it after the street his father lived on , toyopa drive .  liew did a google search for toyopa group and found evan spiegel 's name . he was a student at stanford , where liew had also gone to school . liew was able .  when liew sent the facebook message , spiegel finally replied . he was n't looking to raise a round of financing ; liew was fine with that . liew invited spiegel to meet him at his office on the most famous street in the entrepreneurial world , sand hill road in menlo park . a few feet to the left sits greylock partners , sequoia capital and institutional venture partners . to the right sits khosla ventures .  during the meeting , spiegel shared his vision for snapchat . facebook is a place where you can share superficial feelings with the world . it 's for sharing times when you 're happy , confident , and enjoying life . but what about all the other times when you 're sad , feeling crazy or even depressed ?  spiegel felt there should be a place where intimate feelings could be expressed privately via fleeting messages . after all , true friendships are formed when people share both positive and negative experiences . and negative experiences ca n't be housed on a public , identifying platform like facebook . , but engagement metrics were strong . " people were using it like crazy and staying for a really long time , " liew recalls .  eventually , spiegel let lightspeed invest in his company . it was the only investor in a $us485,000 seed round , which spiegel raised in may 2012 . he was still three classes shy of graduating . snapchat has since raised more than $us120 million and it turned down a multi-billion-dollar acquisition offer from facebook .  liew later asked spiegel why he returned the facebook request and none of his other messages .  " it was because you had president obama in your profile picture , " spiegel said .  " there 's serendipity involved in all this stuff , " liew said , recalling that conversation .  but liew 's investments are based on much more skill than luck . his name is frequently mentioned in the los angeles startup scene , where a number of his early investments are panning out .  whisper is another social app liew found before other investors . based in santa monica , supportive environment , like an open-source diary . liew saw whisper trending in the app store and it fit his firm 's investment thesis .  liew emailed its founder , 26-year-old michael heyward , on a monday . he said he 'd be in town for a board meeting that tuesday . by wednesday , liew convinced heyward to meet with his partner . on friday , liew sent heyward -- who had n't been interested in raising a round of financing -- a term sheet . on saturday , liew flew back to santa monica and finalise the investment in whisper . lightspeed led its $us3 million series a round of financing .  whisper now has millions of registered users . it has 80-times more content than there are wikipedia pages . it has raised $us25 million .  liew also found shoedazzle , a once-buzzy startup run by kim kardashian and brian lee , early . like spiegel , lee was n't interested in meeting him . lee told liew that shoedazzle was profitable , so it did n't need venture capital .  liew 's recently invested in a consumer startup that ignored his initial emails . instead of taking " no " for an answer , caldbeck showed up on the startup 's doorstep with a plate full of cupcakes .  in addition to being persistent , caldbeck and liew are observant . if his partner had n't been an engaged father , liew might have missed snapchat . with shoedazzle , liew noticed a friend collecting pink boxes of shoes . he asked her what all the boxes were about ; she told him they were kim kardashian 's shoe-of-the-month club .  liew and caldbeck try to think differently about their investments . so while other vcs are looking right , they turn their heads a little to the left .  " when everyone is saying , ' we do n't invest in this , ' that 's sometimes a good time to invest , " says liew . " you have to find a reason the conventional wisdom no longer applies . "  liew used the recent craze around e-commerce startups and the rise of facebook 's platform as , " liew says . " they do n't have brand-names and they do n't have scale , so their cost to acquire customers should be much higher and their lifetime value much lower than incumbents . the only time it makes sense to invest in e-commerce startups is when there 's a new customer acquisition channel that 's scalable . startups are nimble enough to take advantage of the opportunity and grow to scale before the incumbents even notice . the first time that happened since google paid search was when facebook opened up its right rail to e-commerce companies and advertisers . "  startups like gilt groupe , livingsocial , shoedazzle , groupon , and ruelala were able to scale their customer bases quickly and cheaply on the coattails of facebook before larger brands caught on . now that the facebook channel is saturated with brands like nordstrom and jc penney , e-commerce startups ca n't rely on it for growth .  snapchat and whisper seem like obvious investments now . but when lightspeed invested , most people assumed social startups had peaked . facebook won the writing off social startups altogether , liew 's team tried to find entrepreneurs who were innovating in places where facebook could n't follow .  facebook , liew determined , is the journal of record for our real lives . by its nature , it needs to tie users to their real identities . it also aspires to host everything its users publish forever . that creates an opportunity for startups to host temporary content or to thrive on anonymity .  " if you flip facebook 's need for real ids to anonymous accounts , then you get an app like whisper , " liew says . " if you flip facebook 's need for permanence to impermanence , you get snapchat . "  if you flip facebook 's need for real ids to anonymous accounts , then you get an app like whisper . if you flip facebook 's need for permanence to impermanence , you get snapchat .  liew is constantly on the hunt for under-the-radar trends like that . one of his favourite resources is pagedata . pagedata shows which pages are trending on facebook paul walker 's page following his sudden death ) , others hint at investment opportunities .  last year , liew noticed pages with memes , or text-and-picture content , were trending . when he saw whisper and snapchat , he realised those housed the same type of content . sites like lolcats and perezhilton had been creating that type of content for years ; snapchat and whisper were bringing the experience to mobile devices .  now liew is noticing publications like viral nova and upworthy , which are driving rapid growth through social sharing . policymic , a media startup that has quickly grown to 8 million monthly readers , is one of liew 's investments .  liew is also interested in bitcoin startups , as well as startups that are applying big data to financial services .  while liew has invested in all kinds of consumer startups and entrepreneurs , there 's something they have in common .  " we believed in the vision of each team , as well as the teams themselves , " liew says of his investments . " we were and get to them quickly . also , they were outside of the typical investment cycle . "