New forest management plan for WA timber industry
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-12-09/new-forest-management-plan-released/5145048

western australia 's timber industry is preparing to tighten its belt after the release of a new framework to manage the state 's south-west forests .  forest resource is allocated on a ten-year plan which comes to the end of its cycle at the end of this month .  timber sourced from 2.5 million hectares of forests from lancelin to denmark is supplied under contract by the state government through the forest products commission .  the forest industry says the latest ten year plan is the most cautious plan it has seen .  executive director of forest industries federation wa , melissa haslan , says the added environmental parameters in the new plan will put pressure on industry by increasing the cost of harvest .  " the problem is it has swung to far one way which puts enormous pressure on industry , " she said ..  " we have no problem on environmental assessment , but where it is in excess and to the death of the industry we say ' hold on guys maybe that 's gone a big of the conservation council of wa , piers verstegen , says forestry areas have been managed in an unsustainable way .  " they have been overcut , for many , many years , and now the industry has been forced into less and less viable areas , " he said .  " because of their previous over-cutting they do n't have the same resource to access . "  the forest industry says the claims made by conservationists that forestry is running at a loss is ludicrous .  " industry generates $1.6 billion annually for our economy and it employs thousands of people directly and indirectly , particularly in the southwest . " melissa haslam said .  " it is an important sector that is not subsidised by the government in anyway . "  key features of the forest management plan 2014-23 include : - continued protection of all old-growth forest , totalling more than 334,000ha- enhanced protection for large marri trees , which provide nesting and food for black cockatoos- an increase in protected areas by adding 4,000ha to whicher national park near busselton- increased reporting on the health and diversity of the forest- a new objective to protect and conserve the value of the land to noongar culture and heritage .