Flight Centre loses ACCC case with CEOs emails scrutinised
http://www.smartcompany.com.au/legal/34858-flight-centre-loses-accc-case-with-ceos-emails-scrutinised.html

flight centre loses accc case with ceos emails scrutinised  flight centre chief graham turner remains defiant after his company lost a case brought against it by the accc on friday .  the brisbane federal court found flight centre guilty of six counts of attempting to induce competitors to enter into price-fixing arrangements with it .  the competition regulator argued that on six occasions between 2005 and 2009 , flight centre attempted to induce singapore airlines , malaysian airlines and emirates to agree to stop offering prices cheaper than those offered by flight centre ( all three airlines rejected the advances ) .  as part of its case , the accc argued that as flight centre 's prices include both its commission and the cost of the flight , discouraging airlines from selling below this price has the effect of preventing competition between flight centre and the airline 's internal sales divisions .  speaking to smartcompany when the case was first brought against the travel company last year , turner was adamant he would n't seek a settlement .  " we 'll we 'd contemplate a settlement . we need to look after our customers and ensure they have the best fares . we make no apology for that , " he said .  turner was overseas when the judgement was delivered and so unable to speak to smartcompany this time around . but in a written statement , turner again signalled his intention to continue fighting the case .  " having access to all offers is a logical and natural business request for an agent to make to ensure the customers it serves are not disadvantaged , " he said .  " the ruling is likely to have implications for the travel industry and for many retailers and agents in other sectors . "  in a statement to the australian securities exchange , flight centre indicated it would appeal the federal court ruling .  " based on a preliminary analysis of the judge 's findings , the company believes there are errors of law that will form the basis of its appeal .  " the company does not expect the test case ruling to affect its on a narrow area of activity between 2005 and 2009 . "  the case was largely decided on internal and external flight centre emails , many of them written by turner , which justice logan said showed flight centre and the airlines were in clear competition with each other , and thus an attempt to reach an agreement on pricing was price-fixing .  one email , sent to singapore airlines , made reference to instances where the airline had " undercut " flight centre 's prices .  " these reduced margins this year have made it difficult at times for us ... and recognition of this issue will help us to achieve our collective goals , " it said .  flight centre 's lawyers argued it was not in direct competition with the airlines . but based on the emails , justice logan disagreed .  michael terceiro , a legal consultant and former accc lawyer who worked on the accc 's case against flight centre , says turner appears to have " shot himself in the foot " with the emails .  " justice logan , which he said showed a competitive mindset . "  by basing his judgement on such documents , justice logan has made it difficult for flight centre to appeal , terceiro added .  in an appeal , flight centre would n't be able to have the evidence re-evaluated , but would instead have to base its argument on a point of law . if the ruling , however , was largely based on witness evidence , it narrows the scope of an appeal .  penalties for price-fixing behaviour can be hefty . at a penalty hearing , justice logan will decide between a penalty of $10 million , 10% of flight centre 's yearly revenue , or three times the financial gain from the price-fixing .  flight centre was not successful in its price-fixing attempts , which leaves the first two potential penalties . it is quite likely the accc will push for flight centre to be fined 10% of its revenue , terceiro says .  " flight centre did n't succeed , so that suggests a low penalty . but a couple of factors hurt himself was involved in the conduct , and there 'll be no discounts for cooperation or contrition .  " once the penalty is decided on , flight centre can appeal . but they might decide not to . "  the case bears remarkable similarities to one recently brought by the accc against anz , which it lost last november , terceiro adds .  in that case , the accc alleged that anz had engaged in price-fixing behaviour when threatened to remove mortgage refunds ' accreditation to sell its mortgages unless the broker capped its refunds at $600 , allowing anz to match the price .  myriam robin  myriam robin is a reporter for smartcompany and its sister site leadingcompany . she has degrees in economics , international studies and journalism . she likes writing about businesses taking risks and doing new things .  javascript is currently disabled.please enable it for a better experience of jumi .  free daily newsletter  invalid input  receive special offers from related companies  javascript is currently disabled.please enable it for a better experience of jumi .  of jumi.  inside innovation : how 6 smes shook up business  brought to you by  direct links  topics  our partners  smartcompany.com.au is australia 's leading website for smes featuring business news , business information and business blogs . smartcompany 's archive of news , feature articles , entrepreneur interviews and business webinars cover topics such as advertising and marketing , buying or selling a business , starting a business , growing a business , franchising , seo , superannuation and tax .