Break the carbon curse to curb global emissions
http://theconversation.com/break-the-carbon-curse-to-curb-global-emissions-17338

regardless of economic strength or level of development , countries with substantial fossil fuel resources are almost certain to be heavy carbon polluters -- a phenomenon dubbed the " carbon curse " .  a study by oxford university academics joerg friedrichs and oliver inderwildi published today in the journal energy policy suggests policy makers should turn to the fuel-rich nations first to start reducing carbon emissions . with more resources such as coal , oil , or gas to waste , invariably such countries are the worst polluters .  while this may seem obvious on the surface , the authors identify four mechanisms at work . extracting the resource is energy intensive ( oil drilling , coal mining ) and often wasteful ( eg , gas flaring ) . cheap , plentiful fuel means a low incentive to invest in energy efficiency . governments are under pressure to offer uneconomic subsidies to citizens who expect to benefit from their nation 's natural resource , and cheap fuel crowds out demand for other forms of energy production such as renewables . each of these pushes the unit of gdp ) far higher than comparable countries that lack natural resources .  these perverse incentives almost guarantee that fuel-rich countries will struggle to reduce carbon emissions , whether they are developed or developing nations . the 41 countries studied included opec petro-states like saudi arabia , venezuela , iraq , and nigeria , developed economies including european nations , the us , south korea , south africa and australia , and developing economic powerhouses like china , india and brazil . in almost every case , the fuel rich nations suffered the carbon curse , with high emissions and high inefficiencies . the only countries to buck the trend were norway and the uk -- both fuel producing states that nevertheless achieved lower carbon emissions and energy efficiency .  dr friedrichs said the analysis offered an alternative way of approaching climate change discussions that moved away from the " blame game " played out between established and developing economies , where each demands the other make emissions reductions .  " policy makers should be aware that the main division is not between advanced and emerging economies . " if you want to understand why a country has a high carbon intensity , it will tell you more to look at resources than other economic indicators . put simply , scarcity leads to responsible use of a resource ; abundance the opposite . "  even countries such as germany -- among europe 's strongest advocate for renewables and emissions reduction -- faired poorly because it produces and uses large amounts of lignite , a highly polluting brown coal . likewise australia and canada were brought down by their coal and tar sands industries .  dr dabo guan , senior lecturer in environmental economics and governance at leeds university , said that climate change discussions hinged on whether governments sought " low carbon " or merely " lower carbon " solutions . for example , as carbon intensity is expressed in relation to gdp , it can be driven down by substantially increasing gdp , rather than lowering overall emissions . of course in the course of manufacturing , processing , and selling more things to increase gdp , carbon emissions would inevitably also rise substantially -- : " in climate negotiations india and china talk about relative , ' lower carbon ' targets and relative indicators , not absolute targets for low emissions . china says by 2020 it will reduce carbon intensity by 45% , but if the economy continues to grow and gdp increases more than emissions , doing so is no problem . " producing 40% of the world 's steel , 60% of concrete and around half of the world 's metal processing , china 's unencumbered economy can produce considerable income , and emissions .  the product of a huge amount of these emissions are in any case destined for the less-polluting west . " norway , the uk , the west -- we rely heavily on imported oil and gas from africa , asia and the middle east . we have essentially outsourced our emissions to these countries , " dr guan said .  a further problem is that countries that have lowered carbon emissions to a certain level experience diminishing returns on the huge amount of money spent to lower them further . better instead , globally speaking easier to implement measures have not yet been taken . unfortunately these are the states whose often corrupt or powerful controlling elites have the least incentive to do so , or where wasteful practices such as gas flaring from oil wells are commonplace despite electricity black outs and fuel poverty among the people .  dr friedrichs suggests the answer is for petro-states to fund r&amp;d in high-tech nations so that the fruits of their combined cash and labour -- technologies like carbon capture and storage or supercritical steam generators for efficient power plants - can be offered back to the developing world , for everyone 's benefit .  one of numerous thorny political questions in climate negotiations . but while it is easier said than achieved , the achievements of norway and the uk show that it is possible , with the right policies and determination to act , for states to break the spell of fossil fuels and lift the carbon curse .