MPAA Lobbies For Army Of Hollywood Drones
http://www.gizmodo.com.au/2013/01/mpaa-lobbies-for-army-of-hollywood-drones/

MPAA Lobbies For Army Of Hollywood Drones  You might not imagine the Motion Picture Association of America ( MPAA ) as a particularly drone-happy group , but new documents reveal that the actively lobbying the US government for UAV drone use in domestic space . No , they are n't building an army to track down pirates ; they just want filmmakers to be able to shoot with them .  Howard Gantman , a spokesman for the MPAA , argues that drones are safer , cheaper and easier to use for aerial shots than helicopters or cranes , and can be super useful for particularly crazy shots . Sure , some filmmakers are already using unmanned aerial vehicles for filming , but the legality of the issue is something of a grey area . The MPAA is pushing the FAA for full-on allowance of the practice so it can really " take-off " so to speak .  The main argument against this is that widespread commercial drone use could lead to all kinds of domestic spying , a privilege the government might like to , are already working on laws to prevent exactly the sort of drone use the MPAA is lobbying for .  Commercial drone use is a big can of worms , inside and outside of the movie industry . Currently , the FAA plans on starting to issue private drone licences by 2015 , but it still has to work out the details of who should be allowed to get them . If the MPAA has anything to say about it , filmmakers will definitely be on that list . While they 're at it , maybe they could put in a good word for fast-food delivery drones too . The Hill via Fast Company  Just because there is a picture of a Predator ( or similar ) in the story does n't mean that the studios want military drones .. These beasts are not necessarily cheap nor efficient for what they want ... ( Though they Do have a lower hourly rate than a Cessna or Jetranger , but their purchase cost is higher ( Typically POA ) than a small GA fixed wing . ( More in the Just an RC plane used for commercial purposes ....  The name drone actually means a dumb worker ( as in drone bee ... )  People somehow have only associated the word with semi-autonomous killer drones ( which are actually usually manually piloted , which is why they tend to crash all the time ... ( let the computer do the flying and all will be fine .. )  The USA has pretty restrictive laws on flying uninhabited aircraft .. ( as did most of the rest of the world ) generally it is only legal to fly these beauties ( big or small ) for hobby purposes ...  In Australia , if the aircraft is : Away from residential areas , Below 400 feet above the ground ( yep I know that is fairly low ) Within eyesight of the operator Under 150 kg weight ( but getting clearance from the MAAA for over 50kg is a bit hard )  There are NO rules ... BUT ..  Your Insurance company is unlikely to offer cover , therefore actually having a viable business using such craft )  Also , putting professional cameras on a Quad , it will need to be a fairly large quad , and the batteries will sort of run out pretty quick . Better using a 4m fixed wing or 3 metre heli ...  ( If the above rules are met , there is no regulation in Australia ( Check out the CASA website , they say it in as few words ...  But if you want to operate outside these regulations , you need to jump through lots of hoops ...  Trending Stories Right Now  My initial reaction to Apple 's expensive new iPhone battery case was in step with the everyone else 's . It looks like it has a tumour . But what I discovered after using it for a full day is it 's actually surprisingly great .  You might 've seen Zaha Hadid 's name in the news after Japan 's Sports Council announced a design to her replace her widely loathed and alien-like Olympic stadium in Tokyo . But the real update comes in the form of a new skyscraper in earplug ?  The droids in the Star Wars universe often play a key role in the movies . But how close are they to some of the real robots in our own universe ? Professor Jonathan Roberts from the Queensland University of Technology drops his science on those assembled ...