CipherCloud adds more randomness
http://www.techworld.com.au/article/528997/ciphercloud_adds_more_randomness/

" We are solving a very big problem , " the CEO said . " Customers always want to have the strongest possible encryption , so we came up with AES-256 encryption with full randomness ... So if you have the name ' John ' a million times , you will get a million different cipher texts . "  FIPS 140-2 certification -- a US government cryptography standard -- for CipherCloud is pending , Kothari said . " The government shutdown has caused some delay , but by the end of this year we should be able to get our FIPS 140-2 certification , " he said .  CipherCloud CMO Paige Leidig said the company has continued to experience dramatic growth . " We 're coming to the end of our Q3 and we 're continuing to see record numbers and demand for our technology , " Leidig said .  " We anticipate that this quarter will again be a record quarter again for CipherCloud . "  The finance sector makes up at least 50 per cent of the company 's customer base control of its encryption keys , and data is encrypted before it 's sent to a cloud service provider . The subscription-based service , which can be installed as a virtual appliance or on hardware , includes plug-ins for a number of major SaaS offerings , including Salesforce , Gmail and Office 365 , as well as support for private- and public-cloud-based databases and a framework , Connect AnyApp , that can be used with other third-party or custom applications .  Top Whitepapers  Internal and external disruptions can impede business continuity and result in negative repercussions for enterprise productivity and data resources . This whitepaper looks at how improved mobility access can shield companies from unprecedented risks , resulting in greater cost savings and enhanced workforce continuity . It also highlights the benefits of having a mobile workspace technology which enables the workforce to have access to apps , desktops and files in difficult situations . Included are four case studies where organisations are able to demonstrate a high level of business continuity with sound disaster recovery strategies in place .  Zones  Featured Whitepapers  With BYOD data and mitigate new risks associated with mobility . This whitepaper offers insights on how companies can dramatically simplify their access infrastructure while improving security and lowering the provisioning burden on IT .  Copyright 2015 IDG Communications . ABN 14 001 592 650 . All rights reserved . Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited .