Steven Wilson Puts Projects Aside To Work On Yes, XTC Remasters
http://www.noise11.com/news/steven-wilson-puts-projects-aside-to-work-on-classic-albums-20131015

steven wilson puts projects aside to work on yes , xtc remasters  producer , performer , songwriter steven wilson has put many of his major and side-projects on hold while he concentrates on his own solo shows as well as remixing classic albums for yes , xtc and king crimson .  wilson recently completed a 5:1 surround sound remix of the classic yes album ' close to the edge ' , to be released shortly on blu-ray . he has also remixed xtc 's ' nonesuch ' and king crimson 's ' the road to red ' , which means his own porcupine tree and no-man products are on hiatus .  " historically porcupine tree was one of several things i started to do at the beginning of my career , " steven tells noise11.com . " it was the one that just happened to take off . porcupine tree i did for 15 years and i want to work with different people but that does n't mean porcupine tree wo n't still do something else together again . my answer is there is right now . we 'll see " .  no-man with tim bowness is also on hold . " no-man has also been on hiatus as well , " he said . " i can imagine another time when i might do another record with tim as no-man but right now i 've said all the other things i 've done i am not going to do for awhile " .  wilson has been performing solo shows recently in australia and will continuing his work remixing the classic works of yes , xtc and king crimson . " the solo thing is a new thing and i 'm doing a lot of work remixing classic albums which i love doing and is new to me , " he said .  the new yes ' close to the edge ' release will feature :  * the original album in a new stereo mix on cd , appended by two bonus tracks : a new mix of the band 's non-lp cover of simon &amp; garfunkel 's " america " and " an early mix/assembly " of the title track and lossless 24bit/96khz from original multitracks on dvd , dts-hd 24bit/96khz from original multitracks on blu-ray ) as well as the original stereo mixes , flat transfers from the original masters * bonus material in hi-res stereo , including single edits and studio run-throughs * blu-ray exclusive material : new instrumental stereo hi-res mixes of the original album , plus a high-quality needledrop of the original u.k. vinyl pressing special packaging for each variant -- a double digipak with slipcase for the cd/dvd-a and a mini-vinyl gatefold replica for the cd/blu-ray -- featuring roger dean 's iconic original artwork ( overseen by dean for this new edition ) and liner notes by writer sid smith with rare photos and archival material .  the new version of the album will be released next week ( october 21 ) .  wilson 's new version xtc ' nonsuch ' is also out this month .  details are :  the cd features a completely new stereo album mix , including non-album track did n't hurt a bit .  blu-ray features :  -- a 5.1 mix of the album in album mix by steven wilson , both in high resolution 96/24 lpcm stereo -- exclusive instrumental versions of all new mixes in 96/24 lpcm stereo -- exclusive andy partridge home demos and colin moulding work tapes for songs written for the album and contemporaneously. -- filmed footage of the band working on the album in chipping norton studios . -- promo films for the ballad of peter pumpkinhead and the disappointed also feature on the blu-ray .  with the induction of rush into the rock and roll hall of fame , one of the tent-pole overlooked acts has finally come off the wish list . that leaves only about thirty or forty more who deserve induction but have been overlooked .