Jellyfish born in space aren't happy on Earth
http://theconversation.com/jellyfish-born-in-space-arent-happy-on-earth-19177

jellyfish born in space are n't happy on earth  author  disclosure statement  rebecca helm does not work for , consult , own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article , and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond the academic appointment above .  why send jellyfish to space ? well , because it 's awesome which is true of anything involving space . but mostly because of little crystals that they keep in their bodies , and what these crystals can tell us about long-term human space travel .  when a jellyfish grows , it forms calcium sulfate crystals at the margin of its body ( termed a bell ) . these crystals are surrounded by a little cell pocket , coated in specialised hairs , which are equally spaced around the bell . when jellyfish turn , the crystals roll down with gravity to the bottom of the pocket , moving the cell hairs , which in turn send signals to nerve cells . in this way , jellyfish are able to sense this to happen is gravity .  humans have gravity sensing structures too , and therein lies the crux : in space with no gravity , will these structures grow normally ? if humans ever want to colonise places in deep space , then we may need to have kids in zero gravity . will these kids develop normal gravity sensing , even after growing up without it ?  for jellyfish , at least , things are n't so good . after developing in space , these astronaut jellyfish have a hard life back on earth . while development of the sensory pockets appears normal , many more jellies had trouble getting around once on the planet , including pulsing and movement abnormalities , compared to their earth-bound counterparts .  weightlessness , it 's my thing.hfiguiere  human gravity sensing is n't exactly like that of jellyfish , but it 's close . the human inner ear contains both fluids and small crystals , which tell us not only the angle of our head , but also our forward momentum . even with these differences , there is enough . in other words , if jellyfish babies have trouble gravity sensing on earth after being in space , human babies may be in trouble too .  human births in space could mean a lifetime of earthly confusion . long term space travel will be fraught with developmental challenges to the babies growing onboard . if the jellyfish say growing up in space is n't so great , we better be listening .