NewSat's $600 million satellite could see it join Australia's largest ...
http://www.smartcompany.com.au/leadership/34331-newsat-to-launch-600-million-satellite-on-track-to-join-australia-s-largest-businesses.html

NewSat 's $600 million satellite could see it join Australia 's largest businesses , or crash  Tuesday , 29 October 2013 0:31  Myriam Robin  Share  On the outskirts of Adelaide sits what 's called a teleport . It receives and transmits satellite signals to geostationary satellites , and sells that bandwidth on to third parties .  It 's one of two teleports owned by NewSat . The other is in Perth . Due to a mix of low rainfall , geographical position , state-of-the-art engineering and political stability , both teleports are considered some of the best places in the world from which to secure satellite bandwidth , offering up-times of nearly 100% .  NewSat , a microcap satellite company listed on the ASX , does not currently own any satellites . It 's a middle man . It buys bandwidth from the handful of major satellite companies and sells it on to governments and companies in the telecommunications and resource industry . But that 's about to change .  For the past few months , NewSat 's CEO , to raise the $600 million necessary to build and launch a satellite .  It was n't easy . When he started , his company had a market capitalisation of just $60 million .  But he 's pulled it off . Through a mix of export development funds and institutional investment , NewSat has the money to build its first satellite . Jabiru 1 is due to lift off in 2015 . If that launch is successful , NewSat will be well on track to become one of Australia 's largest , most profitable companies .  The barriers to entry in building , launching and operating satellites are extraordinary . But as governments and corporations increase their usage of high-quality communications their need for satellite bandwidth grows .  For companies able to offer new satellites , there 's a huge amount of money to be made . And NewSat is looking to cash in .  " The reason we 're launching a satellite is because we just ca n't get enough capacity from other vendors , " Ballintine tells SmartCompany .  " At the moment , satellite producers , we add value services to do it , and we on-sell that bandwidth . That 's a 30% margin business .  " By launching our own satellite , we become masters of our own capacity , and we go from a 30% margin business to an 80% margin business . "  That 's why he could raise the money . The demand for satellite bandwidth is huge . Already , Jabiru 1 has sold 20% of its capacity -- bringing in $800 million . Once it 's launched , Ballintine says it could bring in $3 billion in revenue , with earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( EBITDA ) of at least $150 million a year .  And that 's just one satellite . NewSat owns eight orbital slots . There are 160 in the world ( one for every two degrees along the equator ) . Into the eight slots it owns , NewSat can put 20 satellites . It 's already got plans for Jabiru 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 .  NewSat got its start through million in 2005 when its previous owners decided to sell their Australian operations . They 're very good teleports , but there are 1700 in the world overall . Ownership of the teleports was n't enough to break into the satellite game .  That took financing . A lot of it .  The bulk of the money came on loan from the American and French governments .  Building the satellite will create 1000 jobs at Lockheed Martin in the United States . And building the launcher will create 600 jobs at French company Arianespace .  " Both those governments spent a year doing due diligence on our contracts and our projects , and decided to lend us $400 million at 2% interest per annum . That 's why export money is the best money you can get . It 's cheap money , because you 're providing jobs . "  NewSat itself directly employs 75 people . But the hundreds of temporary jobs it would create in the United States and France got it $400 million in funding . NewSat then put $50 million of its million , and raised equity worth $100 million .  When it came to private investors , the bulk of interest came from the US and UK .  " Initially , we were laughed out of everyone 's offices in Australia , " Ballintine says . " We were a little company raising $600 million in a financial community that had no way of understanding anything about satellite technology . Australian analysts understand resources , and digging holes . It was just the wrong place to start . So we started in markets that understood space and satellites .  " Funding the first satellite is murder . The due diligence we had to go through was an enormous task . " But since they started , NewSat 's market cap has risen from $60 million to $300 million . As the company gets bigger , raising the funds for satellites will get easier .  But one huge risk remains : that of the satellite crashing to the ground .  That 's why NewSat is going with Arianespace to build its launcher . The French company has n't satellite is big . By global standards it 's huge . Ballantine says realistically , Arianespace was the only company who had a launcher big enough to carry it .  The technical aspects of the satellite and launcher are wholly built to minimise risk . The satellite design aims to change as little as possible from previous successful launches , so as not to introduce any new design flaws . Satellites stay up for at least 15 years , so the engineers are highly conservative , using only materials that have been tried and tested as opposed to the newest innovations . As one of NewSat 's engineers said to SmartCompany : " If a bolt has n't flown before , we do n't want it . "  If all else fails , NewSat pays $36 million in insurance premiums every year . It also owns the orbital slot next door , so it could migrate some of the contracts it 's already sold to Jabiru 2 , which it hopes to launch a few months after the first satellite .  But launch failure would be a huge even though there has n't been an Arianespace failure in 57 launches , an explosion is always a risk , " Ballintine says .  If it works though , the possibilities are extraordinary . NewSat could come from virtually nowhere to being one of Australia 's largest companies .  The sums speak for themselves .  Ballintine says satellite companies typically trade at multiples of between eight to 12 times EBITDA .  The EBITDA on NewSat 's first satellite is close to $200 million . If NewSat launches five , that 's a billion in EBITDA right there , which you 'd then multiply by at least eight to get a multibillion dollar market capitalisation .  " It 's not just a wild stab , " Ballintine says . " If we get our act right , and we launch multiple satellites ... there 's no question this could be a very large company indeed . "  Myriam Robin  Myriam Robin is a reporter for SmartCompany and its sister site LeadingCompany . She has degrees in economics , international studies and journalism . She likes  JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi .  JavaScript is currently disabled.Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi.  inside innovation : how 6 SMEs shook up business  BROUGHT TO YOU BY  Direct Links  Topics  Our Partners  SmartCompany.com.au is Australia 's leading website for SMEs featuring business news , business information and business blogs . SmartCompany 's archive of news , feature articles , entrepreneur interviews and business webinars cover topics such as advertising and marketing , buying or selling a business , starting a business , growing a business , franchising , SEO , superannuation and tax .