GBM Resources defines 2.5km copper-in-soil anomaly at Mt Morgan ...
http://www.proactiveinvestors.com.au/companies/news/49601/gbm-resources-defines-25km-copper-in-soil-anomaly-at-mt-morgan-project-in-queensland-49601.html

gbm resources has defined a 2.5 kilometre long semi-continuous copper-in-soil anomaly at its mt morgan gold-copper project in queensland .  gbm resources ' ( asx : gbz ) recent field work has defined a 2.5 kilometre long semi-continuous copper-in-soil anomaly at its mt morgan gold-copper project in queensland .  notably , the zone of porphyry-style hydrothermal alteration with associated copper mineralisation at the oakey creek prospect remains open to the north .  extensive scattered copper oxide along with native copper was observed in outcrop .  the company has also defined a north-west trending regional structure by a k:th airborne radiometric anomaly .  details  the company ranked the prospect area for attention on the strength of a linear k:th airborne radiometric anomaly parallel to the regional structural trend along with the presence of historic copper oxide workings .  the alteration zone is at least 3.2 kilometres by 1 kilometre in size , and is parallel to and partly overlapping the radiometric anomaly .  the linear nature of the alteration zone and its orientation suggests fault control to the system . scattered throughout the alteration zone and may have a genetic relationship to the alteration and mineralisation .  localised zones of intense copper-bearing hydrothermal breccia were also observed within the main alteration envelope .  copper oxide and occasional native copper is primarily hosted at the boundaries of the angular fine grain green clasts within the breccia .  the copper-in-soil anomaly generally correlates well with the broad alteration zone and the breccia .  rock-chip sampling within the alteration and breccia units produced a number of assays returning greater than 0.3% copper with peak results of 6.74% copper , 39.8ppm silver and 52ppb gold .  anomalous gold in soil is also present within the soil survey area with a peak assay of 0.2ppm gold with 31 samples returning greater than 100ppb gold .  however , the pattern of gold in soil does not correlate particularly well with copper and the low level gold response in the rock-chip samples indicating that more work is required to understand the gold anomalism at oakey creek .  the forward program at oakey creek prospect will see extensions to the current soil north along with continued detailed mapping and rock-chip sampling . ground induced potential ( ip ) geophysical surveys will then be considered to help define targets within the large alteration zone for drill testing .  the mt morgan project  the mount morgan project is located 40 kilometres southwest of rockhampton , queensland , close to the world class mt morgan copper-gold mine which produced in excess of 8.0m ounces of gold ( au ) and 400,000 tonnes of copper ( cu ) metal .  historic exploration in the mount morgan area has primarily focused on the discovery of a mount morgan analogue which has , up until recently , been interpreted by many as a vhms ( massive sulphide ) type .  until recent gbm work , no activity targeting intrusion related systems had been completed nor had there been thorough examination and interpretation of geophysical datasets or detailed compilation of existing exploration data .  proactive investors australia is the market leader in producing news , articles and research reports on asx " small and mid-cap " stocks with distribution in australia , uk , north @ @ @ @ @ @ @