Elementos Limited (ASX:ELT) Cleveland Project Tungsten Potential
http://www.abnnewswire.net/press/en/76123/Elementos_Limited_(ASX:ELT)_Cleveland_Project_Tungsten_Potential.html

elementos limited ( asx:elt ) cleveland project tungsten potential  brisbane , oct 29 , 2013 aest ( abn newswire ) - elementos limited ( asx:elt ) ( otcmkts:eltlf ) ( " elementos " or the " company " ) is pleased to announce a conceptual exploration target and work program for foley 's tungsten zone at cleveland .  independent consultants , mining one , have reported an exploration target for foley 's zone of between 72,000 and 120,000 tonnes of contained wo3 , below 850m rl . the exploration target , defined from 26 diamond drill holes totaling 6,796 metres , is tabulated below . the potential quantity and grade of the exploration target is conceptual in nature . there has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource .  the exploration target is in addition to the previously reported inferred mineral resource for foley 's zone above 850m rl which is more intensively drilled . the inferred mineral resource above 850m rl , estimated independently by mining 3.89mt @ 0.30% wo3 for total contained metal of 13,000 tonnes wo3 .  foley 's tungsten zone represents an exciting new opportunity for the company , and the potential of the tungsten deposit has not previously been recognised . tungsten is a high-value metal , with supplies of tungsten outside of china , which controls approximately 84% of the market , difficult to secure . the company will now commence a work program to study the development potential of the project .  cleveland tungsten project  at the cleveland project , the foley 's tungsten deposit is located approximately 350 metres below the mine portal and largely separate from the lodes that constitute the cleveland tin-copper resource , the primary short-term development focus of the company .  the foley 's tungsten mineralisation occurs principally as wolframite ( ( fe , mn ) wo3 ) , hosted in both the stock-work around , and within a greisenised porphyry dyke .  the company 's future development scenario for the foley 's tungsten deposit envisages an underground caving style operation , and recovery of saleable concentrates through standard gravity , tasmanian minerals province is well supported by developed infrastructure and a strong mining culture . cleveland is linked to burnie export port by sealed roads . accessible power runs through the cleveland exploration licence area , and there is abundant processing water available . the burnie region has a large , available , and industrial and mine savvy workforce .  exploration target  mining one have independently reviewed historical data relating to the foley 's tungsten deposit , and defined a geological model and exploration target outlining its potential . the exploration target , which is separate to the jorc inferred mineral resource , has been defined from 26 diamond drill holes into foley 's zone totaling 6,796 metres , sampled and assayed over 2.5 metre intervals drill-hole intercepts in mineralisation totaled 3,638 metres at a length-weighted average grade of 0.20% wo3 .  the tungsten bearing stock-work is currently considered to dip vertically and has a known strike length of about 300 metres , an across strike width of up to 300 metres and a down dip extent of 900 metres .  elementos is an australian , asx-listed stage tin-copper and tungsten project in tasmania , together with a number of prospective copper and gold assets in south america and australia .