Court Pursues Eritrean Woman . For Kidnapping Two Children
http://news.peacefmonline.com/pages/social/201601/266413.php

a high court in accra has issued an absconding warrant on the head of an eritrean woman , wintay b. tefamarian , who has taken custody of her two children . she is to be arrested and produced in court on january 15 , 2016 .  wintay b. tefamarian , who had on 21st december 2015 , in the company of some police officers , bailiffs other people ransacked the house of her husband , temesgen mahray gebreyesus in his absence and forcefully took away his two children , selihom temegsen aged 10 and sesihom temegsen , aged 9 , is being wanted by the police per the warrant .  wintay b. tefamarian has seized the two children on a judgment she purported to have acquired from justice doris bimpong who was sitting on a pending divorce suit she filed at the high court .  justice doris bimpong gave judgement for which a certificate of divorce dated 17th october , 2015 , and another court order dated 27th october , 2015 was granted to wintay b. tefamarian to take custody of the children . of the two children has filed a motion for redress in respect of the enforcement of his fundamental human rights under order 67 of c.i 47 .  temesgen mahray gebreyesus has also filed the motion against the high court , attorney general and his wife , wintay b. tefamarian .  in his affidavit in support , temesgen mahray gebreyesus , a building technician stated that he and his wife had a divorce petition before the high court of which his wife had furnished the court with all her evidence-in-chief and did not call any witness . he had also opened his defense .  " ... my lawyer and i have never been served with any court hearing notice to come to court and i have been searching for the court to no avail , " he observed .  according to him , he was hinted that his wife and her lawyer dubik mahama had procured a court order for divorce and another order for custody of their two children .  he stated that whilst he was in court on 21st december 2015 , he received a bailiffs and his wife wintay b. tefamarian and other people entered his house , including his own bedroom in his absence and forcefully seized his two children , selihom temegsen aged 10 and sesihom temegsen aged 9 .  he stated that on that same day at the court , a bailiff came to serve him with the two orders which his wife and her lawyer managed to procured . " i broke down at the court complex , " he stated .  " that the actions by armed policemen , bailiffs , lawyer dubik mahama and my wife amount to kidnapping of my young , fragile children who should not be subjected to this situation , " he said .  temesgen mahray gebreyesus also stressed that he believed that the two court orders were procured by fraud , deceit and forgery since he had never been notified to appear in any court for the continuation of his evidence on the 17 october 2015 or any other earlier date .  justice emmanuel amoyartey after haven read the affidavit , heard from k.o amponsah-dadzie esq . counsel for the the arrest of the 3rd respondent , wintay b. tefamarian .  " it is further ordered that the 3rd respondent wintay b. tefamarian or any other person is prohibited from taking away the two children , namely , selihom temesgen aged 10years and sesinons temesgen aged 9 years for 22 days . "  disclaimer : opinions expressed here are those of the writers and do not reflect those of peacefmonline.com . peacefmonline.com accepts no responsibility legal or otherwise for their accuracy of content . please report any inappropriate content to us , and we will evaluate it as a matter of priority .