Stellar.Org And Oradian Provide New Money Transfer Service for ...
http://www.newsghana.com.gh/stellar-org-and-oradian-provide-new-money-transfer-service-for-rural-nigerians/

Today , rural Nigerians gain access to something previously out of reach : affordable direct payments . Until now , sending money home often involved delivering cash by hand or trusting a traveler or bus driver to deliver it . With this new ability to transfer money at very low cost , rural communities have leapfrogged into the future .  Western Union Money Transfer  Stellar.org , a nonprofit foundation that supports a universal financial platform , and Oradian , a fintech company that provides core-banking software for local financial organizations in West Africa , today announced the launch of a low-cost live payment transfer network among microfinance organizations in Nigeria . By integrating the open-source Stellar network into its core-banking software , Oradian has made low-cost payments available to a select set of its customers . This network reaches a total of 200 branches and serves over 300,000 end clients ( over 90% are women ) , mainly in rural areas across Nigeria . This network will continue to grow as more integrations are completed .  Moving money is notoriously difficult and particularly punishing the population is underbanked or unbanked .  Oradian 's innovative core-banking platform , Instafin , is used by microfinance institutions all over Nigeria . By integrating the Stellar network , Oradian will enable two things . First , MFIs will be able to transfer money between their branches seamlessly . Second , MFI customers who are mainly based in rural areas will be able to send money to other MFI customers in distant villages or cities , in real time , by simply visiting their local MFI .  " We are delighted to be working with Stellar , as this supports our ambition to empower the delivery of financial services to the underserved . With Stellar 's technology , we change the way money is being handled and transferred across geographies , in a secure , instant and cheap manner . This new disruptive service further proves that Oradian 's core-banking system is the leader in bringing new services to the underserved at scale , " said Antonio Separovic , Managing Director at Oradian .  " We 're beyond excited to be working with Oradian to launch the Kim , Executive Director of Stellar.org . " With the Oradian integration , communities that primarily relied upon cash for money transfer in and out of their villages can now transfer money instantly and safely , regardless of their location . This is the first step towards creating a universal payment network for the unbanked , and brings us closer to fulfilling Stellar.org 's mission of using a universal platform to bring financial services to all . "