Esi Baako Kaba formerly of GNA goes home
https://www.newsghana.com.gh/esi-baako-kaba-formerly-of-gna-goes-home/

esi baako kaba formerly of gna goes home  the body would be laid in state on saturday at the brenuakyim presby school down , followed by a burial service at the st. matthews catholic church at tarkwa  mrs benedicta esi baako kabathe late mrs kaba , 35 , until her death , was one of the most admired , trusted , thorough , finest and hard working journalists of the agency .  her departure has created an irreplaceable vacuum in the agency , especially in the editorial department , where she would forever be remembered .  meanwhile tributes continue to pour in from loved ones as well as from various organisations which she fondly covered assignments and reported for .  the strategic communications for africa ( stratcomm ) , in a message of condolence , said it was saddened to learn about the death of mrs kaba , who was described as a dear colleague of the inky fraternity .  " we wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the management and staff of the ghana news agency , the husband  the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) , in a similar message , described the news of the death as tragic .  it said " esi , as we fondly called her was our friend and partner in the advocacy for refugees and statelessness persons . we are deeply shocked to hear the news , but we shall remember her for her high level of professionalism and active participation in the unhcr statelessness training for journalists held in senegal in december 2014 " .  it consoled the gna , the family , the husband and the entire media landscape of ghana for having lost a true gem , and expressed the hope that the parties involved would be granted the inner strength to bear the burden .  the late mrs kaba was born on may 24 , 1981 at tarkwa and attended the st louis secondary school in kumasi , from 1997 to 1999 .  she obtained her diploma in communication studies from the ghana institute of journalism in 2005 , and was employed by the gna on may 1 , 2009 . where she graduated with a bachelor 's degree in political science and information studies in november 2015