Avoid Provocative Utterances - Apostle Amoani
http://peacefmonline.com/pages/local/social/201608/288266.php

Political parties and Ghanaians in general have been urged to avoid provocative utterances during the electioneering in order to ensure that peace prevailed before , during and after the 2016 presidential and parliamentary elections .  Apostle Dr Stephen Kwame Amoani , the Chairman of the Christ Apostolic Church International ( CACI ) , said the success or failure of the elections depended on all Ghanaians .  " The clergy , judiciary , professional bodies , religious bodies , civil society , the various interest groups and the electorate in general all have their respective roles to play to make the nation a winner , " he said .  Apostle Amoani was addressing the closing ceremony of the 2016 International Prophetic Conference ( Tarry Camp ) of the CACI on the theme : " The Overcoming Power of the Last Days " .  The conference is one of the major prayer festivals on the church 's calendar aimed at thanking God for His faithfulness , providence and protection over the church and the nation as a whole .  More than fifteen thousand worshipers which was also an occasion to seek the face of God for His favour for the individual members , the church , and the nation in the ensuing years .  " I appeal to all and sundry to avoid baseless suspicion and prejudice and do away with electoral trivialities and pettiness , " Apostle Amoani said , adding that people of integrity and proven abilities and capabilities should be voted for .  Dr Baffour Agyei Bawuah , a former Ambassador to Japan , urged all stakeholders in the political process to refrain from such unfortunate acts that would mar the success of the elections .  Delivering a message on behalf of the political parties which were invited by the church to deliver peace messages , he urged them to pray for peace and success for Ghana 's upcoming general election .  Dr Bawuah appealed to Ghanaians to continue to work towards sustaining the prevailing peace as anything contrary to that would plunge the nation into chaos which would affect the current and future generations .  Disclaimer : Opinions expressed here are those of the writers and responsibility legal or otherwise for their accuracy of content . Please report any inappropriate content to us , and we will evaluate it as a matter of priority .