No School Under Trees In Adaklu - DCE
http://peacefmonline.com/pages/local/education/201608/288268.php

mr emmanuel sky ganaku , adaklu district chief executive ( dce ) says the assembly with support from some non-governmental organisations ( ngos ) has removed all schools under trees in the district .  he said although some schools need to be rebuilt , none of the more than 70 communities in the district have schools under trees .  mr ganaku said this at the inauguration of a five-unit classroom block with sanitation facilities at kordiabe , built by pencils of promise , an ngo to serve adaklu-tokor and kordiabe communities .  children in pre-school from the two communities have lessons in the evangelical presbyterian church chapel after a rainstorm brought down their dilapidated kindergarten block 12 years ago .  the new classroom blocks , which was also supported by the assembly and the member of parliament , were provided with tables and chairs .  mr ganaku said the assembly is proud to have chosen education as its priority and " building adaklu through education " .  " the only thing after god is education , " he added .  the district has no apology for prioritising and investing in education and hopeful that the initiative would propel rapid socio-economic development of the area .  he said concerns of potable water and bad roads are being addressed and assured that contractors would move to site soon to begin work on the roads .  madam cynthia gbadago , district director of education commended pencils of promise for helping close educational infrastructure gap in the district .  mr freeman gobah , country director , pencils of promise , said the motivation of the non-governmental organization was to ensure that every child had access to quality education and urged the communities to maintain the facilities .  mr godwin kusiaku , headmaster of kordiabe e.p . primary school said pencils of promise , the adaklu assembly and the mp has rekindled hope in the pupils with the construction of the classroom blocks .  disclaimer : opinions expressed here are those of the writers and do not reflect those of peacefmonline.com . peacefmonline.com accepts no responsibility legal or otherwise for their accuracy of content . please report any inappropriate content to of priority .