President Mahama Advises Deputy Ministers To Eschew Arrogance
http://peacefmonline.com/pages/politics/politics/201608/288270.php

president john dramani mahama on tuesday admonished ministers of state to eschew arrogance and other negative tendencies that could undermine the progress of the country .  " you must always remember that your duty is to render service to the people diligently irrespective of their political affiliation , ethnicity and geographical location ... for arrogance wo n't take you anywhere . "  president mahama gave the admonishment when he swore-in mr emmanuel habuka bombande and joseph tetteh angmor as deputy minister of foreign affairs and regional integration and deputy eastern regional minister respectively .  the two deputy ministers , who were nominated by president mahama , vetted by parliament and approved on july 11this year , took the oaths of office , secrecy and allegiance .  president mahama advised them to exhibit a high level of circumspection by listening to the plight of the people with tolerance and objectivity to enable them to contribute their quota to nation-building .  president mahama urged them to lead modest lives by taking counsel from more experienced politicians and the people they were serving .  , president mahama appealed to him to use his experience and expertise in peace-building to help the ministry in its engagements with other neighbouring countries that were experiencing some crisis .  he advised mr angmor , the deputy eastern regional minister , to leverage his experience as district chief executive to the benefit of people in the region and beyond by carrying out activities that would deepen grassroot democracy .  he cautioned the duo that pressure would be placed on them as their substantive ministers are parliamentary candidates who would be campaigning for their seats in the december polls .  " the two of you will be compelled to carry more responsibilities because your two ministers will be campaigning for parliamentary seats in the forthcoming general election in december this year , " he said .  mr bombande , on behalf of his colleague , commended president mahama for giving them the opportunity to serve ghana in their capacity as deputy ministers of state .  " we promise to serve the people with dedication , integrity and commitment in appreciation of the honour done us . be their guiding principles to serve ghanaians diligently .  disclaimer : opinions expressed here are those of the writers and do not reflect those of peacefmonline.com . peacefmonline.com accepts no responsibility legal or otherwise for their accuracy of content . please report any inappropriate content to us , and we will evaluate it as a matter of priority .