Home &gt; Politics &gt; Politics &gt; 201610 &gt; Costly Pursuit of US$3bn CDB ...
http://www.peacefmonline.com/pages/politics/politics/201610/296466.php

president john dramani mahama has provided $6 million ( gh ? 23m ) to cater for the expenses of his presidential special task force set up to " pursue the release of the outstanding balance of $2 billion " from the controversial $3 billion chinese loan .  according to a cabinet memo in possession of the daily statesman , the $6million covers three main cost components , with the areas of expenditure listed to include " catered breakfast for ghana team and visiting guests at negotiating venue ; catered snacks for day-long meeting breaks ; catered lunch for ghana team and visiting guests as ( sic ) negotiating venue ; courtesy dinner for visiting cdb team upon closure of negotiation meetings . "  chinese fried rice is the most popular food served for lunch and dinner in a typical chinese restaurant , while among the popular snacks is prawn crackers .  other important areas of expenditure for the task force 's travel to beijing include " hotel costs in beijing for team members , as well as per diem for subsistence ( dsa ) cdb scheduled events or trips , comparable projects familiarization visits , etc. , that tends to be mandatory in the course of negotiation visits . "  the mandate of the taskforce is principally to see to the release of the $2 billion . they are to first of all see to the release of the $500 million for the three projects already agreed and also for the release of the remaining $1.5 billion , which , according to a may 2016 ' decisions memorandum ' , " the president would determine the utilization of the $1.5 billion that will remain after the commitments above are made . "  it was in march 2016 that the president agreed to pay the amount of $6 million . he instructed that the ghana infrastructure fund should be responsible for " the funding of the work of the task force established by the president to pursue the $3 billion loan , and as a consequence of giif taking over gog obligations , for giif to allocate an amount equivalent of $6 million to fund the work of the task force . "  chinese will agree to reactivate the chinese development bank facility .  in october 2015 , the president set up the task force " to re-engage cdb with the aim of utilizing the remainder of the us$3 billion cdb loan . "  the $3 billion commercial loan was hastily signed , against the advice of the parliamentary minority , under a master facility agreement between the government of ghana and the cdb on december 16 , 2011 , following parliamentary approval in july 2011 .  since then , $1 billion has been released . $850 million was used for the ghana gas project in a deal that was awarded to sinopec , a chinese firm , without a competitive tender .  in addition , a whopping $150 million was also awarded to the chinese to install " it enhanced surveillance project to provide aerial security for the oil and gas enclave in the western region . " experts say the entire ict infrastructure could have been done with $50 million , if it was not sole-sourced .  the agreement meant ghana allowing the chinese to lift 13,000 jubilee fields everyday . even then , the chinese saw that as insufficient .  the hastily signed facility , as was warned by the opposition new patriotic party , suffered persistent disagreement between gog and cdb , with the chinese refusing to release any more funds .  finally in 2015 , the mahama cabinet approved a recommendation to reduce the facility to $1.5 billion to cover the two projects already under development and three , pending subsidiary agreements .  the three were : ( 1 ) spending $200 million to build just 12 fishing landing sites , ( 2 ) using $100 million in a dangerously discretionary manner as loans for sme projects incubation and ( 3 ) spending another $200 million on a scheme described as ' accra intelligent traffic management project . '  however , cdb did not agree to the cabinet decision and refused to disburse any funds beyond the $1 billion .  " when cabinet 's decision was transmitted to cdb , cdb in turn decided to reduce the facility to us$1.0billion to cover the two projects that were under development , cdb 's opinion , the 13,000 barrels per day of crude oil that gog had committed to the repayment of the facility was not even sufficient to support the repayment of the committed us$1.0billion , " a cabinet memo signed by finance minister seth terkper discloses .  several other offers from the ghana government in 2014 went unheeded , until last year when government saw a glimmer of hope , leading to the set up of the special task force .  the mr terkper confirms this in his memo to cabinet : " at a meeting in beijing in july 2014 , gog offered other resources such as lpg for cdb consideration ; however , this was turned down by cdb . in april 2015 , however , cdb by letter dated 30 april 2015 , informed gog that they would consider the suitability of lpg only after their own due diligence to determine its suitability as security for repayment of the facility .  further communication between gog and cdb stalled at that point , until the appointment of the new presidential special task force , which revived disclaimer : opinions expressed here are those of the writers and do not reflect those of peacefmonline.com . peacefmonline.com accepts no responsibility legal or otherwise for their accuracy of content . please report any inappropriate content to us , and we will evaluate it as a matter of priority .