Ivanovic: We're lucky Abramovich only sacked Mourinho
http://www.goal.com/en-gh/news/4363/premier-league/2016/03/04/21001712/ivanovic-were-lucky-abramovich-only-sacked-mourinho

" jose did n't change . he did n't change the way he prepared the game , " the 32-year-old told the daily mail . " he did n't change the way he treated us . he did n't change anything . he was the same .  " football is about players . the managers are not on the pitch . it is 11 against 11 . you have to be better than your opponent and , at the beginning of the season , we were n't .  " the players were more responsible for that situation than the manager . of course it is difficult in football to change 25 players halfway through the season .  " but i think at this club if abramovich could have , he would have changed all of us as well . it 's difficult to say it was only one guy 's responsibility . "  ivanovic claims the players were all mentally prepared for the beginning of the new campaign , with mourinho emphasising to the players how difficult it would be to retain the going wrong around us , " he said . " no-one inside the club knew . we finished brilliantly last season . we won the trophy . we knew how difficult it was .  " jose told us the hardest season in football is the year after you win because everyone else has extra motivation . we were ready for that , but we did n't start well and we lost control of our game , of our minds .  " for me that period of three or four months was one of the most disappointing moments in my career . player by player , we could not deal with the pressure of what being champions of england means .  " your opponents have big motivation and they look at you differently , they start to be scared of you .  " but when we did n't win for six or seven games , people realised we were not as strong as last season . they could use that . and then they were n't scared of us . this was our problem as players . " premier league since guus hiddink took temporary charge of the club and jumped into the league 's top 10 with a 2-1 win over norwich city on tuesday .  1 . phone number  please include country code ( 233 ) at the start of the number . eg 233202004002