Akomea issued fake statement in my name - Nkansah
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/Akomea-issued-fake-statement-in-my-name-Nkansah-442092

Akomea issued fake statement in my name - Nkansah  Solomon Nkansah , Deputy Communications Officer of the governing National Democratic Congress ( NDC ) has accused the National Communications Director of the opposition New Patriotic ( NPP ) , Nana Akomea for issuing a fake statement in his Nkansah 's name to foot soldiers of the party to receive refunds of monies from ' abnormal ' electricity charges .  A letter which circulated on social media and was attributed to Solomon Nkansah had it that , all card bearing members of the NDC who have been affected by the over billing of electricity charges , were to meet at their various regional party offices to be given refunds of their monies .  But Solomon Nkansah speaking in an interview with Kwame Tutu on Rainbow Radio said , his investigations has revealed that Nana Akomea and one other Agyekum faked the letter to score cheap political points and discredit him Nkansah .  According to him , the NPP are scheming against the NDC over the decision of the Public Utility Regulation Commission ( PURC Electricity of Ghana ( ECG ) .  Solomon Nkansah explained , the NPP are engaging in various frivolous schemes to give government a bad name over the mishaps and over billing of consumers by the ECG .  The NPP he emphasied had wanted the NDC to have defended the ECG over the billing so they could lambast government for that , but since their ploy failed , they have issued a fake statement to discredit him .  He revealed that government initiated a body together with the Power Ministry , PURC and other stakeholders to probe complains of consumers hence the directive by the PURC for the ECG to suspend their billing .  Solomon Nkansah added , only a mentally challenged person will issue such a fake statement to discredit his political opponent and has dared Nana Akomea to deny the allegations and see what will happen after that .  He warned Nana Akomea that he will disgrace him if he tries to deny issuing the statement .  Meanwhile Deputy Communications Director of the NPP , lawyer Mike Ocquaye Jnr . was disappointed that Solomon in his Nkansah 's name .  According to him , although the statement is fake , blaming Nana Akomea is unfortunate , sheer propaganda and baseless . He stressed the said letter did not come from the headquarters of the opposition NPP.