Cassava Shortage: Minister blames external factors for cassava ...
http://pulse.com.gh/agriculture/cassava-shortage-minister-blames-external-factors-for-cassava-shortage-id5078977.html

deputy minister of food and agriculture dr ahmed yakubu alhassan has blamed external factors for cassava shortage in the country .  a shortage of cassava has been reported across the country prompting a sharp rise in the price .  a bag of 250 kilogram of cassava which used to sell for ghc 200 now sells at ghc 600 and beyond in accra . same kilos which used to sell for ghc20 in parts of the brong ahafo region now sells at ghc 100 .  according to alhassan , the problem is wider than the ministry 's mandate .  " there are transport issues , there are infrastructure issues , " he said in an interview with citi fm . " so you know that it is a distribution problem which is wider than the mandate of the ministry . "  " there are remoteness of production areas in relation to markets ... " these are all things that are outside the mandate of the ministry , he said .  " i do n't build roads , " he noted .  country .  " this country as at last year produced17 million metric tonnes of cassava and we need just 10 million tonnes to feed the population , " the minister added .  cassava traders have rubbished claims by consumers that they have taken undue advantage of the situation to further increase cassava prices on the market .  some cassava sellers who spoke to pulse.com.gh indicated that it has become a waste of time and resources moving from village to village and town to town in search of cassava to sell since the commodity is so scarce .  the situation has compelled traders in the brong ahafo and surrounding villages such as ampoma , amoma , anyima and suamere know for the best quality of cassava to inflate the prices of the little cassava that are available for sale .  " i use to buy a bag of cassava from ampoma for as low as ghc 20 but it is now expensive and i now buy the same bag at ghc 100 so i have to inflate it in order to make profit , " maame 5 can get just one bag of cassava , you have to reach agbogbloshie market as early as 2am . you should have the strength to climb the truck that brings the cassava and also to struggle with others over the tubers , because the traders are more than the bags of cassavas that are brought to the market , " another cassava seller at lapaz market in accra recounted .  this scarcity has been largely blamed on the weather pattern . the rains have not been favorable affecting the tuber which used to be the cheapest product on the market . transport hikes in transportation fares is also another factor .  " i also consider the cost of transport fares when pricing , " another cassava seller at the madina market said .  the sad thing is the little cassava one is able to buy is not wholesome after cooking in many instances .  at this point fufu lovers will have to keep their fingers crossed and hope the weather is favorable the next cassava season .