Textile - Pakistan vs. India
http://nation.com.pk/columns/20-Mar-2013/textile-pakistan-vs-india

textile - pakistan vs . india  as pakistan moves forward to further liberalise trade with india ( a positive move ) , one comes across this quiet kind of confidence in the pakistani textile sector about its ability to compete successfully with its indian counterpart ; of course , if it is provided with a level playing field . no harm , since confidence and perception are key hallmarks of any business success story , and more importantly if the growth in pakistan 's textiles has to be sustainable , then the sector needs to achieve this by competing against the best in this business . however , often one has seen that confidence if not accompanied by prudence can easily lead to complacency . and given pakistan 's industrial track record , one can not help but notice that it is in being complacent , and not being proactive and innovative where our weakness lies . while we may be ready to compete with india in the traditional items based on comparative costs , quality and designs , it is the long-term vision where we future global growth and profitability is going to come from endeavours that save on energy and natural resources , and are environmentally friendly , ' green textile production ' , as it is referred to . and this is where india appears to be far ahead of us in comparison.scientists from indian institute of technology ( iit ) , new delhi , are close to releasing a type of fabric in the market that will not pick up dirt and even if it does after prolonged use , it can be washed with sunlight . at the heart of this experiment lies nanotechnology , which is being applied by indian scientists to improve the performance of textiles ; something that is generating global interest . nano stands for one billionth of a meter . the nature 's nanotechnology has been perfected over a billion of years . for example , the self-cleaning properties found in the nano-structured surface of lotus leaves are natural designs , referred to as the ' lotus leave effect ' . going forward based on this , the coating of nano titanium dioxide particles on clothes has in the presence of sunlight . if this works , dirty clothes can be ' cleaned ' by merely putting them in the sun . the cloth will also not pick up any dirt because of nano particles . yet , another fabric that iit is researching is based on nano-composite polymer coating , which will have improved strength and gas barrier property . once developed , it can be useful in key defence applications , e.g. inflatable gear requirements in aerostat and aerial delivery systems . research and development on other new textiles areas , being actively pushed by india 's textile ministry include antibacterial , uv ( ultraviolet light ) protective and water repellent breathable fabrics . a range of antimicrobial textile finishes and products based on nano-silver have already been commercialised and are finding use in the medical sector , such as sutures and wound dressings and other health and hygiene textiles.over the last decade , india has been the blue chip for the fast evolving retail sector that is riding high on the lifestyle products , especially fashion apparels , home textiles , jewellery and footwear . mainly via brand outlets and malls is approximately $30 billion . nearly 30 percent of this turnover is for the major lifestyle products , including apparels and textiles . the steady growth of the retail sector and the growing consumer preference of branded lifestyle products , especially the branded apparel and innerwear , is the impact the now open indian economy is having from the western markets . the onslaught of branded fashion wear has also created a stream of premium products carrying the green theme by way of textiles of natural or organic materials . driven by the increasing demand from the global multinational corporations ( mnc ) retailers , the green theme in india is the fastest growing textile sector ( both in terms of volume and value ) and has created a plethora of new and innovative fibre blends and blended yarn fabrics , which are in vogue by the fashion industry . a direct impact of this green movement in indian textiles can be gauged by the increasing interest and growing demand for organic cottons , which are now being grown in selective farming areas in central organic exchange ( oe ) and oeko tex . india has become the largest producer of organic cottons at 25-30,000 tons per annum , with a share of nearly 25 percent in global organic cotton production . if pakistan 's textiles are to go the ' next ' step , then our industry like its counterpart in india , needs to become increasingly aware of the sustainable production challenges . the global demand for textiles , especially lifestyle and premium fashion products , is being driven strongly by a very large ' youth ' population ( below the average age of 30 years old , as per the survey by american textiles ' consumers association ) . this group is educated , well employed , fashion savvy and has the necessary disposable income for indulging in consumer tastes , influenced by ethical , moral and responsible behaviour . meaning that , they are sensitive to global warming and green movements.the indian textile ministry and manufacturers both have become increasingly aware of the sustainable production and global growth challenges , which can primarily be countered by developing products that conserve energy and nature in order to minimise pollution , effluents and the process usage of hazardous materials . pakistan also needs to follow suit . it is all very well for our textile industry to moan and cry about gas shortages , etc , which one agrees need to be resolved at least in the short term , but if they are to meaningfully grow in the long term , their focus will need to shift to innovation and adapting of the evolving international trends - something that will not only give them sustainable growth , but also higher earnings .  the writer is an entrepreneur and economic analyst . email : kamal.monnoo@gmail.com