Are we Conscientious as a Nuclear Power?
http://blogs.thenews.com.pk/blogs/2013/03/are-we-conscientious-as-a-nuclear-power/

are we conscientious as a nuclear power ?  no matter what potential insecurities americans might have with our nuclear safety , pakistan accords the highest priority ensuring a foolproof nuclear security mechanism . and it 's no wonder that pakistan has the reputation of being an active member of the nuclear security summit ( nss ) and global initiative to combat nuclear terrorism ( gicnt ) .  according to strategic planning division ( spd ) , over 8000 additional professionals are being trained at pakistan 's specialized nuclear security training academy to assume their duties proficiently in a short period of time . this brings the number of specially trained personnel to the figure of over 20,000 personnel . besides , a nuclear and radiological emergency coordination center ( nrecc ) with fully equipped mobile labs , is working on technical assistance with law enforcement agencies and the first responders .  the conscientious pakistan continues to refine and upgrade its technical and human resources and mechanisms on safety and security of nuclear weapons , materials , facilities , and assets . as pakistan has it has established a " center of excellence " ready to share nuclear experience and training facilities . pakistan has subscribed to the iaea code of conduct on the safety and security of radioactive sources , and the iaea illicit trafficking database ( itdb ) .  the escalation of the arms race in south asia commenced when obama administration signed us-india civil nuclear cooperation agreement . in order to put right the balance of power , pakistan demanded for a similar civil-nuclear deal . but the administration deflected on it . as pakistan lives in a tough neighborhood , therefore , it will never be oblivious to its security needs and should have deterrent capabilities as a nuclear power . pakistani leadership is suspicious of us aims of controlling or limiting its weapons programme while favoring india .  in the backdrop of mumbai terror attacks-2008 , india 's threats of carrying out surgical operation inside pakistan if action is not taken against the perpetuators , clearly shows that india wants to assert itself as a super power capable of conducting an unchecked forays into foreign domain . according to would be to " roll the nuclear dice " . it could trigger the world 's first use of nuclear weapons . this alarming scenario point pakistan in the direction of a larger nuclear force that requires a greater amount of fissile material .  while analyzing the nuclear threat , it was generally agreed in the london meeting-2009 , that india and pakistan view each other as enemies . nuclear weapons are crucial to pakistan , because pakistani military is no match for the indian army .  therefore , pakistan is justified to work on producing smaller tactical nuclear weapons that can provide ' deterrence ' against indian nuclear might . however , pakistan is determined to continue to follow a responsible policy of maintaining credible minimum deterrence in the nuclearized environment of south asia . the spokesman of pakistan foreign office said , " pakistan is mindful of the need to avoid an arms race with india but would never compromise on its national security . "  all states need to shoulder their shared responsibility to strengthen regulatory mechanisms and establish effective barriers against the common threat an indian delusion -- just as pakistani nuke is a delusion against india -- " sub thath puraa ruh jaavegaa jub laad chaley gaa banjara " .  nukes are instruments of collective suicide .  farooq hashmi  noted for compliance .  farooq hashmi  lalaji , just provoke pakistan to try them .  farooq hashmi  vulpine gandhiji and his sidekick mr.nehru outwitted a fox in their filthy design of keeping muslims under hindus ' thumb for ever ..  http : **30;162;toolong shivanshu goswami  then why did gandhi stand so vehemently for rights of muslims . its funny to see indians hating gandhi for supporting muslims , and pakistanis hating him for supporting hindus .  m.saeed  gandhi hated his own son who adopted islam !  farooq hashmi  caravans march and dogs bark .  farooq hashmi  the blogger has remarked that in a conciliatory tone . it 's not seventies of the 20th century . it 's teen years of the 21st century in which both the countries are armed to the teeth with nuclear weapons . any war between be obliterated . jingoism of you and some other numb-skulls of country are dangerously fanning the belligerent sentiments  http : **30;194;toolong shivanshu goswami  most people in the two counties are so misfortunate , that a jingoist/heroic death seems better than living their miserable lives .  farooq hashmi  his comment is the stink of the oral diarrhea of ' the hindu ' newspaper of bharat .  http : **30;226;toolong shivanshu goswami  " the hindu " is a very responsible , leftist inclined newspaper and never publishes such hate filled words . blame your own notorious moderator for this .  wan na quote a bad indian newspaper ? quote the " times of india " .  m.saeed  my dear goswami , i also maintained the same views about " the hindu " , not long ago and tried to register for my comments after getting fed-up with toi 's lack of decency/decorum . but then , i saw some readers ' comments published that even crossed the toi 's limits ! you can check yourself simply by observing any news now published in it  poor thing bharat ! how cruel the world is that it 's knitting its eye-brows at bharat for keeping " a few " nukes " as a deterrence against china " , and how war-hysteric pakistan is that it has 200 nuclear war-heads to " brow-beat " bharat ! pakistan 's security apprehensions at bharat 's nukes are unfounded , the posterity of the " angel " kotylia , the " noble-hearted " bharatis are keeping them only " as a deterrence against china , yes , only " as a deterrence against china . " pakistanis should not take bharatis ' " assurance " with a grain of salt .  http : **30;258;toolong shivanshu goswami  yeah , they should prepare for genocide instead , while millions are without electricity or education in pakistan . please compare the % spending on defense education and poverty reduction by the two countries .  as an honest enemy , i suggest you to not take chances with your security . but as a human being , i implore you to see reason and stop this madness .  m.saeed  hyderabad-duccan on majority hindu basis and did the opposite in muslim majority j&amp;k ?  do n't you see the junagardh example of pakistan 's fairness on principles ?  mirza baig , india  where are these presently being used freely and excessively ? be prepared at the same place they would be used /experimented first . what you have been sowing , so shall you will be reaping . congratulations  mirza baig , india  and what about innocents being butchered daily in balochistan , karachi , gilgit , fata in sectarian killings and that also not other than by our own muslims . muslims are killing muslims . is it not a shame for you .  http : **30;290;toolong shivanshu goswami  " innocent people in india ? "  so the excessive actions of a few indian army men makes everyone in india guilty . by your logic , the actions of a handful of terrorists are sufficient to call all muslims terrorists . you are making the logical fallacy of generalization .  also , you conveniently ignore the countless murders of kashmiri pandits  i agree , with every word . saner people need to raise their voices . most people in the two counties are so misfortunate , that a jingoist/heroic death seems better than living their miserable lives .  nasir amin  well indians i wish your lovely , golden words and comments are reflected in the policies of your policy makers and actions of your government as well .