SA scores for growth in 2050 study
http://www.southafrica.info/business/economy/theworldin2050.htm

economy  sa scores for growth in 2050 study  10 january 2011 an updated study by consultancy firm pricewaterhousecoopers , " the world in 2050 " , projects that south africa will be the seventh fastest-growing economy between now and 2050 , with an average annual real growth rate of five percent . released last week , the revised version of " the world in 2050 " also predicts that in purchasing power parity terms , the e7 group of emerging countries ( china , india , brazil , russia , mexico , indonesia and turkey ) will overtake the g7 economies ( us , japan , germany , uk , france , italy and canada ) by 2020 . " our key conclusion is that the global financial crisis has further accelerated the shift in global economic power to the emerging economies , " the report says . the original version was published in 2006 , before the 2008-09 crisis . with reference to south africa , the report projects an average annual population growth rate of 0.3% , and an average annual gdp ( from now until 2050 . it ranks south africa as the world 's twentieth largest economy in 2009 , both in terms of purchasing power parity , with the economy worth us$508-billion , and at market exchange rate rankings , with the economy worth $286-billion . however , by 2050 , south africa is projected to drop out of the top-20 ranking , where it could be replaced by nigeria , which has a higher average annual growth rate till 2050 ( at 7.9% ) , a higher average annual growth rate per capita of five percent , and higher average annual population growth rate of 1.5% . nigeria has the largest expected contribution from population growth over the next 40 years , which will significantly increase its working age population contributing to gdp growth . the study points out , however , that nigeria 's high growth rate is also subject to a " considerable degree of uncertainty due to its need to address issues relating to current over-dependence on oil and various institutional and governance issues that have held back its growth potential in some past periods " . 2020 , china is expected to pass the us as the largest economy in the world , while india could also overtake the us economy , in purchasing power parity terms , by 2050 . the report finds that , even when looking at gdp growth at market exchange rate rankings , the overtaking process is slower , but still inexorable : the chinese economy would still be likely to be larger than that of the us before 2035 , and the e7 would overtake the g7 before 2040 . in addition , india would be clearly the third-largest economy in the world by 2050 , well ahead of japan and not too far behind the us . " in many ways this renewed dominance of china and india , with their much larger populations , is a return to the historical norm prior to the industrial revolution of the late 18th and 19th centuries that caused a shift in global economic power to western europe and the us ? this temporary shift in power is now going into reverse , " said one of the report 's authors , pricewaterhousecoopers  according to " the world in 2050 " , this changing world order poses both challenges and opportunities for businesses in the current advanced economies . " on the one hand , competition from emerging market multinationals will increase steadily over time and the latter will move up the value chain in manufacturing and some services , including financial services given the weakness of the western banking system after the crisis . " at the same time , the report predicts , rapid growth in consumer markets in the major emerging economies , associated with a fast-growing middle class , will provide new opportunities for western companies that can establish themselves in these markets . " these will be highly competitive , so this is not an easy option ? it requires long-term investment ? but without it western companies will increasingly be playing in the slow lane of history if they continue to focus on markets in north america and western europe . " sainfo reporter