AntiGravity Yoga a fun approach to fitness
http://www.timeslive.co.za/lifestyle/2011/03/29/antigravity-yoga-a-fun-approach-to-fitness

south africa added wicketkeeper quinton de kock and fast bowler chris morris to their squad for the second test against england , which starts in cape town on saturday , just minutes after being beaten in the first match in durban on wednesday .  french carmaker renault aims to complete its takeover of the lotus formula one team on dec. 16 and pay creditors , including britain 's tax authorities , by the end of the year , the high court heard on monday .  junior ep triathlete keegan cooke at just 18 years of age secured the 2015 about it triathlon summer series overall title after another outstanding performance among a star-studded field on saturday morning in port st francis in the eastern cape .  arts and culture minister nathi mthethwa on saturday paid tribute to the late legendary musician lehlara banza samson kgasoane ? saying his life 's work demonstrated an extraordinary ability to use his musical talents and gifts to enrich the lives of others .  dr michael mol and john berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday but that does n't mean dessert is off the menu . try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  floating through the air , said cutolo , has informed her own yoga practice .  " i 've gained a lot more balance in my handstand and in general . it 's also a way for me to crosstrain by using muscles i do n't normally use . "  jessica matthews , spokesperson for the american council of exercise , sees antigravity yoga differently .  " it is based first and foremost on love of acrobatics , fused with exercises and poses you see in yoga and pilates , " said matthews . " as a yoga instructor myself , it 's difficult for me to say it 's a yoga class . "  matthews said the class can build core strength and improve flexibility , and is enthusiastic about the rewards of being upside down .  " headstands , handstands , any inversion changes the way the blood flows through the body , " she said , adding that antigravity might be just what the yogi ordered  " having the support of a hammock is almost like having a safety net , " she said . " it 's a bit of comfort , knowing there 's some support . "  above all , matthews cautions that good instruction and safety are key .  " with anything suspended , safety is a big consideration because you 'd be falling from a height . "  on the plus side , there 's the fun of flying , even if it 's only a few feet above the ground .  " it 's a new way to approach exercise , to try something outside the norm , " she said . " everyone 's looking for that thing to spice up their workout routine . here you get to do a bit of acrobatics . "  cutolo , a yoga teacher by training , said antigravity yoga teachers can come from pilates , dance or gymnastic backgrounds , each colouring the workout with their specialty .  as dedicated yogi , she is candid about the difference between these classes and her yoga . . " yoga is a discipline . antigravity yoga is playtime. "