Metrorail to probe crash
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/gauteng/metrorail-to-probe-crash-1.1055468

Metrorail to probe crash  Metro rail is to appoint a board of inquiry into the cause of the train accident which left one person dead and 200 injured .  A train driver was killed when Train 95 , travelling from Mabopane to Pretoria , crashed into a stationary train , Train 96 , on the same line last Friday . The driver of Train 96 was apparently waiting for a signal change .  The impact destroyed Train 95 's locomotive and fatally injured the driver . It took fire fighters hours to free her body from the wreckage .  Metrorail 's spokeswoman , Lillian Mofokeng , said yesterday : " We are going to appoint a board of inquiry to investigate the cause of the accident . "  She said the terms of reference for the board have not yet been finalised , but expressed the hope that they would be today .  Meanwhile , commuters travelling between Mabopane and Pretoria have complained about the late arrival of trains .  The complaints come on the eve of a media briefing ) on commuter demands and short-term strategic interventions for Metrorail .  Some of the commuters at the Belle Ombre station complained yesterday that they were always late for work , and that in most instances , trains stopped at the Winternest train station in Pretoria North , " due to power failure " .  Mabopane resident Amos Sibeko said he travelled by train every day between the township and Belle Ombre station in Marabastad .  Sibeko said he left home at 4am for the 4:55am train , which at times did not arrive on time .  " The train is supposed to arrive at Belle Ombre station at 6am but this does not happen because it stops at Winternest station for no apparent reason , " said Sibeko .  He said they have previously complained to Metrorail about the problem but nothing has been done to resolve the issue . " They do n't listen to us , " said Sibeko .  Another commuter , who did not wish to be named , also complained about trains stopping at Winternest .  " Most of due to a power failure , " he said .  He also complained about the " terrible conditions " at the Belle Ombre station . " The station is dirty and some of the gates have been closed . This forces commuters to use alternative gates which are far from the platform , " he said .  Rantso Mongoe said that Metrorail had failed to sort out the problem . " We have spoken to them on several occasions , but they have not been able to respond , " he said . - Pretoria News