The signs of the times
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/what-s-on/the-signs-of-the-times-1.1055761

the signs of the times  many storms were raging at this year 's klein karoo national arts festival ( kknk ) , with the main point of discussion being the few festivalgoers on the streets of oudtshoorn , which are usually packed during this annual art jamboree .  according to kknk ceo brett pyper , they were expecting a drop in numbers because of the easter weekend much later in the month and usually a part of the festival .  but he was pleased about the redistribution of audiences who could be seen mainly at the crafts market and light music stages called rivierbuurt and in the theatres . the attendance numbers will be released only in a few weeks ' time , but he was confident that these would reflect his optimism .  while some of the shows did n't attract large crowds , others were sold out before the festival , which seemed to also comment on the state of the economy . people seemed to be much more circumspect about their choices .  theatre productions at art festivals often  in this instance , identity , violence and death were the three issues that emerged most strongly with die kortstondige raklewe van anastasia w and my naam/name is ellen pakkies most vociferous about violence ( see stories ) .  in more simplistic fashion , a group of scholars , part of an annual cape town acting competition , turned their story hel op hemel-en-aarde into a kind of thriller as they led their audience through a maze of clues while chasing the serial killer hansie mowers , who terrorised a community in the overberg a few years ago .  what turned this into a theatrical venture with punch was that it was set outside , with the production starting after dark . and the concluding scene put the audience in the centre of the terror as the killer faced down his final victim .  on a much more chilling note , hennie van greunen presented his adaptation of british playwright david kelly 's orphans . titled wees , it 's a universal story and plays in macabre fashion with the fears of so many people with the gruesome truth in this chamber of horror and one could hear a pin drop through the two-hour production as a young married couple 's dinner is interrupted by the wife 's brother , covered in blood .  as the story haltingly unfolds , the suspense builds as the couple are forced to confront their belief system while being drawn into a situation beyond their control .  they have to make moral choices that will change all their lives for ever and take a stand on where to side when family is involved . how far can you push those moral boundaries while making excuses for the horrific misdeeds of those close to you ?  it plays uncomfortably close to home and asks as much from the audience as van greunen does from the actors . he draws taut performances from his trio , especially andre weideman and gustav gerdener , while nicola hanekom still has to come to terms with the rhythms of her character .  hanekom did n't miss a beat in her second site-specific piece ( following last year 's award-winning betesda ) titled lot  a gatekeeper ( stian bam ) with keys dangling from his belt is surrounded by a spectacle of clocks as he marches up and down a fence that appears to be some kind of parameter . in short succession , a young woman who has a rafael nadal fetish , a young married couple still in their wedding attire and a pop star who is tripping much more than the light fantastic all arrive separately in screeching cars .  they are all wounded in some fashion and it soon becomes clear they have arrived at their final destination where they have to make certain decisions about their celestial future . no one is ready to go and the ensuing haggling about their next journey tells many individual stories .  having found her m ? tier of the moment , hanekom knows how to establish visual impact in all its many facets as she plays with not only light and darkness , but also uses the elements and senses to enhance everything she wants to say . from neels van jaarsveld 's sudden shock of bleached hair to the of the senses that overwhelms spectacularly .  marthinus basson 's interpretation of belgian playwright laurens de vos 's klaasvakie tackles ageing and hovering death in an intriguing way .  two old women cooped up in a retirement home confront their past lives , which are intertwined in some mysterious way . both play with the memories and minds of the other and one is never sure where reality ends and fantasy begins .  who is telling the truth and what exactly are we dealing with and when is either of the women toying with or torturing the other ?  in the mix , there 's also a menacing nurse who adds another twist to this spooky tale . veteran actress wilna snyman gives a glittering performance with antoinette kellermann and nicole holm in fine fettle .  identity was poignantly illuminated by dawn langdown and the northern cape namjive dancers in mense van mense . representing a specific group of people , she gallantly flung open her arms and embraced everyone . in a challenging world where politicians feel they can prescribe where people should live , the country had a very clear message .  in this instance they were dancing for people who had never seen their own make such strong statements on stage . it was an outside performance and they performed on a huge circle of sand , adding to the elements to further establish their identity -- intermingled with ours .  " who are you ? " they concluded as they reached out to the audience and brought full meaning to the title of their production -- people of people .  these are just a small representation of some of the best and the brightest at the festival , but there were many more exploring and examining these burning issues .  hopefully at least more than a handful will be travelling across the country to keep the conversation going .