Harrowing tale of drugs has lessons for all
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/what-s-on/harrowing-tale-of-drugs-has-lessons-for-all-1.1055766

harrowing tale of drugs has lessons for all  many might be familiar with the ellen pakkies story , but as it deals with one of the country 's most devastating problems , the addiction to tik ( crystal meth ) and all its catastrophic results , it is an extremely important story to tell .  pakkies and her husband live in lavender hill , one of cape town 's notorious drug suburbs . most families are either directly or indirectly affected by the abundance and availability of the drug and the devastating results as a community tries to battle addiction and the crime and violence that ensue .  pakkies , her husband and son lead a very quiet life . they do n't have money and life is a struggle , but they manage . then what seems almost like the inevitable happens , their young son succumbs to the peer pressure of the neighbourhood and falls victim to crystal meth .  his downward spiral is exposed in this tale of sorrow as a family is destroyed by the powerful addiction of what but it also cripples the family . it is n't that it only wreaks havoc financially , but emotionally .  ellen has to cope with a child who turns into a monster as his life becomes a nightmare existence of finding money for his habit .  his parents become the victims as they are his only source of income . in the final stages of his life , his parents only have the clothes they wear which they wash every night for the next day 's work . everything they own has been stolen and they live like prisoners in their home as he terrorises and attacks anyone who stands in his way .  the thing about the pakkies ' story is that we know the outcome . this is the story of a mother who kills her child and is finally given a suspended sentence which becomes a benchmark for similar cases in the future .  only at the court case do we learn pakkies herself is a victim of severe abuse and as her son turns on her and becomes yet another abuser in a rushing back .  lizz meiring is the playwright with vinette ebrahim and christo davids , the duelling mother and son . it is perfect casting , but the performances are still too brash with too much of the pain expressed in sheer volume . a heart-wrenching scene where ellen can not contain her pain and screams , grabbing a cushion in which she buries the scream is pushed over the edge when she starts banging on the cushion .  more of her earlier story could have also have been shared which would underline the horror of someone 's life being pushed to an edge where few will go beyond -- and yet she does .  my name is ellen pakkies is a harrowing story , but one that can not be told often enough .  l now my naam is/my name is ellen pakkies plays at the baxter golden arrow studio until may 7 , with a stopover at the cederberg arts festival on may 1 . book through computicket.