Illegal power lines a 'fire hazard'
http://www.iol.co.za/capeargus/illegal-power-lines-a-fire-hazard-1.1076288

Illegal power lines a ' fire hazard '  WITH the onset of winter rains , illegal electricity connections that hang precariously low above many city homes are being cited as a major fire hazard .  This was among the frustrations expressed by some residents of the Witsand informal settlement , after a fire ripped through the area yesterday morning , leaving one man dead and about 150 people homeless .  Resident Nolufefe Mbombo , 43 , said the combination of illegal connections and rainy weather was " very dangerous " .  " Once it rains then you hear the static , and with a lot of wind there 's friction , which cause fires . "  Standing amid the scorched remains of what was once people 's homes , Mbombo pointed at wires on the ground which might have snapped during the fire .  Rass said she had appealed to Eskom to provide the area with " legal " electricity .  " Tragedies like these can be avoided if we do n't have these illegal electricity connections . Water and explained that residents were desperate to generate more heat during the cold spell . But without a safer alternative , they would continue setting up illegal connections .  Eskom 's Western Cape spokeswoman , Jolene Henn , said that despite having invested millions of rands in campaigns to raise awareness about electricity and safety , the practice of " electricity tapping " still occurred .  " Communities are fully aware of the dangers in distributing electricity in the manner they do , but still continue with these unsafe acts . Eskom regularly removes illegal connections , but the perpetrators reconnect as soon as staff leave the area . "  Henn said Eskom would continue treating illegal connections as a " serious social issue " , and engage communities to curb the dangerous practice .  Witsand , she added , had been earmarked as part of Eskom 's electrification project .  The city 's Fire and Rescue spokesman , Theo Layne , said the cause of the Witsand fire was still being investigated .  He said that while it was difficult to determine how many homes it was definitely a huge problem .  Last year , the fire service recorded more than 1 000 shack fires , and since January this year 400 shack fires had already been reported .  Layne said the dangling wires were present in almost all informal settlements , posing a risk not only for residents , but also for firemen .  " Each time we respond to a call and have to drive between the overhead wires , we put ourselves and vehicles at risk . "  Two firefighters had been shocked by illegal wiring .  Due to the poor quality of wire being used , the connections proved " extremely dangerous " .  " This often leads to the wires overheating , short circuits and the insulation being ignited , which spreads rapidly . "