Jon Qwelane guilty of hate speech
http://mg.co.za/article/2011-05-31-jon-qwelane-guilty-of-hate-speech/

" we are quite pleased that the court has found in our favour ... r100 000 is quite a reasonable amount , " said sahrc spokesperson vincent moaga .  " the focus is not on the money , but the message coming out of this . with recent hate speech and crimes against the community , the court is sending positive messages , " he said .  the sahrc initiated court proceedings in terms of the promotion of equality and prevention of unfair discrimination act .  qwelane did not make much of an appearance in the course of the trial . he failed to sign court papers presented to him by a clerk and did not file responding papers .  the court ruled that , as it had only one version of the story , the sahrc 's argument would be accepted .  " from here , we will have to look at the judgment and make sure that qwelane abides by the court order , " moaga said .  in 2008 , the press ombudsman found the paper was "  ombudsman joe thloloe received nearly 1 000 complaints after the paper published the column , he said in a statement on july 29 2008 .  thloloe found that the thrust of the column was a call for a revision of the country 's constitution to take away the rights that gays and lesbians had won in the new south africa .  " this is the same type of debate as those on the death penalty and on proportional representation . debates about amendments to the constitution are protected under the freedom of speech clauses of the constitution . qwelane has the right to call for amendments . "  ' well within the law ' although qwelane expressed reservations about homosexuality and put down gays and lesbians , he did not advocate hatred or the harming of gays and lesbians .  " it is robust language , but not hate speech , " said thloloe .  he also did not equate homosexuality with bestiality .  " what he does say is that after allowing gay marriages it will not be long before we legalise bestiality them on different rungs on a ladder , with bestiality lower . by implication however he is placing heterosexuality higher . "  asked whether the column could lead to violence against gays and lesbians , thloloe responded : " to me it appears most unlikely . "  there was nothing in the column inciting hatred and calling for the harming of homosexuals .  " columnists are protected by the constitution for as long as their comments do n't propagate war , incite imminent violence and advocate hatred that constitutes incitement to cause harm .  " qwelane was well within the law but fell foul of the press code . "  qwelane is south africa 's ambassador to uganda . - sapa and staff reporter