Sars leaks 20 000 e-mail addresses
http://www.techcentral.co.za/sars-leaks-20-000-e-mail-addresses/25608/

Sars leaks 20 000 e-mail addresses  The SA Revenue Service ( Sars ) earlier this week inadvertently sent 20 000 taxpayers ' e-mail addresses to other taxpayers . The 20 000 addresses in question were the intended recipients of the Sars e-mail .  Realising the error , Sars sent a follow-up e-mail apologising to those affected and requesting that they " immediately delete that email and its attachment " .  It added that Sars takes " stringent measures to protect and safeguard the information of taxpayers , including their e-mail addresses " but that " these safeguards failed in this instance due to human error " .  Sars said it was conducting a " full investigation " into the incident and wished to assure those affected that it would take " strong action against those responsible " . It said and it would implement " additional measures to further protect taxpayer information " .  In the e-mail , Sars also sought to remind those affected that according to the legal restrictions applicable to its e-mail communication no one may further distribute correspondence take the strongest legal action against anyone found to have saved , used or distributed the list of e-mail addresses " .  Mark Kingon , group executive at Sars , says the organisation wants to reiterate that human error was to blame for the erroneous inclusion of taxpayers ' e-mail addresses and that it views the incident " in a very serious light " .  He says Sars has suspended some members of staff as a result of the incident and that its investigation is continuing .  Sars sends high volumes of e-mail and that in this particular incident e-mails were being sent to over 150 000 employers to notify them of changes relating to Sars Easyfile service , Kingon says .  In an effort to avoid incidents like this one , Sars sends e-mails in batches of 20 000 rather than sending them all at once , so that if there is an error it can be corrected before going to the entire database .  " It 's an offence to disseminate or otherwise use those addresses and we will take all available punitive measures Kingon. -- Craig Wilson , TechCentral  Why TechCentral ?  We know that as a prospective advertiser , you are spoilt for choice . Our job is to demonstrate why TechCentral delivers the best return for your advertising spend .  TechCentral is South Africa 's online technology news leader . We do n't say that lightly . We believe we produce the country 's best and most insightful online tech news aimed at industry professionals and those interested in the fast-changing world of technology .  We provide news , reviews and comment , without fear or favour , that is of direct relevance to our fast-expanding audience . Proportionately , we provide the largest local audience of all technology-focused online publishers .  We do not constantly regurgitate press releases to draw in search engine traffic -- we believe websites that do so are doing their readers and advertisers a disservice . Nor do we sell " editorial features " , offer advertising " press offices " or rely on online bulletin-board forums of questionable value to advertisers to bolster our traffic .  TechCentral , which is about delivering top-quality content to draw in the business and consumer readers that are of most interest to technology advertisers .  We 'd like the opportunity to demonstrate the value of directing a portion of your advertising budget to TechCentral , whether your company is in the technology field or not . Numerous opportunities exist for companies interested in reaching our audience of key decision-makers in South Africa 's dynamic information and communications technology sector . We offer packages that will deliver among the best returns on investment available in the online technology news space .  For more information about advertising opportunities , and how your organisation can benefit by publicising itself on TechCentral , please call us on 011-792-0449 during office hours . Or send us an e-mail and ask for our latest rate card and brochure .