Madiba museums booming in SA
http://www.timeslive.co.za/lifestyle/2011/08/31/madiba-museums-booming-in-sa

french carmaker renault aims to complete its takeover of the lotus formula one team on dec. 16 and pay creditors , including britain 's tax authorities , by the end of the year , the high court heard on monday .  junior ep triathlete keegan cooke at just 18 years of age secured the 2015 about it triathlon summer series overall title after another outstanding performance among a star-studded field on saturday morning in port st francis in the eastern cape .  arts and culture minister nathi mthethwa on saturday paid tribute to the late legendary musician lehlara banza samson kgasoane ? saying his life 's work demonstrated an extraordinary ability to use his musical talents and gifts to enrich the lives of others .  dr michael mol and john berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye on healthier meals , but that does n't mean dessert is off the menu . try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  nelson mandela covered most of south africa during five decades fighting apartheid and five years as president he set foot .  save &amp; share  the 93-year-old nobel peace prize winner is among the world 's most famous living icons , and re-tracing his steps is one of the country 's major tourism draws .  in johannesburg alone , visitors can spend several days following the trail of " madiba " -- the clan name by which mandela is affectionately known .  " the most wanted attractions are linked to nelson mandela , " said laura vercueil , spokeswoman for the johannesburg tourism office .  " the most popular request is to go to soweto , in order to have a township experience and see mandela 's house . "  mandela lived in the tiny house in the black township on johannesburg 's outskirts from 1946 until 1962 -- the year his nearly three-decade imprisonment under the apartheid regime began -- and again for 11 days after his release in 1990 .  his ex-wife winnie turned the house into a museum in 1997 , and the tiny space -- totally refurbished in 2009 -- is routinely packed with visitors .  some dedicated to mandela .  " initially , it was a temporary exhibition that we had produced to mark his 90th birthday in 2008 . but it is not to come down in the foreseeable future , because it is so popular , " said curator amelia potenza .  " it 's magnetic . people are drawn to the figure of mandela . "  the museum says 20% of visitors are foreigners , and 60% school children .  " mandela is the one who helped all of us to be where we are . here we can make the children learn where they come from actually , and who brought them freedom , " said mamokete anna kibane , a teacher visiting with students from a nearby township .  the list of mandela tourist stops in johannesburg also includes the room he rented in alexandra township , the building where he had his law offices in the 1950s -- newly-restored and soon to open as a museum , the farm where he hid before his arrest in 1962 and the prison cell in the fort where he at his current house , in the leafy northern suburb of houghton .  " it 's like it used to be in the ussr . there used to be lenin museums everywhere , " joked american tourist john brown .  outside joburg , the mandela museum in mthatha , near where he grew up , is closing soon for renovations -- but an exhibition in neighbouring qunu , where mandela was born , will greet visitors to his native transkei ( today part of eastern cape province ) .  the ruins of the primary school mandela attended in qunu are also being cleared from the bush . they will be decorated with six wooden poles spelling out ' nelson ' .  in cape town , the jail on robben island where mandela spent 18 of his 27 years in prison has been declared a world heritage site . visitors cram the narrow hallway to get a look into the tiny cell where prisoner 46-664 was held .  nearby , on the mainland , a 3.2m statue of mandela with raised fist stands imposingly outside the groot spent his final days in jail .  another museum is planned for the spot he was arrested on august 5 1962 , near the eastern port city of durban .  " there is an over-emphasis on mandela because he is a world icon . there are very few world icons who represent the triumph of goodness over evil . we need that , " said the apartheid museum 's potenza .  " of course , it is a cult of personality . it 's all about a single man . but it is understandable : mandela is synonymous with the struggle against apartheid . he has not disappointed us . he could have . "  as for mandela himself , he once said : " it is not at all correct to elevate any human being to the position of a god . "  " he should not be the only one whose legacy is praised , " said sello hatang , spokesman for mandela 's charitable foundation .