Libya's new rulers unveil two new mass graves
http://www.timeslive.co.za/africa/2011/10/06/libya-s-new-rulers-unveil-two-new-mass-graves

flanked by shaggy-haired gunmen , commander ghulam farooq peered out from a hilltop at the biggest military prize of his storied career as a warlord - a mud-walled afghan village captured after five years of taliban control .  french carmaker renault aims to complete its takeover of the lotus formula one team on dec. 16 and pay creditors , including britain 's tax authorities , by the end of the year , the high court heard on monday .  junior ep triathlete keegan cooke at just 18 years of age secured the 2015 about it triathlon summer series overall title after another outstanding performance among a star-studded field on saturday morning in port st francis in the eastern cape .  arts and culture minister nathi mthethwa on saturday paid tribute to the late legendary musician lehlara banza samson kgasoane ? saying his life 's work demonstrated an extraordinary ability to use his musical talents and gifts to enrich the lives of others .  dr michael mol and john berry 's new cookbook is aimed at the everyday family cook who has their eye is off the menu . try their recipe for chocolate tartlets  libya 's new rulers unveiled two mass graves on wednesday , a week after they were forced to backtrack on an earlier find of what they said was the burial site of hundreds of prisoners executed in 1996 .  save &amp; share  " witness testimony has allowed us to uncover two mass graves of victims of the old regime , " tripoli security chief naji al-issawi told a news conference in the libyan capital .  a mass grave at gargaresh , on the coast some seven kilometres ( four miles ) from the centre of tripoli , contained an estimated 200 bodies , he said .  a second in birasta milad , a rural area 10 kilometres ( six miles ) from the city centre contained an estimated 700 , he added .  issawi did not elaborate on how those buried in the graves were believed to have died but , judging by the lack of decomposition , those bodies seen by afp had not died long ago .  a pathologist told journalists the bodies had bullet wounds and around 20 had fractured skulls .  on september 25 , libya 's new rulers said they had unearthed a mass grave of 1,700 prisoners slain by muammar gaddafi 's regime in a 1996 uprising , a massacre that helped trigger the revolt that ousted the despot .  but two days later , they acknowledged they were not certain about the find after reports emerged that some of the remains appeared to be of animals .