US Cellular Gets Two New Android Phones: The HTC Merge And ...
http://www.androidpolice.com/2011/05/31/us-cellular-gets-two-new-android-phones-the-htc-merge-and-lg-genesis/

It looks like US Cellular 's Android family is going to grow a bit over the next couple of weeks , as two new phones will be hitting the shelves : the HTC Merge and LG Genesis .  Even as a mid-range device , the HTC Merge is one that needs little introduction , as it has seen the spotlight on more than one occasion . Nevertheless , here are the specs of this lil beauty :  3.8 inch 480x800 Super LCD display  800MHz processor  Global Ready  512MB RAM  5MP rear camera with 720p video capture  2GB built-in storage  8GB SD Card  Physical QWERTY  Android 2.2  The LG Genesis is a dual-screened , full keyboard sporting flipper that just so happens to be a US Cellular Exclusive . Check the specs :  3.5 inch 480x800 display  1GHz Snapdragon processor  430MB built-in storage ( ouch )  5MP rear camera  Physical QWERTY  Android 2.2  While neither of these devices are going to break any speed barriers , they 're not too of the serious lack of storage space in the Genesis . What was LG thinking ? ) .  The Merge is available for purchase now , while the Genesis wo n't be hitting the streets until June 9 . Both devices will set you back $150 after a $100 mail in rebate ( with a two-year agreement , of course ) .  CHICAGO ( May 31 , 2011 ) -- U.S. Cellular ( NYSE : USM ) is expanding its device portfolio with two more Android-powered smartphones that are packed with cool features and access to countless apps . Starting today , the HTC Merge is available for $149.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate , and the LG Genesis will debut June 9 at the same rate .  " Customers who switch to U.S. Cellular join the happiest customers in wireless and can get easy-to-use devices that can be personalized to fit their busy schedules , " said Edward Perez , vice president of sales and marketing operations for U.S. Cellular . " Whether it 's managing your calendar , keeping track of family activities or staying in your life easier . "  The HTC Merge is U.S. Cellular 's first Android-powered Global Ready smartphone . So , if you 're traveling abroad this summer , you can stay in touch with friends and family no matter the continent or time zone by using a required SIM card and service for the country you 're visiting . The HTC Merge also has a keyboard that can be switched to 18 different languages and offers users the freedom to check Facebook , tweet , text , browse the web and access e-mails anytime using the 3.8-inch touch screen or the slide out QWERTY keyboard . Other handy features include a 5.0 megapixel camera , GPS , 720p video recorder , Adobe Flash 10.1 and a customizable quick key that lets you program your favorite function whether it 's an app , web site , media player or contact .  Exclusive to U.S. Cellular , the LG Genesis features a sleek flip design with two touch screens that allow users to view social network updates and stay up-to-speed with texts and e-mails . Input lightning fast messaging on the QWERTY keyboard or text hands free using voice . The internal 3.2-inch touch screen is paired with a wide , slide out keyboard that also makes typing quick and easy . A built-in 5.0 megapixel camera and 32 GB of storage makes snapping and sharing pictures of family and friends in high or low light a breeze with auto focus and zoom functions .  The HTC Merge and the LG Genesis are equipped with the Froyo 2.2 Android platform , and the Android Market ? has more than 200,000 apps awaiting download by users . Both smartphones are also Wi-Fi ? hotspot capable and come with 8GB memory cards .  Several of U.S. Cellular 's value-packed national plans are a perfect fit for smartphone users . The $79.99 Primary Plus Plan is the best value in wireless and offers 5GB of data with unlimited text , picture and video messaging . The plan also comes with 450 voice minutes , free incoming calls , free nights and weekends and free mobile-to-mobile calls .  A family of four who switches to U.S. Cellular and joins the happiest customers in company 's Premium Plus family plan . The whole family can get the latest Android-powered smartphones to download apps and keep up with friends , the latest news and favorite social networks .  U.S. Cellular has the highest call quality and network satisfaction of any national carrier , and all devices are backed by the carrier 's high-speed nationwide network . Customers also get unique benefits , like new phones faster without continuously signing contracts . For more information about all of U.S. Cellular 's deals , plans and phones , and other restrictions on these offers , visit any U.S. Cellular store , go touscellular.com or check out U.S. Cellular on Facebook .  The HTC Merge is available for $149.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate , and the LG Genesis is $149.99 after a $100 mail-in rebate . Purchase of a data plan is required , and a new two-year agreement and activation fee may apply .