City police find pounds of marijuana, thousands of dollars
http://thetimes-tribune.com/news/city-police-find-pounds-of-marijuana-thousands-of-dollars-1.2070728

digital only subscription read the digital smart edition of the times-tribune on your pc or mobile device , and have 24/7 access to breaking news , local sports , contests , and more at thetimes-tribune.com or on our mobile apps .  and what rough beast , its hour come round at last , crouches in cleveland cheering political porn ? " -- with apologies to william butler yeats ( 1865-1939 ) a bloodthirsty mob begs permission to burn a woman condemned as a witch . asked how they know she 's a wi ( read more )  kimberly pasko held a homemade sign with the words " peace and love " inscribed in multicolor paint at spruce street and north washington avenue in downtown scranton on saturday . " there is never enough kindness in this world , " said ms. pasko , 37 , of dalton , ( read more )  brian cobb stands in front of a stone wall built into the side of a hill along riverside drive on a warm summer morning and swings open a door built into the inside , the temperature drops and history comes alive . ( read more )  moosic -- for rick cote , severe allergies to canine fur meant he and his family could never have a furry friend for a pet . not until they found shaggy , a hairless chinese crested dog presented to the cote family saturday by the bald is beautiful hairless a ( read more )  mandy antoniacci has been hitting it out of the park since her days as a record-setting softball player for the university of scranton , where she retired with a .486 batting average , 16 home runs and 63 rbis . now , the moosic native and riverside junior-se ( read more )  local democrats traveled to chicago in august 1968 to pick a presidential candidate . before they could , though , they and the other democratic national convention delegates had to contend with an unruly crowd of protesters stirring up trouble in the windy ( read more )  article tools  police responding to a parking complaint in scranton led to the discovery of marijuana and cash at police find drugs , cash at city home  scranton -- a parking complaint led to the discovery of pounds of marijuana and thousands of dollars monday afternoon .  police received a tip about a parking issue in front of 331 fifth ave . on their website monday . when officers arrived at about 11:45 a.m. , they noticed a strong smell of marijuana , police sgt. michael perry said .  the special investigations division searched the residence and arrested the man living there , 51-year-old paul noone , after they found about 2 ? pounds of marijuana and $14,000 in the house , sgt. perry said .  mr. noone was charged with possession with intent to deliver a controlled substance and related offenses . bail and preliminary hearing information were not available .  -- clayton over  we welcome user discussion on our site , under the following guidelines :  to comment you must first create a profile and sign-in with a verified disqus account or social network id . sign up here .  comments in violation of the rules will be denied , the community by flagging offensive comments for our moderators to review . by posting a comment , you agree to our full terms and conditions . click here to read terms and conditions .