Round of applause
http://www.valdostadailytimes.com/opinion/editorials/round-of-applause/article_892afb20-9d04-5db9-b8c1-d97f47c6b756.html

top story  with less than 48 hours until monday 's nonwaiver trade deadline , the padres and braves are nearing a deal that would send outfielder matt kemp to atlanta for infielder-outfielder hector olivera , sources familiar with the discussions said saturday .  round of applause  14 hrs ago  here are some of the people and organizations doing great things in our community .  the valdosta state golf team garnered a golf coaches association of america academic team award . eligibility for the gcaa all-academic team honor requires a team grade point average of 3.0 or higher , and the blazers easily fit the bill with a 3.28 collective gpa during the course of the 2015-16 season . the squad 's academic performance in the spring semester of 2016 highlighted the year , as the group teamed up to compile a 3.36 gpa with 4.0 efforts from colton godwin , davis roche and olav zandveld .  the second harvest of south georgia 's teachers ' harvest benefited nearly 2,000 public school teachers across south georgia . teachers from any of the event that gives away free school supplies . jamie whigham , a teacher at cross creek elementary in thomas county , said she traveled to the valdosta warehouse monday morning to help ensure her students succeed . " it really helps out a lot , " she said . " we have a lot of low-income families in our system . it helps to provide so parents do n't have to spend as much money . " all of the supplies were donated either directly or were purchased with monetary donations from businesses and individuals in the community , said eliza mccall , chief marketing officer for second harvest . mccall said the free school supply store helps provide some things teachers would have likely paid for out of their own pocket .  story continues below video  the unity in action community outreach team announced it will host a back to school supply giveaway aug. 6 . its goal is to seek opportunities in the community with a positive difference and provide assistance , whether through services , supplies or education , according to the team . as a backpacks stuffed with back-to-school supplies will be given to the first 150 k-12 students to attend its giveaway . the event will begin at 11 a.m at 601 n. lee st. and will last until 1 p.m . free hot dogs , chips and drinks will be available . last year 's event proved to be a success with all of the backpacks given away before the official end time , organizers said . for more information about the event or to donate , contact katherine donaldson at ( 229 ) 474-9574 or velma wade at ( 229 ) 834-0308 .  the citizens against violence unveiled its headquarters in ora lee west with a ribbon-cutting ceremony recently . the office wo n't officially open until aug. 8 . it will be open from 10 a.m. -noon mondays through fridays and will offer counseling services , a job bank referral , youth programs and community policing for free . evening appointments can be made with the group , according to organizers . valdosta police chief brian childress said locating the headquarters in ora lee west was a strategic decision since analysis lot of folks have asked why here ? " he said . " this is a safe place , but some people are committed to getting the number down lower . this is a place for an officer to work out of at the housing authority . it 's a place for us to yet again find a way to connect to the community . " the rev. j.d. martin spearheaded the project , as the leader of citizens against violence . " i am so excited , " he said . " this community center is one of the first things we need to do to make our community better and do a better job in the community . this is the community 's building . it 's not about me . it 's about the community and we want them to feel a part of it . "  social  the valdosta daily times invites artists to participate in a public art project by painting a point of purchase newspaper rack with a design of their own creation . interested ? submit an application and a mockup of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @