Scott: A career of building coalitions
http://timesargus.com/article/20160731/NEWS01/160739913

phil scott likes to tell people how , about 20 years ago now , he did not have a political bone in his body . he grew up in barre and spent his adult life building a family , a career as a contractor , and a reputation as a race car driver . he takes great pride in his blue-collar roots .  but when he started to see politics miring the legislature , he decided to step up .  that trajectory ? serving in the senate and then as lieutenant governor ? has forced him to become the leader he felt vermont needed then ? and now .  on aug. 9 , he appears on the republican ballot with primary challenger bruce lisman to be the state ? s next governor .  ? i certainly have lived a different life than many , ? scott , who turns 57 this week , said during an interview at the times argus offices last week .  he pointed to working 30-plus years as a small-business owner , spending many sleepless nights worrying about has forced me to have a frugal , common-sense approach , ? scott said .  the republican , known for his moderate views that closely mirror the demeanor and policies of former governor james douglas , has always served in the minority in montpelier .  ? i have been slugging it out in the trenches . ? but i have known i wanted to be part of the solution , ? he said . scott said he has done that by reaching out to democrats , independents and progressives at the state house when it came to building coalitions . he said he has always made a point of listening to others , because ? no one person ever has all the ideas. ?  ? i ? ve been able to build consensus . i have the respect and trust of others . and i think you lead by example , ? he said , adding that he is glad he can say he is a safe-and-steady politician . ? i think people appreciate my independence , my follow-through . ? i am not one to over-promise. ? difficult fiscal and infrastructure challenges ?  ? i want to provide for a much more affordable vermont , ? he said . ? i believe a more vibrant economy will lift all boats ? taxes will go down . we will provide more resources for all of those who need services . ? ( being governor ) has not always been an aspiration , but i believe it is a calling today. ?  scott maintains the state is having an ? affordability crisis ? that is affecting many public policy sectors , as well as the economy .  ? expectations are far outweighing our ability to pay , ? he explained . ? we are having a crisis of affordability right here in vermont. ?  he said it would be imperative to look at the state ? s economy over the previous year and examine what has grown ; then , set a cap that corresponds to that growth before building the budget . from there , scott said , he would go through a prioritization process that looked at both the budget , cuts and savings and in their businesses they expect the state to do the same , ? he said . ? it ? s not easy . but we can live within our means , and send that message to vermonters . ? it will go a long way toward our recovery. ?  scott says he would form a committee to look at ways to modernize and make efficient the various departments of state government . ? we should always look for ways to save money . there are ample ways to look for savings. ?  scott looks upon gov . peter shumlin ? s administration as having taken too many risks at the expense of vermonters , especially when it came to vermont health connect . critics of the democratic governor characterized many of his initiatives as ? experiments. ?  scott is less condemning in his rhetoric and criticism of shumlin but does point to what he sees as an overarching problem that the next governor will certainly face .  ? we need to restore the faith and trust in government across the board , ? scott said . he insists that has to happen through coalition-building , partnerships , thinking outside the box , and taking measured , tactful steps forward .  ? vermonters deserve that right now , ? he said .  ? we often get caught up sometimes in adding and plugging all of the holes . we need to be more efficient . ... i am confident there are ample opportunities to do things differently . it comes down to ways in which we are treating our businesses , entities and citizens fairly. ?  while scott has not rolled out specific plans for improving the economy , changing the state ? s demographic ? especially bolstering the age group between 25 and 35 ? and for transportation and other sectors , his stances on many issues on vermonters ? minds are clear .  first and foremost , scott says , vermont has to get its economy on track . he says that hinges on attracting and retaining families and businesses .  ? we need to be a magnet , ? he said , whether that is keeping students who attend colleges breaks for businesses who want to be here . ? we provide many opportunities for people to come to us , ? he said . ? but we need to keep ( that core ) here , contributing , paying taxes. ?  he said an exodus of the workforce between the ages of 25 and 35 has really hurt the state .  in the end , he said , it requires a ? culture change. ?  ? it ? s become stagnant . ... if they are not in the system , not part of the community , the burden is on the rest of us still standing . we need a climate that is conducive to growth , and make vermont affordable. ?  he has been quoted as saying vermont needs to increase its population by about 70,000 to 700,000 .  ? we need to revitalize , become a magnet , ? he said . ? there are so many things we have to offer , but we have to market it in a different way. ?  after the economy , scott said one epidemic .  ? we have seen this rising addiction issue rising in other states , as well , ? he said , pointing to how the problem is not unique to vermont . ? it has affected each and every one of us. ?  scott said it has become far too easy to become addicted , in part because he said doctors are over-prescribing certain drugs .  the answer , he said , lies in a balance of prevention , treatment and enforcement .  in turn , scott said vermont needs to re-evaluate how it serves the mentally ill and the pressures that parity issues place on other health-related needs across the spectrum of treatment .  he said while act 46 was not ? something i would have crafted , it has been a great way to start the conversation ? across vermont when it comes to school consolidation .  ? i have been listening to vermonters screaming for property tax relief for years , ? he said , adding that while he would not ? like his opponent , bruce lisman ? call for  ? i would support school choice , ? he said , as well as making sure those communities that do want to consolidate are provided with proper incentives . ? we need more carrots than sticks , ? he said . in the end , however , vermont is educating 20,000 fewer students than 10 years ago and spending $1.6 billion to do so . ? inaction is not the answer . ? it is necessary to get a handle on the cost of education , ? scott said .  while he is not a supporter of industrial wind , he is a proponent of solar and renewables . in particular , he said as governor he would open new partnerships with canada to tap into hydro-electric resources there that would ? meet our needs just fine. ?  he is not in favor of a carbon tax . ? it raises the cost of living throughout . i am looking for make vermont more affordable , ? he said .  and when it comes to health care reform , scott has been critical of vermont health connect saw proof it worked , he would not get behind the governor ? s plan . scott stood by that claim .  ? i would pull the plug on vermont health connect , ? he said , adding that he would opt to switch to the federal exchange but carry over pieces and parts of the system that might be working . scott said he would look to other states , like hawaii , maryland , oregon and connecticut , that have cobbled together a health care exchange for far less than what vermont is spending .  he called vermont health connect a ? failed , ill-conceived it structure. ?  ? i think there are ways out there that can work for us , too , ? he said .  does vermont need more restrictions on gun purchases ? ? no , we just need to enforce the laws we have on the books . ? it ? s not a problem here in vermont . in fact , it ? s a bit of a distraction. ? scott said while terror threats are real , the ? we need to get to the root of the problem , ? which he described as the people who are misusing guns ? some of them mentally ill ? and getting them the help and services they need .  when asked what he thought of the tenor of the campaign so far , scott , the presumptive front-runner according to polls , said he is ? not at all surprised . it is exactly how i envisioned it. ?  he said the primary challenge has made him a better candidate .  of lisman , he said , ? i am disappointed in my opponent , his tone . ( i feel he is ) misrepresenting the truth , and i don ? t have a lot of patience for that . it ? s concerning. ?