State suspends medical license of former South Bend abortion doctor
http://www.southbendtribune.com/news/local/state-suspends-medical-license-of-former-south-bend-abortion-doctor/article_13cf1480-6b85-11e6-b0f7-6b2daa9decdd.html

state suspends medical license of former south bend abortion doctor  indianapolis - the indiana medical licensing board early today took the medical license of a former south bend abortion doctor for failing to exercise reasonable care and violating several notice and documentation requirements .  but it was a story that klopfer told himself that struck a nerve with members of the board .  he spoke of a 10-year-old girl raped by her uncle who he performed an abortion on in an illinois hospital but did n't notify police about the child abuse . instead , he let her go home with her parents , who knew of the rape and refused to prosecute .  it was n't part of the complaint filed by the indiana attorney general 's office but appeared to shift the case , with several members of the board bringing it up during final discussion .  board member rebecca moredock-mueller described klopfer as having a nonchalant attitude and lacked sound medical judgment .  " the thing that bothered me most was his professional incompetence , " she said most prolific abortion doctor in history with numbers going into the tens of thousands of procedures in multiple counties over several decades .  testimony during thursday 's hearing - which ended this morning - showed a man who was essentially using the same abortion and sedation procedures from the 1970s and 1980s .  klopfer told the panel he has never lost a patient in 43 years of doing abortions and has never even had a patient go into cardiac arrest .  " women get pregnant , men do n't . we need to respect women making a decision that they think is best in their life , " he said . " i 'm not here to dictate to anybody . i 'm not here to judge anybody . "  the board specifically was bothered that he did n't give pain medication to all women - only those under 16 and those who could pay extra . and when he did sedate women he did n't have qualified staff to monitor them and did n't follow best practices for administration of the drugs and emergency procedures . board members called amazing and lucky .  klopfer can petition for reinstatement in six months - but only after he completes a laundry list of evaluations , continuing medical education credits and child abuse training . he also was fined $3,000 .  the board found him guilty of five of nine charges . one of the charges related to not reporting performing an abortion on two girls under the age of 14 within the three-day required timeline . two referenced sedation and medical practices ; two others were whether he followed state law requiring informed consent 18 hours before the procedure on a handful of women .  " justice has been done , " said cathie humbarger , executive director at allen county right to life . " we 're glad that he 's been held accountable for the inferior medical treatment that he has been responsible for over many , many years . "  indiana right to life was instrumental in the procedure after analyzing thousands of terminated pregnancy reports and other required documentation .  kiopfer has performed abortions in fort wayne , gary and all three of his abortion clinics have closed but he told the panel he wants to reopen when he can .  mary watts - klopfer 's attorney - said the case is about forms and not about the standard of care patients received .  " he provided good medical care for his patients and did his best to follow the law , " she said . " it 's a question of documentation . "  she said anytime deficiencies were found he corrected the procedure .  klopfer and watts declined to speak at the conclusion of the hearing .  klopfer began performing abortions in 1973 following the legalization of abortion by roe v. wade .  he had been affiliated with the fort wayne women 's health organization since 1986 and became the owner in 2008 . klopfer stopped performing abortions in fort wayne in january 2014 when he lost a backup physician required to meet the county 's admitting privileges law .  the last of his clinics closed in november 2015 .  some of the hearing was spent on surveys by the indiana surveyor linda plummer did four inspections of the fort wayne office and described it as rundown , not well-maintained and older . some examples of deficiencies included equipment not being properly maintained ; expired medications in an emergency drug kit ; lack of infection control practices ; no log of cleaning procedure rooms and incomplete personnel policies .  plummer also said klopfer was blunt and abrupt , and described staff as having a " laissez faire " attitude .