Seen At 11: Tired Of Doing Your Chores? New Technology Can Help
http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2016/09/07/chore-technology/

seen at 11 : tired of doing your chores ? new technology can help  but now , there 's a robot that can carry out just about any of your most frustrating household tasks , cbs2 's alex denis reported .  making the bed , cleaning the gutters , folding the laundry -- they 're just some of the daily chores people are met with regularly .  " my wife does n't approve of my folding qualities , " gal rozov said .  household chores seemingly never end . however , foldimate robotic laundry folding machine can fold up to 20 items in less than a minute .  rozov , a father of three , is the inventor behind the creation .  " imagine having a friend that loves to fold laundry and -- he , foldimate , comes over every day and says , ' hand me the items and i 'll fold for you , ' " he said .  household robots are not that hard to imagine , especially if you 're a fan of the " be as advanced as rosie yet , tim moynihan with wired magazine says these high-tech helpers are a growing field that all started with the robotic vacuum known as the roomba .  " i think about 10 million of them are in homes right now so that kind of gives a good indication that people are comfortable with this kind of thing , " moynihan said .  now , the makers of the roomba are unveiling several new products including a robotic mop ...  ... a window washing robot ...  ... and a robot that will clean your gutters .  " the looj cleans gutters faster than traditional methods , " moynihan said . " it 's supposed to make it safer so you do n't have to go up and down a ladder . "  moynihan 's magazine tested some of the new gadgets , including a robotic lawnmower by power tool maker husqvarna .  there 's also robo buddy , the first social robot that the makers say connects , protects , and interacts with each member of your family .  , you can take robo buddy , drive it over to your stove and check , " jason hopper of robo buddy said . " it 's just about making somebody 's life a little bit happier , a little bit easier . "