Think you know the full story of 'Sully'? Clint Eastwood says you don't.
http://www.charlotteobserver.com/entertainment/ent-columns-blogs/lawrence-toppman/article100548082.html

a skilled director can make a tense story come to life onscreen . but an unusually good director can make us feel anxious while watching a story we expected to have no drama at all , and clint eastwood does that in the low-key , beautifully assembled " sully . "  u.s. airways pilot chesley sullenberger , now known to the country as sully , was flying an airbus from laguardia to charlotte in january 2009 . a flock of geese blasted toward the plane , disabling two engines , and he landed on the hudson river , getting all 155 people aboard home alive .  warner bros. bills this biopic as " the untold story behind the miracle on the hudson , " but they use the wrong preposition . it 's the untold story after the event , when the national transportation safety board questioned sullenberger 's judgment and threatened to retire him without a pension if the crash could have been averted .  or so it goes in todd komarnicki 's script . he adapted " highest duty , " the so he takes an unadulteratedly favorable view of the protagonist . though sully second-guesses his decision once in a while and has bad dreams , someone -- a bartender , his co-pilot ( aaron eckhart ) , even his wife ( laura linney ) -- is always on hand to remind him he 's a hero .  this may sound corny , yet it 's not . eastwood tells the story cleverly and efficiently ; he weaves in and out of the trial , changing points of view constantly . he first gives us the crash from the air traffic controllers ' side and then , much later , from the cockpit .  hanks maintains a calm demeanor that conceals a racing pulse and troubled mind . we have seen him do this cool-under-fire thing many times , from " saving private ryan " to " captain phillips , " yet he varies these characters subtly . ( folks with long memories will recall that he played another sully 14 years ago : the hit man in " road to perdition . " )  eastwood promoted his longtime murray cut crash sequences that make you wonder how the film crew pulled them off . cinematographer tom stern , who has shot eastwood 's last 13 features , knows what the boss wants : a subtle color palette that distinguishes between the institutional glare of examination rooms and the pale skies of a january day over new york .  despite its brief running time , the film feels stretched out once or twice , especially when sully phones his wife . we never see them together ; she 's there to remind us what 's at stake if the ntsb finds him culpable , and the character becomes disposable .  on the other hand , the coda that shows the real chesley and lorraine sullenberger visiting the carolinas aviation museum belongs in the picture . it shows us both how closely hanks impersonated him in looks and demeanor and reminds us what an ordinary guy sully was , except for that extraordinary four minutes of cool-headed valor .  charlotteans may recognize actor rob trevelier as a control tower supervisor , and i heard audience members chuckle when frisco 's double eagle steak house on piedmont row .  the real charlotte-bound passengers show up in the reunion at the aviation museum , and almost all have southern accents -- though nobody on the fictional plane does . maybe the californians making this picture did n't notice .