Sheriff Express Concern About The Decriminalization Of Marijuana
http://foxillinois.com/news/local/sheriff-express-concern-about-the-decriminalization-of-marijuana-09-08-2016

One local sheriff is expressing concern about the decriminalization of marijuana .  Anyone caught in Christian County with up to ten grams of marijuana faces a $100 to $200 fine and no jail time .  Christian County Sheriff Bruce Kettelkamp says this is sending a wrong message to young kids .  Sheriff Kettelkamp says this is sending a wrong message to young kids .  " The decriminalization of cannabis is going to have an effect on our youth , " said Sheriff Kettelkamp .  Sheriff Kettelkamp says this is leading to kids getting more involved in drinking and smoking marijuana .  " When they get out into these parties and they drink they have marijuana ... we are seeing an increase in use of alcohol and cannabis with the young crowd here and it 's getting younger and younger unfortunately , " he added .  Kettlekamp says deputies have seen its effect on kids in seventh and eighth grades .  " What worries me is the junior high kids . I think we are going to see an increase high kids and I think it 's very important for parents to be aware of this , " said Sheriff Kettelkamp .  Dan Linn who supports the decriminalization of marijuana says giving teenagers an arrest record at an early age will only hurt them when they 're older .  " The idea of giving young people an arrest record to follow them for the rest of their life is not what we want to be doing . We want to make these teenagers see possibly they are making wrong choices in their life and be able to move on from them and not saddle them with an arrest record that 's going to prevent them from getting a job or housing in the future , " said Illinois National Organization to Reform Marijuana Laws Executive Director Dan Linn .  Sheriff Kettelkamp says his office is working on trying to set up a town hall to discuss what parents should look out for in their kids .  The Jacksonville Police chief says they are dealing with a similar situation .  He says they 've set up a Center .