US Forest Service and Coca-Cola Announce the Restoration of One ...
http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?contentid=2016/09/0194.xml&amp;contentidonly=true

news release  u.s. forest service and coca-cola announce the restoration of one billion liters of water  washington , sept. 13 , 2016 -- agriculture secretary tom vilsack and coca-cola north america president sandy douglas today announced that their partnership to restore and protect damaged watersheds on national forests achieved a milestone of one billion liters of water restored , and that the partnership will commit to double that outcome through 2018 . the 13 restoration areas are located on national forest land , which provides drinking water to more than 60 million americans , and they ensure future generations will have access to fresh water .  " this milestone that coca-cola , usda and our partners have reached is just the latest example of how partnerships between the public and private sectors can reach more people , harness more innovation , and do more good than either government or businesses can achieve alone , " said vilsack . " america 's 193 million acres of public forests and grasslands supply the drinking water for 60 million americans , support approximately 200,000 full and part each year . this partnership is based on shared goals of ensuring healthy watersheds and public engagement that serves those local communities , and will continue to deliver on that commitment for years to come . "  " a thriving watershed is critical to every community we serve and to our business , " said douglas . " coca-cola is on a journey and plans to continue to replenish 100 percent of the water we use in our beverages and their production and return it to nature and communities . we could not accomplish the milestone we celebrate today without the expertise , guidance and resources of the usda , the u.s. forest service , the national forest foundation and many other organizations and community partners . in the coming years , we will continue to work together to build scale and expand these projects and partnerships . "  this public-private partnership includes community organizations and taps their collective expertise to address increasing stress on water resources during challenging budget times . dozens of local communities and hundreds of volunteers and youth worked together on water resource management education northern new mexico is an example of the public-private partnerships approach . local partners worked together to help restore an alpine meadow and enhanced a natural wetland habitat . by slowing the flow of placer creek , a tributary of the rio grande , the local team helped to restore a biodiverse meadow habitat and replenish the groundwater that contributes to the city of santa fe , new mexico 's water supply . the meadow restoration project is expected to replenish approximately 49 million liters of water per year .  to date , coca-cola has contributed more than $2 million to the national forest foundation ( nff ) , a congressionally chartered foundation , to support usda forest service water restoration projects . nff has also contributed funding , expertise and overall project management , including the meadow restoration on the carson national forest .  " one of the primary purposes of the 1897 act that established our national forests , was to ensure the long-term supply of water for our country " forest service chief tom tidwell said . " more than 100 years later , the stewardship to be essential in ensuring an adequate water supply and providing high-quality water for needs across the united states . "  project listing by national forest ( some forests have multiple projects on site )  angeles national forest , california : the angeles national forest provides critical resources for the approximately 13 million people who live within an hour 's drive of the forest . in 2009 , the station fire damaged 252 square miles of forest , which allowed numerous invasive weed species to colonize upland in riparian ecosystems affected by the fire . in response to the fire 's devastation and associated ecological changes , the u.s. department of agriculture , forest service staff partnered with the national forest foundation ( nff ) and local communities to develop a 5-year restoration plan for big tujunga canyon , ultimately expanding this work to the san gabriel mountains national monument .  carson national forest , new mexico : historic and current recreational mining were threatening wetlands , a rare and critical resource in arid new mexico . in addition , eroding gullies were adding sediment to area waterways with the national forest foundation , coca-cola , others to design a restoration strategy to prevent further loss of wetland , while also improving water quality in placer creek and comanche creek . the partnership also focused on enhancing important habitat for native flora and fauna .  eldorado national forest , california : the mokelumne river supplies drinking water to 1.3 million people in the east san francisco bay and is vulnerable to upstream environmental damage . ecological restoration projects like the one completed by the indian valley partnership improve the function of forest and wetland ecosystems , providing for the species that rely on them . more resilient ecosystems benefit downstream communities -- like those in the east san francisco bay -- by helping provide a consistent and clean supply of water .  huron-manistee national forests , michigan : since 2008 , the huron-manistee national forests and the oceana county road commission have been working to replace deficient road stream crossings in the white river watershed , including along osborne and brayton creeks . undersized road-stream crossings prevent aquatic organism passage and contribute to frequent flood events that replacing culverts with bridges helped resolve both environmental impacts .  midewin national tallgrass prairie , illinois : the midewin national tallgrass prairie was established in 1996 on the u.s. army 's former joliet arsenal . portions of the prairie -- including the south prairie creek outwash plain -- were heavily degraded by previous management actions . partners focused their efforts on this particular portion of the landscape , replanting native grasses , treating invasive weeds , and removing agricultural drain tile . this prairie restoration improves the capacity to retain water , contributes to the formation of wetlands , and connects this area to prairie creek .  okanogan-wenatchee national forest , washington : the methow river basin provides spawning areas for spring chinook salmon , as well as spawning steelhead , cutthroat trout , and bull trout . by reestablishing active beaver colonies to area streams , the partnership helped reestablish key watershed processes that support these fish species . beaver colonies reintegrate dams into the area surface water , establishing wetlands , expanding habitat , and increasing the regularity of flows . in addition , as the u.s. a better understanding of the ecological effects of climate change , this project demonstrates an adaptive practice that offsets snowpack loss by storing water in beaver wetlands .  pike-san isabel national forests , colorado : burning nearly 140,000 acres , the 2002 hayman fire has had significant impacts on the municipal drinking water source area for the city of denver , co . the pike-san isabel national forest worked with the national forest foundation , coca-cola , and other partners to address post-fire restoration needs through nff 's treasured landscapes campaign , a multimillion dollar public-private partnership .