Engadget giveaway: Win a Samsung Gear 360 and video software ...
https://www.engadget.com/2016/09/13/engadget-giveaway-samsung-gear-360-cyberlink-director-suite-5/

the new director suite 5 lets you edit full 360-degree video content .  want to step into the 360-degree video editing arena at an affordable price ? cyberlink just launched director suite 5 , its $300 consumer-level editing bundle for fine-tuning your video captures in full 360-degree splendor . cyberlink 's true360 tech allows users to work on their content with tools like powerdirector 15 for finessing titles and transitions , and colordirector 5 for a wide range of color enhancements that even track along with moving objects . this week , cyberlink has provided a samsung gear 360 camera and its newest video-editing bundle , director suite 5 ( including four programs ) , to get one lucky reader started recording , editing and sharing experiences in the round . all you need to do is head to the rafflecopter widget below for up to three chances at winning this creative video package from cyberlink .  entries are handled through the rafflecopter widget above . comments are no longer accepted as valid methods of entry . you may enter without any obligation to social for extra entries . your email address is required so we can get in touch with you if you win , but it will not be given to third parties .  contest is open to all residents of the 50 states , the district of columbia , and canada ( excluding quebec ) , 18 or older ! sorry , we do n't make this rule ( we hate excluding anyone ) , so direct your anger at our lawyers and contest laws if you have to be mad .  if you are chosen , you will be notified by email . winners must respond within three days of being contacted . if you do not respond within that period , another winner will be chosen . make sure that the account you use to enter the contest includes your real name and a contact email . we do not track any of this information for marketing or third-party purposes .  this unit is purely for promotional giveaway . engadget and aol are not held liable to honor warranties , exchanges or customer service .