Urban Meyer's BCS memories of Oklahoma, and a word of caution ...
http://www.cleveland.com/osu/index.ssf/2016/09/urban_meyers_bcs_memories_of_o.html

columbus , ohio -- this is n't another story about an opposing team changing its defense to combat ohio state 's offense .  but it kind of is .  that 's been a nice talking point over the last two-plus buckeyes seasons . since virginia tech brought a bear into ohio stadium and won in 2014 , everyone has been on the lookout for wholesale defensive changes done by opponents meant to throw off urban meyer 's explosive offense .  that game was a frustrating experience for meyer , but not a new one . oklahoma did it to him first .  " that 's one of the first times that -- that 's one of those sick feelings on the sidelines , " meyer said , recalling coaching against the sooners in the 2009 bcs national championship while at florida .  " you use language i ca n't use right here , like son of a -- it 's tough . "  as meyer told it , in the 40 days the gators had to prepare for oklahoma , most oklahoma came onto the field that night in south florida , it was 3-4 .  minor change to the naked eye . it completely changes the way you call a game offensively .  an oklahoma defense that was no. 68 in total defense and no. 58 in scoring that year held florida -- the no. 4 scoring offense in college football -- to 24 points . tim tebow and percy harvin were grounded a little bit , or at least kept out of the end zone , and that gave the sooners a better chance .  florida won , 24-14 , to give meyer his second national championship .  so here 's the minor cautionary tale from meyer 's bcs memories of oklahoma for ohio state as the buckeyes get ready to head to norman , okla. , this weekend : prepare for everything , and anything .  " i just remember the conversations , ' what if they change ? ' meyer said .  the buckeyes know that , because since that loss to virginia tech other teams have tried to mimic the hokies much of a difference if your players are n't good .  oklahoma has good players . the sooners now play a base 3-4 defense -- maybe they liked what they saw in that bcs title game -- and it seems unlikely that they would flip back to a 4-3 . you stick with what works .  but oklahoma has played two games , and it will show something different defensively -- even if it 's minor -- to ohio state on saturday .  " you see something on film and most of the time it 's consistent with what you see , but there 's going to be a new wrinkle , " quarterback j.t. barrett said . " you try to judge other teams on film based on our formations , different plays and formations , but understand that they might approach you in a totally different way . "