Entitlement expansion: Trump to propose six paid weeks of ...
http://hotair.com/archives/2016/09/13/entitlement-expansion-trump-propose-six-paid-weeks-maternity-leave-child-care-tax-credits/

posted at 11:01 am on september 13 , 2016 by ed morrissey  when ivanka trump pushed for more government regulation on businesses for family leave at the republican convention , some wondered whether donald trump took it seriously . the answer , according to the washington post 's robert costa , is apparently yes . trump will propose six paid weeks of maternity leave , along with child-care tax credits aimed at families earning $500,000 a year or less :  a campaign memo shared early tuesday with the washington post shows that trump 's plan " will rewrite the tax code to allow working parents to deduct from their income taxes child-care expenses for up to four children and elderly dependents . "  that deduction would be capped at the " average cost of care " in the state of residence , and it would not be available to individuals earning more than $250,000 or a couple earning more than $500,000 . ...  another policy proposal will be guaranteeing " six weeks of paid maternity leave " through an amendment of current unemployment give twelve weeks of unpaid maternity leave , allowing new mothers to return to the same position ( or one of similar rank and equal pay ) . that creates a burden on employers already to fill positions temporarily , and the costs are not a wash . if employers have to pay six weeks of salary on top of that , the costs will be enormous .  costa 's description of this proposal sounds like it wo n't be a mandate on employers , at least not directly . trump may propose to pay benefits through the unemployment insurance system , even though the mothers will still be employed . all that does is shuffle the costs around , because employers already pay unemployment insurance tax on every employee to both the state and federal governments in order to fund unemployment payments . adding maternity to the conditions that trigger payment will force those taxes upward , and probably sharply .  let 's do the math . in 2014 , the latest period for which the cdc has birth data , the us had 3,988,076 births -- 40% . using the current labor force participation rate for women ( 56.8% ) , we can estimate that women who are employed had roughly 2.27 million of these births but that figure may really be higher than that , especially given the high percentage of births outside of marriage . the average per-capita income in the us is $28,555 ( 2014 figures , census bureau ) , which would amount to $549 per week , or about $3300 for six weeks . the cost of this program would be another $7.5 billion in payouts from the unemployment system each year , on top of the payments already being made for actual unemployment .  now consider the current status of budgets , not just at the federal level but also in each of the states . almost every state has a looming pension crisis , and the federal budget operates on 40% borrowed money -- on top of having an entitlement-program crisis looming . the system does not have room for another entitlement program , and businesses are already struggling with costs . this program would have to burden employers because going to hurt smaller businesses more because of the realities of the economies of scale . it will be yet another reason for businesses to refrain from hiring as a way to limit their exposure to higher taxes , along with the other employer mandate that came from obamacare .  when ivanka highlighted the " wage gap " in her speech at the republican convention , i warned this might be coming :  what made this stand out even more was that it was the only issue in which ivanka went into detail . the other political points raised in her introduction were at the level of my father will fight for you on this . ivanka spent three of the 22 paragraphs of her speech on this point alone . clearly , team trump understands that they have a steep gender gap to bridge in the general election , and they may have wanted to pre-empt ( or " triangulate " ) the issue ahead of next week 's democratic convention , when hillary clinton will ride it hard . to conservatives who already worry about trump 's for the kind of government intervention in marketplace decisions that they usually fight democrats to stop rather than republicans .  this is more than triangulation -- it 's a surrender on the principle of limited government . the tax credits may or may not be wisely configured , but guaranteeing pay will require precisely the government intervention at which ivanka 's speech hinted . we 're still giving away fantasy money , spending cash that even our grandchildren 's grandchildren have n't yet earned , and now republicans want to indulge that same democratic fantasy .