Donald Trump puts one of his Republican critics on a new short list ...
http://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/trailguide/la-na-trailguide-updates-donald-trump-puts-gop-critic-on-new-1474645169-htmlstory.html

donald trump puts one of his republican critics on a new shortlist of possible supreme court nominees  donald trump puts one of his republican critics on a new shortlist of possible supreme court nominees  donald trump has put a utah senator at the top of his list of new potential supreme court picks . the republican 's response : thanks , but no thanks .  the republican presidential nominee is set to release a list of 10 additional names he would consider to fill a vacancy on the high court . he first proposed potential picks after the death of justice antonin scalia and the senate 's refusal to consider president obama 's nomination of judge merrick garland to replace scalia .  according to nbc news , sen. mike lee is among the new group , the only elected official on a list that includes appeals court , district court and state supreme court judges .  lee , who is seeking reelection this year and had endorsed sen. ted cruz in the gop primaries , has refused to back trump . a nomination if offered next year .  " sen. lee already has the job he wants , which is why he is campaigning to represent the great people of utah again this year , " spokesman conn carroll said .  he added that the new list of potential justices , and his inclusion on it , " does not change sen lee 's mind about trump in any way whatsoever . "  trump put out an initial list of 11 potential picks in may , a move meant to offer reassurance to republicans for whom the balance of the supreme court is a top priority . he said conservative groups such as the heritage foundation and federalist society helped draft the list .  that initial list included another name that raised eyebrows : diane sykes , the former wife of a conservative radio host who has been an outspoken trump critic . it also included utah supreme court justice thomas lee , the senator 's brother .