'Game Of Thrones' Star Supports A Secret HBO Conspiracy
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/game-of-thrones-star-supports-an-hbo-conspiracy_us_57e53184e4b08d73b830b7d7

' game of thrones ' star supports a secret hbo conspiracy  conspiracy ? you 're dorne tootin ' .  when you play the " game of thrones , " you win or you get completely tricked by hbo , according to the former ruler of dorne .  actor alexander siddig played prince doran martell in seasons 5 and 6 . in a recent interview with startrek.com , he opened up about the intense secrecy surrounding the show , suggesting the network actively sends out misinformation in order to misdirect fans . he threw out some shocking support for an hbo conspiracy :  last season , i believe that the first few episodes were stolen and downloaded online , and everybody got to see them before the show actually aired , and everybody was furious at hbo and whatnot . i do n't know if you remember . i am almost positive that those four episodes were leaked by hbo themselves .  could hbo have actually leaked the episodes by itself ? " game of thrones " certainly does n't need episode-by-episode reviews and the " leak " got a ton of free publicity . it might have been a clever pr move .  the only thing that does n't fit is why hbo was supposedly tracking down people who had watched the leaked material . that could simply be a cover up , though .  siddig says there is " an enormous amount of spin going on " surrounding the show , but he adds that the conspiracy idea is just his own opinion .  it makes sense that the actor who plays prince doran would be into conspiracies . in the books , his character is busy scheming behind the scenes , which the show did n't allow him time to do .  siddig admits he 's " not really sure " why he was killed off so soon ? in the season 6 premiere . apparently , the actor was contracted to appear in four episodes of that season ; however , during the phone call in which showrunners told him when his character would die , he learned they had originally planned to kill him off  " if they were going to kill me off at the end of the last season why would they contract me for those four episodes ? " asked siddig .  the actor speculates that he might 've been killed off because he said the wrong thing to someone in charge . sure , that 's possible . from the beginning , though , the dorne storyline was criticized heavily by fans for less-than-spectacular characters and fight sequences :  yeah , people were n't happy with that .  unlike the leaked episodes , there 's likely no conspiracy for siddig 's early exit . all disappointing plot lines must die .