Day of Giving to help honor guards
http://www.commercial-news.com/news/local_news/day-of-giving-to-help-honor-guards/article_427d4625-cbd3-5811-a7c9-70914e114390.html

top story  washington -- donald trump mischaracterized the record on hillary clinton 's defense of her husband and her own treatment of women when he brought up bill clinton 's sexual history and other episodes of the past . clinton did n't give a square account of the fallout from her email practices .  top story  policy proposals , experience and temperament should be the basis for evaluating presidential candidates , not campaign commercials or social media . with those criteria in mind , we endorse hillary clinton to be the next president of the united states .  * paris and charleston : deipholz auto group on u.s. route 150 in paris and 631 w. lincoln in charleston .  it 's easy to donate , as people can just drive up to the sites and the volunteers will come to the car . people also may send checks ( made out to the american legion ) to any sunset funeral home or donate online .  the campaign has blossomed since rich darby came up with the idea four years ago . , was attending a veteran 's funeral in the oppressive heat when he noticed that the honor guard continued to stand at attention without flinching . at that moment , he decided to do something to help the veterans , and launched operation honor guard to raise money to help buy clothing and equipment .  since then , operation honor guard has turned into a two-part campaign : a 5k fun run to benefit the american legion post 210 and the day of giving in the fall to raise money for several legions .  this is the first year that the day of giving has become a national event .  last year , it raised $60,000 just at three sites and online ; this year , the goal is $100,000 , darby said .  all of the money raised will be disbursed to the american legions where the collections are held .  darby is partnering with funeral homes and cemeteries in illinois , iowa and michigan to put on the day of giving . there also will be a fund-raising event in tennessee in november . the partners ' reaction . but they 're also fearful , as the fundraiser is new to them . darby , however , has been organizing the fundraiser for three years , and has a manual available for them .  money raised in each city will benefit veterans ' groups in those cities .  despite all the negativity in the united states right now , darby said he 's getting only positive reactions about the day of giving . people want to help veterans , he said .  also , an unintended side benefit is that operation honor guard is raising awareness about honor guards , and that 's been attracting young members , darby said . the average age of an honor guard member is 77 .  the veterans who make up an honor guard give a fallen soldier a dignified , respectful farewell by performing military rites at his or her funeral . they serve in any weather conditions , any time of day , and without compensation .  in the past , the members bought their own clothing , and nobody matched . -- the fun run and the day of giving -- the veterans have been able to buy decent clothing , raincoats , winter jackets , flags , bugles and rifle parts .  the american legion post 210 has always been able to have a full squad for an honor guard , with about 12-13 people ; about 20 veterans are available . however , many of the members are getting older .  darby said there will always be a need for uniforms and equipment . there are more than 10,000 veterans service organizations ' honor guards in the united states , and each guard has an average of 12 members . it costs $800 to outfit one member , he said .  not only does clothing wear out , but the veterans need ammunition , rifle parts and transportation money .