A Rape and Murder Prompts Thousands of Argentine Women to ...
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/20/world/americas/argentina-protest-women-sexual-violence-rape-murder.html

a rape and murder prompts thousands of argentine women to protest  buenos aires -- women across argentina stopped work for an hour on wednesday and took part in mass demonstrations to demand more protection after an escalation in attacks against women and girls this month .  thousands marched , most dressed in black , down a central avenue in buenos aires waving signs with the names of victims and chanting slogans , including the name of the movement , " ni una menos " ( not one less ) and " we want to live . "  " every day there is one woman less , " daniela valle lende , 27 , said under a persistent rain . " none of us is exempt from the violence . "  this was the third national protest organized by ni una menos , a movement of women 's rights advocates , since the first was held in june of last year .  the march was hastily organized on social media after the rape and murder of luc ? a p ? rez in ? rez , a 16-year-old high school student was drugged , raped and impaled on oct. 8 by at least two men , according to an initial investigation by mar ? a isabel s ? nchez , the prosecutor in the case .  ms. p ? rez was one of 19 women and girls murdered in the first 18 days of october , according to the secretariat of human rights .  between 2008 and 2015 , one woman was killed every 30 hours in episodes of domestic violence for a total of 2,094 victims , according to la casa del encuentro , a women 's rights group .  organizers of the rallies called on the government , justice system and the police to do more to stop the violence . they also demanded a clampdown on the trafficking of girls for prostitution , more opportunities for job promotions , equal pay with men , longer maternity leave , child care for working mothers and free access to lawyers for victims of domestic violence .  " if we do n't have economic independence , it 's impossible to a florencia alcaraz , 31 , a journalist and member of ni una menos .  before the marches , argentina 's president , mauricio macri , said he would push ahead with carrying out a proposal , announced in july , to reduce violence against women . the legislation would include establishing a hotline to report abuse , better monitoring of abusers , and shelters . " we are going to continue with this task , which is what the vast majority of argentines want , " mr. macri said .  a version of this article appears in print on october 20 , 2016 , on page a12 of the new york edition with the headline : women in argentina protest violence . order reprintstoday 's papersubscribe