N. Powder rancher disturbed by occupation of wildlife refuge
http://www.bakercityherald.com/Local-News/N-Powder-rancher-disturbed-by-occupation-of-wildlife-refuge

recent article comments  n. powder rancher disturbed by occupation of wildlife refuge  by jayson jacoby/baker city herald january 04 , 2016 09:49 am  curtis martin , past president of the oregon cattlemen 's association , worries the action will deflect attention from what he calls the " travesty of justice " involving the prison sentences of ranchers dwight hammond and his son , steven  the situation in harney county , with armed militia members occupying a federal building and vowing to stay there for years , is precisely the outcome curtis martin hoped would not happen .  martin is a north powder cattle rancher and past president of the oregon cattlemen 's association .  he describes the five-year prison terms imposed on harney county ranchers dwight hammond and his son , steven , for lighting fires that burned onto public land , as a " travesty of justice . "  yet martin also is disturbed that a group of people , following a rally saturday in burns in support of the hammonds , occupied the headquarters of the malheur national bundy and that group making it more volatile is an extremely sensitive situation , " martin said sunday afternoon .  " these outside influences are not necessarily of benefit to the hammond family or to the ranching community . "  the bundy who martin mentioned is ammon bundy . he 's a son of nevada rancher cliven bundy , who was at the center of a 2014 standoff with federal agents regarding grazing fees that cliven bundy had refused to pay .  ammon bundy , who is one of the leaders of the group that entered the malheur refuge headquarters on saturday , has called for people to join them in the occupation .  martin worries that bundy 's actions will deflect the public 's attention from the hammonds ' story .  the father and son were convicted in 2012 of lighting fires on federal land adjacent to their cattle ranch southeast of burns , near the wildlife refuge .  although the hammonds were charged under a federal terrorism law that mandates a five-year prison sentence , u.s. district judge michael hogan in 2012 argued on " cruel and unusual punishments . "  hogan sentenced dwight hammond to three months , and steven hammond to one year .  martin said hogan 's sentence was reasonable .  " he was a very conscientious judge , " martin said of hogan .  but a u.s. attorney objected to hogan 's sentencing , and an appeals court ordered that the hammonds be resentenced .  in october 2015 , u.s. chief district judge ann aiken sentenced both hammonds to five years , minus the time both men had already served .  the hammonds said they intend to turn themselves in to authorities today to begin their sentences .  martin said he and other officials from the oregon cattlemen 's association have been advocating on the hammonds ' behalf in two ways .  first , martin said , they are encouraging blm officials to renew the hammonds ' grazing permits for public land , without which the family would struggle to operate their ranch .  second , martin said he and others have tried to warn federal officials that the resentencing of 're seeing unfold now . "  " i have deep concern for the possible violence coming out of that , " martin said . it is really a sad state of affairs that this kind of extremism on both sides has been so divisive . there 's no good that can come of it . we want to avoid news highlight reels of confrontations between armed citizens and federal marshals , but yet have this be the catalyst to work toward solutions for this injustice to never occur again between private citizens and government agencies . "