What does an influx of low-skilled immigrants mean for the economy?
http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/ct-immigration-economic-effect-20160104-story.html

what does an influx of low-skilled immigrants mean for the economy ?  only at an economics conference will people talk for two hours about immigration and never mention donald trump .  what they discussed instead sunday afternoon , on the opening day of the american economics association 's annual january gathering , were the forces that appear to be propelling trump 's run for the republican presidential nomination : increased immigration , liberalized global trade and the recent struggles of lower-skill american workers .  several papers scheduled to be presented at the conference this week deal with the effects of immigration on native-born workers , for good and for bad . one of the first , co-authored by researchers from the atlanta and boston branches of the federal reserve , federico mandelman and andrei zlate , built a theoretical economic model to examine what happens to particular groups of native-born americans when policymakers open up trade and allow more low-skilled immigrants into the country .  the short version of their results is that when trade increases , there are more jobs for highly fewer jobs for the workers in the middle , on assembly lines or in secretarial pools .  when low-skilled immigration increases at the same time , they find , wages stagnate for the lowest-skilled workers , even though there are more jobs for them to do , because there are more workers in the economy .  those findings could be straight out of a trump rally , if trump rallies were held in carpeted hotel meeting rooms and the candidate mostly read equations to the crowd from a powerpoint .  they track with the economic anxieties of workers without college degrees , who form the backbone of trump 's support and who have seen millions of jobs outsourced in recent decades , while real wages stagnated for middle- and low-paid workers .  but the final result from the model probably wo n't ring true to those workers , at all .  it says they 're better off from those changes .  an influx of low-skilled immigrants should encourage low-skilled , native-born americans to invest in more education and skills training , mandelman and zlate find those native-born workers buy , in the same way that increased trade lowers the cost of some consumer goods . those things should be good for productivity , which is good for the economy .  the math in the modeling gets complicated here , but the end result , the researchers find , is that even lower-skilled native-born workers are better off with more trade and immigration .  many workers quite clearly do n't see it that way , especially the ones at trump rallies . another economist who critiqued the paper , brad hershbein of the upjohn institute , noted several questions raised by the modeling results . for example , he asked if there 's really evidence of displaced workers increasingly investing in education and training -- and why america 's productivity growth has been sluggish in recent years , if immigration and trade are so good for productivity .  " distributional effects and speed of adjustment matter , " he said , which is an economist 's way of saying , what if people in the real world are n't adjusting like your model predicts for politicians too .