Wife of polygamous church leader testifies at discrimination trial
http://www.sltrib.com/home/3467637-155/wife-of-polygamous-church-leader-testifies

ex-wife of polygamous church leader testifies at discrimination trial  ( ross d. franklin the associated press ) willie jessop , a former spokesperson and head of security of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints before leaving the sect in 2011 , leaves the sandra day o'connor united states district court after a day of testifying during a federal civil rights trial against two polygamous towns on the arizona-utah line on tuesday in phoenix .  ( ross d. franklin the associated press ) willie jessop , a former spokesperson and head of security of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints before leaving the sect in 2011 , leaves the sandra day o'connor united states district court after a day of testifying during a federal civil rights trial against two polygamous towns on the arizona-utah line on tuesday in phoenix .  charlene wall jeffs ? former wife of lyle jeffs , the man now running flds operations , says lying to the government is ok as long as it 's " a white lie . "  " being in said charlene wall jeffs , as she introduced herself to a phoenix courtroom from the witness stand wednesday .  she has since divorced lyle jeffs , the man running the day-to-day operations of the polygamous fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints .  the u.s. justice department called charlene jeffs as a witness in its discrimination lawsuit against the towns of hildale , utah , and colorado city , ariz. , collectively known as short creek . the justice department alleges the two municipal governments collude with the church to discriminate against people who are not flds .  while a few wives have testified in proceedings against the flds through the years -- including two of charlene jeffs ' half-sisters -- charlene jeffs may be the first who was legally married to someone so high in the flds hierarchy . lyle jeffs is believed to have eight other spiritual wives .  charlene jeffs , 50 , told the jury that her parents joined the flds when she was 2 years old and that she grew up in the salt lake valley .  " it was the flds . " it was all about family , about love . "  flds members were taught that if the government apprehended them , they should agree with their captor until their release , she said . then they could resume how they were living before .  justice department attorney sean keveney asked her whether that mean it was ok to lie to the government .  her marriage at age 18 to lyle jeffs was arranged . the couple went on to have 10 children . they lived in the salt lake valley until 2001 , when the faithful were ordered by her father-in-law , then-flds president rulon jeffs , to move to short creek . rulon jeffs and his son warren told the people that the 2002 winter olympics would bring about a rapture in the salt lake valley .  rulon jeffs died in 2002 , and warren jeffs ascended to flds prophet . that is when things began to change , charlene jeffs testified . warren jeffs eventually banned sex between spouses and said men and women should be separated .  when warren helped account for money the faithful were donating to him and the church . she would enter the offerings into a spreadsheet program .  the offerings she recorded included those from hildale and colorado city marshals and from town officials , she testified . she said she also saw cash being inspected for sequential serial numbers .  such bills were put aside , and lyle jeffs would take them to a casino , buy chips , remain there an hour and then cash out , charlene jeffs testified .  in 2010 , warren jeffs , from jail cells in texas , created the united order , an elite subset of the flds . people in the united order had to take an oath to not discuss it and could not live or speak with people who did n't qualify .  charlene jeffs said she was exiled in 2012 , though she did n't say why . she was sent to live alone in a trailer in short creek .  reader comments on sltrib.com are the opinions of the writer , not the salt lake tribune . inappropriate or offensive remarks . flagrant or repeat violators will be banned . if you see an objectionable comment , please alert us by clicking the arrow on the upper right side of the comment and selecting " flag comment as inappropriate " . if you 've recently registered with disqus or are n't seeing your comments immediately , you may need to verify your email address . to do so , visit disqus.com/account . see more about comments here .