Unjust Indictment Can't Hide The Realities Of Big Abortion
http://dailycaller.com/2016/01/27/unjust-indictment-cant-hide-the-realities-of-big-abortion/

unjust indictment ca n't hide the realities of big abortion  on monday , a grand jury indicted pro-life investigator david daleiden and his compatriot susan merrill . as the grand jury allowed planned parenthood to go scot-free , daleiden and merrill face up to 20 years in prison for using a fake id and for offering to purchase aborted babies ' body parts as part of their undercover work .  pro-life advocates are rightly infuriated by the jury 's decision , as evidenced by a lifesite petition backing daleiden that has more than 70,000 signatures in just 40 hours . but as the lawyers gear up for what will likely be a tremendous battle in court , the indictment is a chance to remind the public exactly what the abortion industry is all about .  last summer , daleiden and his allies exposed how planned parenthood profits off of the harvesting of baby parts . horrifying and illegal as these practices are , they just scratch the surface of what else goes on behind the scenes . indeed , these practices are not limited protecting rapists , defrauding taxpayers , and using body parts for beauty products and incinerators .  however , according to a comprehensive report from the alliance defending freedom ( adf ) , these hard-earned public dollars are often misused . adf 's report identified 105 " limited audits that have found a total of more than $129.7 million in waste , abuse , and potential fraud in federal and state family planning funding programs , the lion 's share of which goes to planned parenthood . "  adf legal counsel catherine foster explained more in an e-mail . " our report compiles all the known public audits of abortion industry billings , " she explained . " we found that government audits have uncovered hundreds of thousands of unlawfully billed claims related to abortion , and planned parenthood has been the source of at least $8.5 million in waste , abuse , and potential fraud . additionally , a texas planned parenthood affiliate settled fraud claims for $4.3 million . "  in november 2014 , alabama officials discovered a 14-year-old girl had two abortions at a planned parenthood , the clinic had not reported the girl 's condition . in a conversation with a reporter from my outlet , lifesitenews , a state official protected planned parenthood , saying the violation of state lawwas not done intentionally . that same official asked a lifesitenews reporter to put the discovery and the subsequent wrist slapin a positive light .  horrifying practices are not limited to planned parenthood , or even the u.s. in early 2014 , canadian officials admitted they were sending aborted babies to oregon as a source of energy for incinerators . the babieswere officially qualified as " medical waste . "  in the netherlands and ukraine , abortion clinics harvested babies at 12 weeks ' gestation for beauty treatments for wealthybritish andrussian women , respectively . and in 2010 , pro-life groupsraised the alarm about possible medical experimentation with aborted babies at the university of wisconsin , while in ukraineprematurely born babies may have been sold for parts .  disturbingly , the worst practice of the abortion industry is n't protection of rapists , or its potential theft of public resources . it is bymodern medical science andthe world 's most important religious and philosophicaltext as just as human as you or me .  since its fetal harvesting program was exposed , planned parenthood has relied upon misdirection and , now , a legal travesty to hide the abortion industry 's true nature . however , the cat 's out of the bag , folks -- and those who destroy life for profit are on the wrong side of history .  john-henry westen is the co-founder and editor-in-chief of lifesitenews , and founder of the rome life forum . he is on the executive committee for the canadian march for life .