Superintendent cleared, but of what?
http://www.fox13news.com/news/local-news/83738489-story

Related Stories  LAKELAND ( FOX 13 ) - Polk County Schools Superintendent Kathryn LeRoy has been cleared of any misconduct following an internal investigation .  The Polk County School Board hired an independent Tallahassee law firm to conduct the internal investigation after Associate Superintendent Greg Rivers filed nine formal complaints against LeRoy .  The Shiffen &amp; Spellman law firm released a portion of the investigation on Monday . In it , they depict a professional and personal relationship between LeRoy and Rivers .  Among other professional complaints , Rivers accused LeRoy of treating him unfairly after developing a personal relationship with him . Both Rivers and LeRoy told investigators they regularly text messaged each other and would go out for drinks or lunch .  LeRoy told investigators she considered Rivers a " close platonic friend . " The two admitted to exchanging Christmas gifts and birthday cards . Rivers also told investigators he made LeRoy compact disc music compilations .  But Rivers accused his boss of wanting more . He told investigators LeRoy attempted to kiss him during a work trip his hand following a different work function .  He said when LeRoy felt unfavorably toward him , he was " subjected to a hostile work environment " and " treated very differently than other members of her staff . "  Investigators say while the two shared a clear personal relationship , LeRoy did not violate School Board policy at any time .  LeRoy released a personally-funded video statement to the media on Monday .  " I have come to realize that what others describe as an outgoing personality can be misinterpreted by some . I regret that and have learned from it , " she said .  Investigators recommended the School Board advise LeRoy and Rivers to keep relationships at a professional arm 's length . They also recommended additional sexual harassment training for LeRoy and her entire cabinet .