Racing is alive and well, but changes are happening fast
http://espn.go.com/racing/story/_/id/14691092/there-always-racing-adapting-changes-key

Analyzing the global " State of Racing " from a U.S. perspective is difficult because America 's fondness for oval track racing separates it from the rest of the world .  Just as we have our own unique style and league for football , NASCAR has become synonymous for racing in the U.S. Bob Pockrass will assess the " State of NASCAR " in a separate story later this week , and Indy car racing and Formula One and their respective feeder networks also merit individual discussion . So we 'll start things out today with a look at the rest of the world of motorsports .  Internationally , almost every major form of motorsports is road-racing based , and outside of F1 and NASCAR , arguably the most successful series in the world right now is staged on two wheels rather than four .  Editor 's Picks  Maybe cool cars draw the stars -- and fans -- to the Rolex 24 . Whatever it was , the race proved to be intriguing and the fans seemed happy .  The FIM MotoGP by the intense rivalry that has developed between champion riders Valentino Rossi and Marc Marquez . The changing of the guard between the old master and the heir apparent produced a tense atmosphere that has spilled over to the track in a dangerous way , similar to the psychological battle between Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost in F1 in the late 1980s and early ' 90s .  As a truly international formula , MotoGP is encountering the same problems and issues that F1 dealt with 10 or 20 years ago , mainly the transition from traditional European venues into Asia and the Middle East . MotoGP is also losing its footprint in the U.S. , currently lacking an American rider and dropping from three American races on the calendar as recently as 2013 to a single event this year at Circuit of the Americas in Austin , Texas .  If the personalities have come to the fore in MotoGP , the FIA World Endurance Championship has done the best job of making the cars the stars .  The 24 Hours of Le Mans remains one of the world nine-race championship that supports Le Mans is in its strongest position in decades . Sports car racing has done a better job than F1 in terms of integrating modern automotive technology that is relevant to road cars , as reflected in the diesel-powered and hybrid prototypes from Porsche , Audi and Toyota that compete in the top P1 class .  Although the WEC hosts an American round -- also at COTA -- the U.S. is big enough to support a sports car series of its own . The problem is that the cars that people want to see -- the crazy P1 prototypes -- are legislated out of what is now known as the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship and its crown jewel endurance races , the Rolex 24 at Daytona and the Mobil 1 12 Hours of Sebring .  Daytona , Sebring , and Road Atlanta 's 10-hour Petit Le Mans remain celebrated and successful events , but it 's frustrating to think about how sports car racing in America could be taken to another level if the factory P1 prototypes were allowed to participate .  The good being taken to more closely align the regulations for the WEC 's P2 class that will take over as the top category for the IMSA series .  Even though the revamp of IMSA 's prototype class is a year away , the last season where the old Daytona Prototypes and outgoing P2 cars compete for overall honors is still compelling . But the toughest competition in the series is in the GTLM class , with factory efforts from Porsche , BMW , Corvette , and a much ballyhooed return of the Ford GT .  The NHRA has a new TV partner it hopes can bring the excitement of drag racing to a live audience much more often than in the past . Mark J. Rebilas/USA TODAY Sports  The Pirelli World Challenge offers a sprint-race alternative to IMSA 's shows , which run a minimum of 2-1/2 hours . Often run in conjunction with IndyCar Series events , the PWC includes factory efforts from the likes of Cadillac and Acura and the widest range of cars you 'll see on a grid anywhere in the world , ranging from most forms of motorsports , sedan racing is down from its peak 20 years ago . But " local " series like Germany 's DTM and Australian V8 Supercars have successfully gone semi-international in an attempt to compensate for reduced interest at home .  The DTM still enjoys strong factory support from Mercedes-Benz , Audi and BMW . But even before news broke that Ford and GM division Holden will cease car production in Australia in a couple of years , V8 Supercars opened the door for foreign manufacturers like Nissan and Volvo . Like any formula , they were adapting to the times .  Back in the U.S. , drag racing is n't quite as uniquely American as NASCAR , but it still occupies a special place in our culture . Perhaps more than any other form of motorsports , drag racing is susceptible to the notion that most people have lost a hands-on connection with working on or hopping up their cars .  There 's no question that today 's street cars are faster , safer , more comfortable , more efficient and more reliable than little more than appliances , complex machines that require specialists for formerly simple tasks like changing oil or spark plugs .  Television-friendly racing by series such as Stadium Super Trucks are garnering more attention . Cole Burston/Toronto Star/Getty Images  Under new leader Peter Clifford , the NHRA has come out on offense , crafting an aggressive new media strategy that will feature the majority of its events televised live for the first time on Fox Sports 1 . Marquee events like the U.S. Nationals in Indianapolis will be broadcast on the flagship Fox network .  While a traditional form of motorsports like drag racing is getting a media makeover to remain competitive in the modern market , a more serious threat comes in the form of " made for TV " racing .  The X-Games demonstrated that motorsports can be staged in a stadium environment with a TV-friendly format , and series like Red Bull Global RallyCross and Robby Gordon 's Stadium Super Trucks have capitalized on race fans ' desire to see vehicles slide around in spectacular fashion . The format of short heat races lends span of modern sports fans .  If there 's one facet of racing that longtime fans will have to adapt to , it 's the changing sound of the sport , and novelty that it is , Formula E in many ways is a glimpse into the future .  As long as there have been cars , people have raced them . Formula E is racers preparing for the future , because they know that changing the way cars look or sound is n't going to extinguish the desire to see them pitted in competition .  The cars may change , and the way fans watch the action probably will too . Like many sports , racing has suffered a decline in popularity from its peak years . But it 's not going away anytime soon .