22 Student Teams Advance to Second Stage of Pod Design at ...
http://www.i4u.com/2016/02/104253/22-student-teams-advance-second-stage-pod-design-spacex-hyperloop-test-track

over 115 engineering student groups from 27 us states and 20 countries around the world participated at spacex 's hyperloop pod competition design weekend which held at texas a&amp;m university in college station , texas ; but 22 teams are advancing to the second stage of the competition .  several criteria were used to judge the overall pod designs submitted by the student engineering teams , and these included innovation and uniqueness of design ; full hyperloop system applicability and economics ; level of design detail ; strength of supporting analysis and tests ; feasibility for test tract competition ; and quality of documentation and presentation .  the top 5 student teams that came tops for design and build category were --  " congratulations to the finalists and all the student teams who competed in the first-ever spacex hyperloop pod competition , " said john sharp , chancellor of the texas a&amp;m university system . " i am especially proud of aerospace hyperloop , a finalist representing texas a&amp;m university and its world-class engineering program in the next round . "  michael k. from the university , saying it was a pride for a team from the university to have involved in a world-changing event and technology and also advance to the next stage of the competition . he encouraged the team members to continue to be innovative and creative at solving the world 's problems .  " the future of engineering was on display this weekend in college station , " said m. katherine banks , vice chancellor and dean of texas a&amp;m engineering . " we challenge our students to step outside their comfort zones and approach engineering problems in novel ways . the young men and women at this competition definitely accomplished that , and presented design and technical concepts that were well beyond anyone 's expectations . "  several other teams moved on to the second stage of the competition in texas , and some other teams were awarded recognitions in the subsystem and design category .  elon musk , co-founder of spacex and tesla motors came up with the hyperloop idea in 2013 , a passenger transport system that will travel from los angeles to san student teams to submit design for the hyperloop pod and several teams did so with some moving to the next stage of the completion .  about i4u news  i4u news is feeding your geek mind daily with what is important . the geek mind is concerned with life , in all its different forms and facets .  the geek mind wants to know about societal and financial issues , both abroad and at home . if a fortune 500 decides to raise their minimum wage , or any high priority news , the geek mind wants to know .  the geek mind wants to know the top teams in the national football league , or who 's likely to win the nba finals this coming year .  the geek mind wants to know who the hottest new models are , or whether the newest blockbuster movie is worth seeing . the geek mind wants to know of course also what the latest discoveries in science are and the latest technology news . geeks find it all here on i4u news .