Board takes next step in disposing of old Pinckneyville hospital ...
http://thesouthern.com/news/local/communities/pinckneyville/board-takes-next-step-in-disposing-of-old-pinckneyville-hospital/article_1af4f5fd-03df-53df-aab6-6be9e8147fff.html

Faculty and staff marked the opening of the new Pinckneyville Community Hospital by releasing dozens of balloons in front of the main entrance in September .  PINCKNEYVILLE -- Pinckneyville Community Hospital moved to a new facility at 5383 Illinois 154 in September .  In months since , the old hospital building at 101 N. Walnut St. still sits empty .  CEO Randall Dauby said the hospital board is making progress , but has not reached a decision about what to do with the empty building .  " We are looking at potentially having an online auction of the items we no longer use , " he said . " The next step will be going through the building with the auctioneer and looking at what we have available for auction . "  Related  PINCKNEYVILLE -- When Pinckneyville Community Hospital moved to its new location at 5383 Illi ...  The empty building contains some furnishings and equipment that was replaced in the new hospital , such as desks , chairs and lockers . Dauby used the lockers as an example . . They will look at the costs of having an employee remove them versus the liability of having a purchaser remove them .  " We have had our focus on the new building . We saw a few changes that are needed , " Dauby said .  They discovered there was no way to secure the front office area . As a result , the business office is still located at the old family medical center downtown . Dauby said moving the business office to the new hospital will save money .  " As far as demolition , we have talked to a couple companies about costs , but no decision has been made , " Dauby said .  Related  Monday was moving day for the patients and staff of Pinckneyville hospital . As nine patients ...  Dauby stressed that finishing work on a few things at the new building has taken priority over disposing of the old hospital , but they are making progress on both .  The board was asked by George Culley in October to donate the old building to Least and homeless shelter . At that time , Dauby said the board could not decide the fate of the old building until completing certain steps in due diligence . They are progressing toward that decision .  Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion .  ( 2 ) comments  Yahoo lying lips CEO Randall Dauby wants to tear it down for his political moneychangers ! The scandal cover up over the old Pinckneyville hospital will be revealed soon . The whistle blowers are about to blow the whistle on this hidden agenda !  Welcome to the discussion .  Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the @ @ @ @ @