Maurice White and The Long Slow Death Of The R&amp;B Band
http://www.bet.com/news/celebrities/2016/02/05/maurice-white-and-the-long-slow-death-of-the-r-b-band.html

in the late ' 90s , singer faith evans asked sean " puffy " combs , the head of her label , bad boy records , if she could tour with a live band . a true singer 's singer , faith had grown up performing with musicians in church and in the studio . she 'd attended concerts where the artists had a full live band and she wanted to bring that feel to her shows . combs shut her down . there was no way . touring with a band was too expensive -- and with technology , it was just completely unnecessary . with the touch of a button , the sounds of a live band could be anywhere .  one of the greatest things about hip-hop music and culture is that it leveled the playing field and allowed young people to express themselves without the burden and expense of instrumentation . instead of having a live band -- we learned to sample those very bands and produce music with soul without having to deal with the cost . but that benefit we integral part of black music .  the concept of an actual band has slowly eroded over the years , as the cost of making music has dropped . platinum-selling artists can record entire albums in complete solitude . today , those who make music never have to actually learn how to plan an instrument . that 's not necessarily a bad thing . but it definitely changes the face of music , particular in r&amp;b and soul music , which has its roots in musical bands .  and so , the recent death of earth wind &amp; fire founder maurice white is more than just a loss for the group -- it 's an extreme loss for live bands and instrumentation as whole .  the gap band , kool and the gang , maze featuring frankie beverly -- live instrumentation has always been part of the best of black music . but by the 1990s , the concept , ( with a few exceptions , including tony toni ton ? ) , was fading away .  of course , these artists still live on in music created which tracks hip-hop tracks that sample older songs , earth wind &amp; fire has been sampled a whopping 434 times . it 's proof positive that even if the music is n't being created from scratch , it 's still being validated and appreciated .  interestingly , one of the most sampled tracks from earth wind &amp; fire is also one of their most musically intricate and complex .  brazilian rhyme , ( beijo interlude ) was borrowed over fifty times by a broad sample of hip-hop artists over the years , from eazy e , big pun and mary j. blige to a tribe called quest , the fugees and joe budden .  it 's a beautiful thing that earth , wind &amp; fire 's music will still be a force that lives on -- both in their music and that of the hip-hop generation that used it to create their own sound .  however , the death of maurice white also serves to remind us that the era of live instrumentation remains ever closer to also resting in peace .