'Gods of Egypt' Super Bowl Commercial Ignites an Epic War
http://movieweb.com/gods-of-egypt-movie-trailer-super-bowl-commercial/

' gods of egypt ' super bowl commercial ignites an epic war  super bowl sunday promises to bring an onslaught of epic trailers and tv spots for all the most anticipated movies coming in 2016 . today , we get an early look at lionsgate 's big game spot for the fantasy epic gods of egypt . it 's god vs god as an intense war breaks out across the land . there is plenty of hot action and big beasts on the loose in this searing sneak peek . you can watch the full minute of mostly new footage here , right now , ensuring that you 'll have at least one commercial break where you can go to the bathroom this sunday !  magic , monsters , gods and madness reign throughout the palaces and pyramids of the nile river valley in this action-adventure inspired by the classic mythology of egypt . with the survival of mankind hanging in the balance , an unexpected hero takes a thrilling journey to save the world and rescue his true love . set ( gerard butler egypt 's throne , plunging the once peaceful and prosperous empire into chaos and conflict . with only a handful of heroic rebels opposing set 's savage rule , bek ( brenton thwaites ) , a bold and defiant mortal , enlists the aid of powerful god horus ( nikolaj coster-waldau ) in an unlikely alliance against the evil overlord .  as their breathtaking battle against set and his henchmen take them into the afterlife and across the heavens , both god and mortal must pass tests of courage and sacrifice if they hope to prevail in the spectacular final confrontation . the supporting cast includes geoffrey rush as ra , rufus sewell as urshu , courtney eaton as zaya , abbey lee as anat and goran d. kleut as anubis . alex proyas ( i , robot ) directs from a script by burk sharpless and matt sazama ( the last witch hunter , dracula untold ) .  gods of egypt has been given a february 26 release date , going up against 20th century fox 's eddie the eagle and open road films ' triple 9 . set to arrive on this date , but it was recently moved to august 12 , 2016 . while eddie the eagle has been getting a lot of critical buzz over the past few weeks , gods of egypt still may overtake it to become one of this year 's early box office hits .  gods of egypt brings gerard butler back to the " sword and sandals " realm , 9 years after he became a household name by portraying king leonidas in the epic blockbuster 300 . do you think gods of egypt can be just as successful as 300 ? or do you think it could be one of this year 's early flops ? check out the latest footage set to debut during super bowl 50 tomorrow .