Florida Powerball Winners Claim Share of Historic $1.58 Billion ...
http://abcnews.go.com/US/historic-powerball-jackpot-winners-forward-today/story?id=37002088

a florida couple who purchased one of the three winning powerball tickets for january 's historic jackpot came forward to claim their prize at a press conference today .  there were three winners of the $1.58 billion jackpot . one ticket was bought in tennessee , one in florida and one in california . split three ways , each winning ticket will be allotted roughly $528 million .  the winners , identified as married couple david kaltschmidt and maureen smith , opted to take their winnings in one lump sum of $328 million before taxes .  smith said that she picked the winning numbers and they were the same set of numbers she has been playing " for years , " though she does n't play regularly . the ticket was purchased at a publix in melbourne .  they both expressed concern about the downsides of winning , with smith saying it 's " scary " and that she 's been " dreading " the public acceptance today .  " i lost over 10 pounds too , it 's a lot of took many precautions ahead of claiming the ticket , not even telling their close relatives until this week even though they realized they won the lottery the morning after the winning numbers were announced .  when it comes to spending the money , kaltschmidt plans to retire after working as a manufacturing engineer for 34 years . he also wants to get a new truck since he says his current car is " falling apart . " smith joked that she 'd like a massage .  " of course , we 're going to take care of family , " she said , though they chose not to reveal whether they have any children .  the winners in tennessee , john and lisa robinson , came forward shortly after the winning numbers were drawn in january . they chose to take the lump sum payout of $328 million before taxes .  the california winner has yet to come forward .  get real-time updates as this story unfolds . to start , just " star " this story in abc news ' phone app . download abc .