Thousands of sharks swarming off Florida shore
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/thousands-of-sharks-swarming-off-florida-shore/

thousands of sharks swarming off florida shore  approximately 10,000 to 12,000 blacktip sharks are currently swimming off the florida coast , but while these numbers may seem menacing , shark researchers say it 's not unusual to see these animals -- visible as tiny dark spots in aerial photos and video -- in the area at this time of year .  these annual visitors are there to feed on fish and bask in warm coastal waters , according to stephen kajiura , a professor of biological sciences at florida atlantic university who conducts a survey of the migrating sharks every winter . and do n't panic -- these sharks typically have little interest in people , kajiura told live science .  kajiura began surveying the blacktip sharks in 2011 , counting them after they migrate to south florida during the winter . he said these numbers are typical during the peak of the blacktips ' winter sojurn in the area , which begins in mid-january and lasts until the end of march .  the sharks , which grow to about 6.5 feet ( near georgia and the carolinas , where they mate and birth their pups , kajiura said .  during their florida stay , these colonies of blacktip sharks , so-named for the distinctive black markings on the tips of their dorsal fins and tails , gather in coastal waters stretching from miami to jupiter inlet , covering a distance of about 80 miles ( 129 kilometers ) .  and the 10,000 to 12,000 estimate represents only the sharks that are visible in the narrow band of water about 660 feet ( 200 meters ) from the shore , kajiura said , and is " a gross underestimate " of how many sharks there are in total .  to conduct the surveys , kajiura mounts a high-definition video camera and a digital still camera to point out the window of a small plane as it flies adjacent to the beach . he later downloads the stills and footage to count all the visible sharks in the water .  " we see lots more sharks on the other side of the plane , so there 's a lot more out , " kajiura told live science . " we simply do n't know how big this school is , how far it extends off into deeper water , " he said .  but people have little to fear from these seasonal visitors , kajiura added . they feed on small , shiny fish , so swimmers should avoid wearing reflective watches or jewelry that might be mistaken for the sharks ' prey . and when the water is murky or when it 's dark out , a shark may be more likely to confuse light signals from human movement with prey activity .  otherwise , " they 're not curious types , " kajiura said , and as long as people exercise common sense and do n't harass the sharks , the blacktips will likely just avoid them completely .  and lucky beachgoers might even catch a glimpse of the colony without ever entering the water .  " you can literally sit on the beach and you can watch the blacktips jumping and spinning and splashing back into the water , " kajiura said . " they part of their diet , so you may as well go to the beach and enjoy the phenomenon . "