Soroptimist bingo, Code Green and secrets of City Park: BEN ...
http://www.nj.com/cumberland/index.ssf/2016/03/soroptimist_bingo_code_green_and_secrets_of_city_p.html

the column that wonders how it can snow in the morning and be completely gone by noon .  --  good morning !  --  jaime e. marine south jersey times  " a note from bingo chair madeline wolk : " well soroptimist bingo is over for 2016 . congratulations to all our winners . thank you to all our guests , to the members , the sponsors and everyone who donated . thank you . thank you and to my bingo committee ladies and our soroptimisters this event went so well because of you . i thank you for all for a great job . "  - peggy gentile-van meter  --  code blue could become a statewide program thanks to legislation that advanced through committee thursday .  for those not in the know , and if you 're reading this column how do you know not , code blue is a program that sets up temporary warming shelters for homeless and vulnerable individuals when it gets too cold out .  it 's saved lives and helped bring the trenton to talk about the importance of code blue .  he must have done a pretty good job .  --  " i have a suggestion for an event . it is like code blue , call it code green . spring is approaching and the inner city streets and alleys need quite a lot of work . the mill-town area has years of trash dumped in alleys behind homes and lots of graffiti . many have worked to help feed our neighbors . the city recently beautified and enhanced the city park enjoyed by all . we spent millions on splash park , dam and walks from taxes generated mostly from homeowners and renters living with and in this mess . can we as a community initiate a spring cleanup ? with taxes of the highest in the country people should not have to live like this . i hope the whole community bane together for the greater good . "  - fred goldschmidt  --  " try to imagine what the bridgeton city park looked like in 1786 . can you visualize the oak forest marshes . the clear blue pollution free river . from 1786 on the landscape would be forever changed and the cohansey river would never look the same again .  " development would take over the area . state permission was granted to build a dam and raceway to provide waterpower to a gristmill . the meadow and marsh , where the tide ended , would be covered with water sometime before 1800 . the land would change hands after 1800 and a second raceway would be dug to supply waterpower to a nail mill near the commerce street bridge .  " the nail mill would begin operation in 1815 . it began as a modest six-building enterprise , but its effect on bridgeton would last for almost 100 years . skilled workmen from up and down the east coast would make bridgeton their new home . disaster struck in 1824 and all but one building was destroyed by fire . newspapers from boston to charleston reported the catastrophe . undaunted , the owners rebuilt and over the next 50 years the mill expanded to include over 40 structures . .  " in 1893 mr. buck saw fit to lease the 1,100 acres from the mill . his intention was to use the land for ' pleasure or for commercial purposes . ' it was n't until 1906 that a formal park was formed . however , citizens have been using the woods , raceway and lake for recreation for years . usage most likely began in 1850 and by the 1880s boating , swimming and picnics were a common occurrence .  " there are many ' secrets ' about the park that are both comical and serous . what sparked the outrage over the nude bathing on the raceway ? where was a the boardwalk ? what was the cumberland county club ? where was the original city dump ? these and many other facts will be discussed .  " if you would like a preview some of the other areas in the park to be discussed check out the display case in the library lobby . on march 10 , 2015 , at 7 p.m. there will be exhibits , photographs and maps to help understand with others . hope to see you there . for more information , contact jim bergmann at 856-332-0008. "