Alabama Sports Hall of Fame honors Edgar Welden as 2016 ...
http://www.al.com/sports/index.ssf/2016/03/alabama_sports_hall_of_fame_ho.html

" a lot of people deserve it more than i do , " welden said , " but nobody appreciates it as much as i do . for someone who was n't a very good athlete , to be honored by the hall of fame is something that was never expected . that 's why i appreciate it so much . "  welden , who also serves as the chairman of the alabama sports hall of fame board of directors , will be honored with the class of 2016 inductees may 21 at the sheraton birmingham hotel .  past distinguished american sportsmen include former sec commissioners roy kramer and mike slive , former president george h.w. bush and comedian bob hope .  welden grew up in wetumpka , playing football , basketball and baseball , before earning a business degree at alabama . after graduation in 1965 , his business ventures in birmingham focused on real estate development , apartments , property management and mortgages .  as chairman/president of the bryant-jordan student-athlete scholarship program , he helps direct a program that annually awards .  in 2002 , welden founded the birmingham athletic partnership , a non-profit that helps fund equipment , education and facilities for sports and other extracurricular activities such as band and choir .  " sports , i think , is a motivator to kids to stay in school and get good grades , and team sports teach so many life lessons , " he said . " i think it 's so important to play team sports . "  an avid recreational tennis player , welden traveled to and played tennis in all 67 alabama counties in 2003 , while promoting the alabama sports hall of fame . when a tennis court was not available , he played in the street and once played in the hallway of a county courthouse .  in 1997 , he took a year off and travelled more than 120,000 miles and attended more than 250 sporting events in all 50 states -- from the world series to the super bowl to the x games to the iditarod .  welden has received countless honors , including induction into the alabama academy earned the alabama humanities award and won the university of alabama 's distinguished alumni award . he was inducted into the ahsaa hall of fame in 2007 .  welden was honored as the national governors ' association distinguished service to state government award in 1992 and was named alabama 's citizen of the year for 1987 by the alabama broadcasters association .  the alabama sports hall of fame surprised him at a recent board meeting with the news he 's the 2016 distinguished american sportsman .  " i told them they were out of order , but i was overruled , " he joked . " i told them i accepted and told them how much i appreciated it and how honored i am. "