Suicide of GOP -- or its rebirth?
http://www.wnd.com/2016/03/suicide-of-gop-or-its-rebirth/

WASHINGTON -- " If his poll numbers hold , Trump will be there six months from now when the Sweet 16 is cut to the Final Four , and he will likely be in the finals . "  My prediction , in July of 2015 , looks pretty good right now .  Herewith , a second prediction . Republican wailing over his prospective nomination aside , Donald Trump could beat Hillary Clinton like a drum in November .  Indeed , only the fear that Trump can win explains the hysteria in this city . Here is the Washington Post of March 18 : " As a moral question it is straightforward . The mission of any responsible Republican should be to block a Trump nomination and election . "  The Orwellian headline over that editorial : " To defend our democracy , the GOP must aim for a brokered convention . "  Beautiful . Defending democracy requires Republicans to cancel the democratic decision of the largest voter turnout of any primaries in American history . And this is now a moral imperative lectures , the Post celebrates democracy -- so long as the voters get it right .  Whatever one may think of the Donald , he has exposed not only how far out of touch our political elites are , but how insular is the audience that listens to our media elite .  Understandably , Trump 's rivals were hesitant to take him on , seeing the number he did on " little Marco , " " low energy " Jeb and " Lyin ' Ted . "  But the Big Media -- the Post , Wall Street Journal , New York Times -- have been relentless and ruthless .  Yet Trump 's strength with voters seemed to grow , pari passu , with the savagery of their attacks . As for National Review , the Weekly Standard and the accredited conservative columnists of the big op-ed pages , their hostility to Trump seems to rise , commensurate with Trump 's rising polls .  As the Wizard of Oz was exposed as a little man behind a curtain with a big megaphone , our media establishment is once was .  And the GOP ?  Those Republicans who assert that a Trump nomination would be a moral stain , a scarlet letter , the death of the party , they are most likely describing what a Trump nomination would mean to their own ideologies and interests .  Barry Goldwater lost 44 states in 1964 , and the GOP fell to less than a third of Congress . " The Republican Party is dead , " wailed the Rockefeller wing . Actually , it was n't . Only the Rockefeller wing was dead .  After the great Yellowstone fire in the summer of ' 88 , the spring of ' 89 produced astonishing green growth everywhere . The Yellowstone fire of the GOP was in ' 64 , burning up a million acres of dead wood , preparing the path for party renewal . Renewal often follows rebellion .  Republican strength today , on Capitol Hill and in state offices , is at levels unseen since Calvin Coolidge . Turnout in the GOP primaries has been running at levels unseen in American history , while in the Obama-Clinton race of 2008 .  This opportunity for Republicans should be a cause for rejoicing , not all this weeping and gnashing of teeth . If the party in Cleveland can bring together the Trump , Ted Cruz , Marco Rubio and John Kasich forces , the White House , Supreme Court and Congress are all within reach .  Consider . Clinton was beaten by Bernie Sanders in Michigan , and pressed in Ohio and Illinois , on her support for NAFTA and the trade deals of the Clinton-Bush-Obama era that eviscerated American manufacturing and led to the loss of millions of factory jobs and the stagnation of wages .  Sanders ' issues are Trump 's issues .  A Trump campaign across the industrial Midwest , Pennsylvania and New Jersey featuring attacks on Hillary Clinton 's support for NAFTA , the WTO , MFN for China -- and her backing of amnesty and citizenship for illegal immigrants , and for the Iraq and Libyan debacles -- is a winning hand .  Lately , 116 architects and subcontractors of the Bush I and II foreign They will not vote for , nor serve in a Trump administration .  Talking heads are bobbing up on cable TV to declare that if Trump is nominee , they will not vote for him and may vote for Clinton .  This is not unwelcome news . Let them go .  Their departure testifies that Trump is offering something new and different from the foreign policy failures this crowd did so much to produce .  The worst mistake Trump could make would be to tailor his winning positions on trade , immigration and intervention -- to court such losers .  While Trump should reach out to the defeated establishment of the party , he can not compromise the issues that brought him where he is , or embrace the failed policies that establishment produced . This would be throwing away his aces .  The Trump campaign is not a hostile takeover of the Republican Party . It is a rebellion of shareholders who are voting to throw out the corporate officers and board of directors that ran the company into the ground .  Only Buchanan 's commentaries in your email  BONUS : By signing up for Pat Buchanan 's weekly alerts , you will also be signed up for news and special offers from WND via email .  Name*  FirstLast  Email*  Where we will email your daily updates  Postal code*  A valid zip code or postal code is required  Click the button below to sign up for Pat Buchanan 's commentaries by email , and keep up to date with special offers from WND . You may change your email preferences at any time .