Cynthia Bailey Admits Her Marriage 'Is Not Good Right Now' - and ...
http://www.people.com/article/cynthia-bailey-real-housewives-atlanta-star-talks-marriage-struggles-peter-thomas

Bailey , 48 , stopped by Reality Checked with Amy Phillips on Bravo head Andy Cohen 's Sirius XM channel , Radio Andy , Thursday and shared some sad news about the state of her union .  When Phillips mentioned that Bailey and Thomas seemed to be in a good place as of RHOA 's finale , Bailey clarified , " That 's filmed quite some months ago before you guys see that -- that 's not real-time , so at the finale , what you guys saw , we were definitely in a better place . "  She continued , " I will say that Peter are not in a great place right now . Honestly , I do n't know what 's going to happen with us right now , we 're still trying to figure it out . But , you know , it 's complicated . "  She noted , " We 've been married five years , we 've been together for eight . We 're the only couple on The Real Housewives of Atlanta that actually was married been married outside of the show , and I do n't think that it 's helped us a lot . ... Maybe if we were married three years before we went on the show , that would have been better . I just have nothing to compare my marriage to outside of the show , and you know it 's just been difficult -- I mean , the wedding was difficult , everything about our marriage has been difficult . "  They had a particularly rough patch in season 6 when Thomas told Bailey : " We ca n't continue like this ... Somebody needs an escape route . "  " I moved to Atlanta because I was completely in love with you ... but this roller coaster ride is exhausting , " responded Bailey . " I was not depressed when I met you . "  Bailey told Phillips on Thursday , " I never said that we were perfect . I do n't know what 's going to happen . I usually have all the answers for all the questions , but when it comes to . I just know that it 's not good right now . "  The second installment of The Real Housewives of Atlanta reunion airs Sunday at 8 p.m . ET on Bravo .