Larry Sanders, Garry Shandling, and the Refuge of Comedy
http://www.mtv.com/news/2799372/larry-sanders-garry-shandling-and-the-refuge-of-comedy/

Larry Sanders , Garry Shandling , and the Refuge of Comedy  Comedy is a refuge for unhappy people . At its best , the genre lets you cover up with a blanket in the dark and be around people who are not going to yell at you or call you a loser or rub your failure in your eyes . Here are people who want to make you laugh . And there 's security in that . It 's calming . Being alive means being around people who are meaner than hell , and comedy can have the nobility to say " all right , let 's make somebody 's day better for half an hour . "  That 's the real appeal , beyond the superficial entertainment value , of something like Cheers , or Sanford and Son . These shows do n't try to teach you , they 're just taking you someplace nicer than you were before . And they can do it in an aspirational way . Where science fiction or pure fantasy asks you to live in an alternate universe It can say , " Here are real people , and they do n't have to be mean to you . This is a version of people that 's better than the one you knew . "  I was 14 when I started watching The Larry Sanders Show -- created by and starring the great Garry Shandling , who passed suddenly on Thursday at the age of 66 -- during its first syndication run outside pay cable . I was a miserable kid , constantly fighting off widescreen grayscale loneliness and alienation , and I was desperate for what I realize now was just normal human interaction and emotion . On paper , I should have hated the show , because it looks and smells like a meta-comedy about a rich guy in Los Angeles with a pretty successful network talk show . Just utter L.A. inside baseball , nothing but Ventura Boulevard and canyons and the 405 at rush hour ; Entourage before Entourage . I should have hated it . It checked every box on my list of TV writing pet peeves .  But I did n't up taping the entire run , in order , on a VCR , because DVD recorders -- the DVR was still many years away -- were still too expensive . Somewhere in the purgatory of my father 's shed , I still have a carefully labeled box containing all episodes of the show on TDK cassettes .  I watched it over and over . I memorized not just the words but the beat and melody of the words . I know the damn blocking on some of my favorite scenes . It changed my whole concept of what comedy was allowed to do , and what writers were allowed to do , and I probably would n't be working without it .  HBO  The reason is this : The Larry Sanders Show certainly looked like a behind-the-scenes comedy about comedy , a self-reflexive intellectual exercise that only clicks with people who know what it 's like to fly from Los Angeles to New York and understand why TV tapings are ultimately sad . But it 's not . That 's just the frame . That was the easiest sitcom about real human emotion , the real inner workings of people . It had an emotional intelligence I had no idea could exist in comedy .  Before Larry Sanders , as much as I liked sitcoms , I thought every player in the idiom was a stock character , a variant of a type , and had one of about five possible punch lines to a given setup . But here was something where a setup would take place , and the characters would respond like real people .  Extreme example : Hank Kingsley ( Jeffrey Tambor ) , Larry 's often-buffoonish sidekick , is meeting the Wu-Tang Clan . In any sitcom before Larry Sanders , the only punch line to that setup , which is , essentially , " the world 's most uncool uncle meets the world 's coolest musicians , " is " Hey , you fellas are rap singers , so I thought I could sing you a rap ! "  But Larry Sanders never fell on stock jokes . So Hank tries to ingratiate himself to them like a real person honest-to-God uncool uncle . The result is a lethal jumble of racism and bewildered hideous ignorance . He calls Ol ' Dirty Bastard " Dirty Old Bitch " and claims he hates cops entirely on the basis of his parking tickets . The scene is so uncomfortable you 'll want to scream , and you 'll want to scream because it feels like it 's really happening . There is no artifice . This is a real mistake a real person could make .  Moments like that gave the show a sense of danger . Without the artifice of sitcoms that came before , without stock players , stock gags , there were no safety nets . Any bad thing was capable of happening . Characters could break down , try to kill themselves , fail in a way that was n't reversible by next week 's episode . And it was unafraid to go to these places . As funny as Larry Sanders could be , what made it one of the greatest achievements ever in television was how much real pathos it found . It could be downright resonate . Funny moments weigh more when they are surrounded by the real human condition , which is one of constantly staving off sadness and hiding vulnerability and dread . Lots of shows would go on to do that , most notably The Office , alongside the overwhelming majority of tone-blending " prestige " comedies -- from Louie to Transparent ( which , perhaps not coincidentally , co-stars Tambor ) to Togetherness -- now on the air . But none of them would exist without Larry Sanders .  The triumph of Shandling 's career is that he did n't need to do this show . He had enormous skill as a stand-up . He was a successful sitcom writer . He could have made a great conventional sitcom -- though , years before Sanders , he created and starred in the groundbreaking , convention-subverting It 's Garry Shandling 's Show -- and he was a regular guest host on Johnny Carson 's Tonight Show , where he was even offered the opportunity to make that a permanent fill-in gig . ( It goes without saying he would have been better . ) But he did n't take any of these paths before him . He made something with soul instead .  And this is not the sentimental overrating of a recently deceased performer 's work . Garry Shandling is on record about his ambitions for the show . In Judd Apatow 's interview collection Sick in the Head , he spells it out :  " When we were doing Larry Sanders , it was all about life and the question of self and what you were bringing to it . ... And what people are always covering up -- the tension between what they 're covering emotionally in life and what 's really going on inside them . What you really want to write is what they 're covering ; otherwise you end up writing the exposition -- which is just words . "  A couple moments jumped out at me when I got the call yesterday and learned Garry Shandling had died . They were both from the Larry Sanders finale , and they both underline its emotional depth . The first is when Larry has ended still there , the lights are still on him , he 's on a stool . His producer , Artie ( Rip Torn ) , comes over to him and says it was a great show . They embrace . Then Larry chokes out the words " I ca n't get off the stool . I ca n't move my legs . " It 's a pitch-perfect depiction of a panic attack , and that just was n't done in comedy at that time , and if it was , it was melodramatic . This was real .  The other moment comes just a bit later . The studio is empty . Everyone is gone . Larry 's walking around absently , missing what is now his old life . Artie is sitting in the back drinking booze out of a coffee cup . And they talk about their plans and their regrets , quietly internalizing the fact that the active part of their adulthood is over . They 're old men now . Then Hank shows up . And this is the perfect example of what Shandling was talking at .  Hank is superficially furious that his segment got cut . He seems prepared to kill somebody . And he delivers a fire-and-brimstone monologue most people ca n't walk back .  " What is my problem ? I spent the last 10 years being the butt of your jokes . The little fucking dog at the end of the couch ! And you know , it 's my fault , because I smiled and I let it happen because this face was being seen by millions of people every night and there was lots of money and there was lots of pussy ! "  Larry tries to defuse with a joke .  " More money than pussy . "  Hank lunges at him , and this is not a comedy about comedy anymore . This is Greek tragedy .  " No more ! " roars Hank . " I swear to God , no more , one more remark and I , I , I swear , I 'll fucking choke you with my hands ! "  He tries to walk off , He leaves , backs his car into a dumpster , and comes back in tears . They all reconcile and agree to go to the Smoke House for drinks . Hank and Artie leave , but Larry stays behind a second , surveying the darkened stage , aware that his set will be torn down by morning and thrown into the garbage . Any other show would have tried to arrange a more cinematic happy ending . But this is an honest happy ending . None of these men is happy , but they 've found acceptance , and that 's a more honest victory .