The movie finds no joy in itself - 'Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice'
http://www.providencejournal.com/zz/shareable/20160325/movie-finds-no-joy-in-itself---batman-v-superman-dawn-of-justice

Though " Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice " will most likely make a lot of money this weekend at the box office , just know that movie critics did n't like it all too much . So before you throw down your money on the movie this weekend , let us tell you the problems that critics had with it .  Comment  By Jason Guerrasio Business Insider  providencejournal.com  By Jason Guerrasio Business Insider  Posted Mar. 25 , 2016 at 2:00 PM  By Jason Guerrasio Business Insider  Posted Mar. 25 , 2016 at 2:00 PM  Though " Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice " will most likely make a lot of money this weekend at the box office ( projections of about $160 million ) , most critics did n't enjoy the 2-1/2-hour battle between Batman ( Ben Affleck ) and Superman ( Henry Cavill ) .  A big reason for that ? A lot of the movie does n't deliver on what the title promises . But there are also a lot of other issues review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes , this was not how the film 's studio , Warner Bros. , was hoping to launch one of its biggest movies of the year , which will be followed by other franchise entries from DC Comics .  So before you throw down your money on the movie this weekend , let us tell you the problems that critics had with it .  The movie finds no joy in itself .  Warner Bros .  Taking a page from the " Dark Knight " franchise , director Zack Snyder attempts to make a movie that is very , very serious . And critics did n't buy it .  " There 's zero humor or self-deprecation , as there was in Joss Whedon 's pitch-perfect ' The Avengers ' ; no performance of unlikely depth , like the one Heath Ledger pulled off in ' The Dark Knight ' ; and no animating spirit of decency , a trait Christopher Reeve 's Superman had in spades , " Time Out New York writes .  And Indiewire points out a major disappointment of our Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice ' to justify its title , and another 30 to establish it 's a red herring . "  The Hollywood Reporter questions any collaboration between the two comic-book characters going forward : " It 's hard to say what ought to happen between Batman and Superman in the future , even , indeed , if they actually should share the screen again . "  This version of Superman is n't likable .  Warner Bros .  Page 2 of 3 - Henry Cavill as Superman .  This is Henry Cavill 's second time playing the character , following 2013 's " Man of Steel , " and many critics have been turned off by a Kal-El who seems more jaded than how we 've seen the character portrayed in the past .  " I would have given anything to watch Clark Kent open up his shirt , to reveal that big ' S , ' then go off to save the day as the music swells . But this Superman is n't that Superman , " Uproxx writes . stuck with a character who spends far too much time reacting to others , whether it 's to Batman 's taunts or the romantic overtures of Lois Lane ( Amy Adams ) . "  Director Zack Snyder is more interested in blowing things up than telling a story .  Warner Bros .  Snyder , right , with Ben Affleck .  The direction by Snyder , responsible for previous comic book adaptations like " 300 " and " The Watchmen , " is getting a lot of the blowback . Many critics felt he was too focused on the visuals in " Batman v Superman . "  " Although director Zack Snyder is a great visualist , all he has here is pretty pictures and giant ( and confusing ) action sequences , " NJ.com said .  " Snyder is not without skills , or ideas , " the Chicago Tribune writes , " but when a critic finds himself at odds with almost every aspect of a director 's visual approach to material like this , material like this becomes pretty joyless . "  .  Warner Bros .  Though critics universally praise the performance by Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman and many believe Affleck does a good job as Batman , something about the film 's length and lack of a coherent plot led to the vicious reviews .  Page 3 of 3 - " There 's a lot that 's dumb in ' Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice , ' but the dumbest thing is right there in the title , " The Guardian wrote . " I could n't really figure out why these two guys were fighting . The film spends time setting up Superman as an unwanted alien ... but I feel that if anyone is going to understand the nuances of being a superhero , it would be Bruce Wayne . "  " The film is too long by half and yet it never finds time to do any character work , focusing instead on relentlessly moving forward its over-complicated , unmotivated plot , " Birth Movies Death said .  And The New York Times believes " Batman v Superman " sums up that produce movies like this one , and the ambitious hacks who sign up to make them , have no evident motive beyond their own aggrandizement . Entertainment is less the goal than the byproduct , and as the commercial reach of superpower franchises grows , their creative exhaustion becomes ever more apparent . "