What happened to local minister kicked out of Presbyterian church ...
http://www.wcpo.com/news/insider/whatever-happened-to-local-minister-kicked-out-of-presbyterian-church-for-marrying-same-sex-couple

what happened to local minister kicked out of presbyterian church for marrying same-sex couples ?  kevin eigelbach , wcpo contributor  7:00 am , mar 26 , 2016  p margin-bottom : 0.08in ; the rev. steve van kuiken is shown preaching during a recent worship service at lake street church in the chicago suburb of evanston , where he serves as pastor . photo provided  copyright 2016 scripps media , inc . all rights reserved . this material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed .  cincinnati -- on sunday , christians around the world will celebrate easter , the day they believe jesus christ came alive after being put to death by the religious authorities of his day .  they will celebrate , too , at lake street church in the chicago suburb of evanston , illinois , where the rev. steve van kuiken is the pastor . traditionally at the end of the easter service , the congregation releases helium-filled balloons that float to the ceiling of the gothic-style sanctuary , and slowly descend to the the way most congregations celebrate easter , but lake street is n't like most churches , and van kuiken is n't like most christian ministers .  when he was the pastor of mount auburn presbyterian church in cincinnati in 1983 , he made national headlines when the local presbyterian governing body defrocked him because he had performed marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples .  insiders can learn what happened to van kuiken next and why he ended up in illinois .  there 's more to the story when you become an insider . wcpo insider 's membership is an additional benefit on top of everything you can get for free on wcpo.com . we created an entire digital organization dedicated to bringing you exclusive access to in-depth stories that you ca n't get anywhere else , handpicked events , and incredible savings on things you love to do . to find out more click here .  what happened to local minister kicked out of presbyterian church for marrying same-sex couples ?  kevin eigelbach , wcpo contributor  7:00 am , mar 26 , 2016  p margin-bottom preaching during a recent worship service at lake street church in the chicago suburb of evanston , where he serves as pastor . photo provided  copyright 2016 scripps media , inc . all rights reserved . this material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed .  cincinnati -- on sunday , christians around the world will celebrate easter , the day they believe jesus christ came alive after being put to death by the religious authorities of his day .  they will celebrate , too , at lake street church in the chicago suburb of evanston , illinois , where the rev. steve van kuiken is the pastor . traditionally at the end of the easter service , the congregation releases helium-filled balloons that float to the ceiling of the gothic-style sanctuary , and slowly descend to the floor during the following week .  it 's not the way most congregations celebrate easter , but lake street is n't like most churches , and van kuiken is n't like most christian ministers .  when he was the pastor of mount auburn presbyterian when the local presbyterian governing body defrocked him because he had performed marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples .  the presbytery of cincinnati , a group of 86 local churches that included mount auburn , voted to remove van kuiken as pastor of the church . almost a year later , a higher presbyterian church court , the permanent judicial commission of the synod of the covenant , reversed that decision and reinstated him as a minister .  the vindication came a little late for van kuiken , who had already accepted a separation agreement from mount auburn , which he said included about a year 's worth of pay .  at that time , the presbyterian church usa permitted " holy union " ceremonies between same-sex couples , but nothing , such as an exchange of rings , that might cause people to confuse them with a real marriage ceremony . in those holy union ceremonies , ministers were not allowed to imply that they were blessing sexual intimacy , either .  " it 's a travesty , " van kuiken told the cincinnati post at the that 's the case ? "  after he left mount auburn , van kuiken served as pastor for a small group of former mount auburn members that called themselves the gathering . they met initially at one another 's houses , then at the former st. george catholic church building in clifton , then in an over-the-rhine storefront .  the congregation could only pay him for part-time work , so he took a job working in a halfway house in over-the-rhine for former federal prisoners . after about seven years of doing both jobs , he said , it began to wear on him , and he started looking for a full-time pastoral job .  meanwhile , the gathering continued to grow , and in 2007 became part of the united church of christ . last may , the congregation merged with northern hills unitarian church at 460 fleming road , and the two congregations became the gathering at northern hills .  van kuiken loved living and working in tucson , he said , but it was a bit far from his grown daughters in cincinnati and also live nearby .  three years ago , he took the job in evanston because it was closer to home , he said , but also because the congregation felt like a better fit for his beliefs . it 's officially part of the american baptist churches usa , which he said is the most liberal baptist denomination , he said , but " it 's way to the left " of any other american baptist church .  visitors would recognize sunday worship as being rooted in the christian tradition , he said , with readings from the bible , organ music and some familiar hymns . but they would also hear some buddhist or hindu readings , he said , because many of the church 's 200 or so members also identify with other religious traditions .  the congregation also believes strongly in working for social justice , he said , and the church has been " welcoming and affirming " toward gay and lesbian members since 1993 .  since the pcusa defrocked van kuken , much has changed in that denomination and in attitudes about 2015 , the pcusa agreed to change its definition of marriage from a covenant between a man and woman to one between two people . in june , in the case of obergefell v. hodges , the supreme court made same-sex marriage legal in all 50 states .  it surprised van kuiken how quickly things changed , he said , and he thinks that what he did helped move the needle a bit in the presbyterian church . he 's proud to have played a small role in changing society 's attitudes , and the rapidity of the change gives him hope for other social justice struggles .  " one thing i 've learned is that it 's not hopeless . it can change , " he said . " all these causes we 're working for now , whether it 's racial justice , or universal health care , any kind of thing , we 're working for victories that we ca n't even imagine will happen . it 's a very hopeful thing . "  copyright 2016 scripps media , inc . all rights reserved . , or redistributed.