UC team in the finals of world contest that could revolutionize high ...
http://www.wcpo.com/news/insider/uc-team-in-the-finals-of-world-contest-that-could-revolutionize-high-speed-travel

uc team in the finals of world contest that could revolutionize high-speed travel  copyright 2016 scripps media , inc . all rights reserved . this material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed .  cincinnati -- sixty university of cincinnati students have more at stake heading into summer than how well they do on their end-of-the-year exams .  they 're members of hyperloop uc , a team competing in a world contest to create a design concept for what could be the future of high-speed transportation .  the team is one of 30 from around the world to advance far enough in the contest to be invited to compete in its final round this summer .  hailed as the future fifth form of transit -- after planes , trains , boats and cars -- hyperloop is a concept developed by spacex and tesla motors founder elon musk in 2013 to transport 20 to 30 people via a pod propelled through a 12-foot diameter tube using solar energy and traveling at high subsonic speeds .  if hyperloop becomes in only 30 minutes .  insiders can learn more about hyperloop uc and their road to the finals .  there 's more to the story when you become an insider . wcpo insider 's membership is an additional benefit on top of everything you can get for free on wcpo.com . we created an entire digital organization dedicated to bringing you exclusive access to in-depth stories that you ca n't get anywhere else , handpicked events , and incredible savings on things you love to do . to find out more click here .  uc team in the finals of world contest that could revolutionize high-speed travel  copyright 2016 scripps media , inc . all rights reserved . this material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed .  cincinnati -- sixty university of cincinnati students have more at stake heading into summer than how well they do on their end-of-the-year exams .  they 're members of hyperloop uc , a team competing in a world contest to create a design concept for what could be the future of high-speed transportation . provided by hyperloop uc  the team is one of 30 from around the world to advance far enough in the contest to be invited to compete in its final round this summer .  hailed as the future fifth form of transit -- after planes , trains , boats and cars -- hyperloop is a concept developed by spacex and tesla motors founder elon musk in 2013 to transport 20 to 30 people via a pod propelled through a 12-foot diameter tube using solar energy and traveling at high subsonic speeds .  if hyperloop becomes a reality , people could travel from cincinnati to chicago in only 30 minutes .  last june , spacex announced the hyperloop pod competition , inviting students and corporations to design and build a working hyperloop .  dhaval shiyani , a 25-year-old master 's student in aerospace engineering at uc , had been interested in the hyperloop concept ever since he read a white paper written by musk on the topic in 2013 . when spacex announced the competition , shiyani built a team of seven or eight uc students to create .  in january , 124 teams from 20 countries -- out of the initial 1,200 applicants to the spacex hyperloop pod design competition from around the world -- were asked to showcase their designs in the spacex hyperloop pod design weekend in texas . hyperloop uc was chosen as one of 30 teams to advance to the final round this summer in hawthorne , california , in which teams will demonstrate their hyperloop concept on a 1-mile test track .  now that the design weekend is over , the team is " at a crucial stage where we have to test all the systems so that all the sub-systems in the simulated design actually work in the competition , " said rohan nachnolkar , a 22-year-old master 's student in mechanical engineering at uc and the structural dynamics lead for hyperloop uc .  " the reason we have to do extensive testing is because this has never been done before , " shiyani said . " one thing people fail to realize is that this is a completely new transportation system . none of the systems that are conditions that we are testing at , so the only way we can make sure they work is to test . "  for the competition , hyperloop uc 's systems have to work at a speed of 250 mph , but the actual , full-scale hyperloop will travel at a speed of 760 mph .  in addition to being fast , shiyani said , hyperloop transportation also is a beneficial alternative to today 's high-speed travel because it produces and consumes clean energy -- instead of polluting the environment -- and because it 's convenient .  " boarding a plane is a lot of hassle , " he said .  sid thatham , a 25-year-old master 's student in chemical engineering at uc who is also working toward his mba and serves as the director of operations for hyperloop uc said he wanted to join the team because it 's exciting to be a part of a project that could add to ohio 's fame as the birthplace of aviation -- by making it the birthplace of hyperloop as well .  " i personally want to going to be the next big thing , " he said . " like elon musk himself said , ' i can either be part of it or watch it happen . ' "  hyperloop uc needs monetary support , technical support and publicity to help with its last push to win the competition , shiyani noted .  monetarily speaking , " whatever we get from the community will be going into the project , " he said , adding that hyperloop uc also needs help from the manufacturing community .  " we have to build systems in less than two or three months , which is a pretty steep timeline for any manufacturing industry , so we need all the help we can get to manufacture the systems , " shiyani said .  in terms of publicity , hyperloop uc 's members want to make the people of ohio -- and the people of cincinnati , in particular -- feel like they own the project , so they want to raise awareness of what the project is . they also plan to visit local high schools like hyperloop .  going for the win  although the competition was originally open to students and corporations , it 's evolved into a primarily student-based event , shiyani said , although he notes there is one non-university team that qualified for the final round .  " ( they ) have done a great job , and they 're the toughest competitors , " he said .  if hyperloop uc wins , shiyani said spacex has n't released many details yet on exactly what it will receive , although he said he does know there would be prizes , international coverage and plenty of potential for future expansion .