Only three of top 50 free agents remain unsigned
http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2016/03/27/only-three-of-top-50-free-agents-remain-unsigned/

Only three of the top 50 free agents remain unsigned  Posted by Zac Jackson on March 27 , 2016 , 5:45 PM EDT  Getty Images  Just about all the big-ticket shopping is done .  With NFL teams turning their full attention to the draft , the first phase of free agency is all but over . Following some notable transactions last week , just three players on the PFT Hot 100 Free Agent List remain unsigned : No. 25 Ryan Fitzpatrick , No. 33 Reggie Nelson and No. 45 Nick Fairley , who 's reportedly getting close to a deal with the Saints .  Only a couple major Pro Day workouts remain on the calendar , so teams are turning their attention toward private workouts and the final round of pre-draft meetings . There still could be a signing or two pop up on the transaction wire , but sometimes players still available after the first wave of movement choose to wait , thinking they 'll have more leverage or more options following the draft .  This year 's draft is in a bit of a staredown , with the Broncos looming as a possible contender . Nelson will have multiple options , too , though one of them probably disappeared last week when the Titans signed former Cardinals safety Rashad Johnson . It 's not just the first wave that went fast ; with the Cowboys having signed running back Alfred Morris last week , players 51-66 on the Hot 100 list all have new contracts .  How was Ronnie Hillman not in the top 50 ? I did n't look at the list before I wrote this comment but I 'm sure he 's better than some of the players that were at the bottom-end of the top 50 . For example , Nick Fairley . Are you kidding me ? Hillman 100% has more value than him , IMO . Yes , Hillman is a change of pace back , but he can provide homerun-type plays and carry the load for a few games if the starter goes down .  intrafinesse says:Mar 27 , 2016 5:55 PM  Kind of sad when a back up level QB .  If you watch the Jets games last year , he got huge help from Brandon Marshall . Fitzpatrick could lob it up and Marshall hauled it in . If Fitzpatrick had just an average WR , his stats would have been much worse .  " How was Ronnie Hillman not in the top 50 ? I did n't look at the list before I wrote this comment but I 'm sure he 's better than some of the players that were at the bottom-end of the top 50 . For example , Nick Fairley . Are you kidding me ? Hillman 100% has more value than him , IMO . Yes , Hillman is a change of pace back , but he can provide homerun-type plays and carry the load for a few games if the starter goes down . "  Reggie Nelson is free one year post-aftermath of the Aaron Hernandez trial -- which brought up Nelson 's involvement in a college shooting of two men -- allegedly . He is on the wrong side of 30 , but has been playing well . Has his n't sign him , but it looks like it may cost him in the end .  The year before on the Texans Fitz had 17 TDs and 8 picks before getting hurt . 12 games . So over 16 that would be a pretty good season . 25 TDs and 12 picks maybe . How did Brandon Marshall help him that year ? Plus , Decker had 12 TDs , and those were n't lobs either . Most were post patterns in the middle of the end zone . Tight throws necessary . You can find a lot of receivers that are considered top guys that had less than 12 TDs , and Decker was the second target for Fitz .  Nelson would be a good fit in Pittsburgh on a one or two year deal . Of course the fact that they are division rivals make the extremely unlikely to happen but it would be a great fit for the player and the team  Fits played good last year , minus the last game . They should give him a fair one year contract for $10-$12 mil  tedmurph says:Mar 27 , 2016 6:58 PM  Fitzpatrick had a career year last year . 3900 yrds , 31 TDs , 19 INTs , 88 rating . He 's absolutely a starting level QB . Not a superstar , but a middle of the pack guy . With Bowles and their personnel on D , they have a shot to make some noise this yr . Shoulda made the playoffs last yr . If they go from Fitz to GSmith , IMO , they go from having a shot to no shot .  On another note , the Jags did a nice job in free agency . Giants spent a lot of money . Meh . I think the Raiders did a nice job too . Watch out for the Jags and the Raiders this year , as sleeper teams .  Fitzpatrick should curb the ego and be thankful to be in the NFL . He 's a journeyman veteran qb that happened to have a big year . Whoopedy doo . Jets should give him a one year deal to prove he can do it again intrafinesse says : Mar 27 , 2016 5:55 PM Kind of sad when a back up level QB ( Ryan Fitzpatrick ) is a top 50 free agent .  If you watch the Jets games last year , he got huge help from Brandon Marshall . Fitzpatrick could lob it up and Marshall hauled it in . If Fitzpatrick had just an average WR , his stats would have been much worse .  Ryan Fitzpatrick may be better than Geno Smith , but he 's not a starting quality QB .  -- -  Unfortunately , in today 's NFL , Fitz is actually a starting QB . Can you honestly name 32 QBs better than him ? And that just goes to show you why QBs like Osweiler are getting paid . Because there just are n't enough even average QBs out there to field one for each NFL team . And today 's NFL is a QB driven NFL , so even backup quality QBs are in the top 25 . Because Fitz may not be that good , but he 's a better option than voted to oblivion , and that 's understandable . He was not a top 50 FA . But the fact that people are upvoting that he sucks , just shows that not many of you watched the Broncos this year . Hillman is definitely not a true #1 , but he is a decent change of pace back .  stoneydog1000 says:Mar 27 , 2016 8:35 PM  Why is " nhpats " so infatuated with the Bengals and Andy Dalton ? Do the Patriots bore you ?  cont ... On Hillman . Chris Ivory was n't much better than Hillman , and he was the AFC 's leading rusher . Give Hillman the same amount of carries and his numbers would 've been almost identical to Ivory , except Hillman would 've had more touchdowns . Look it up , dude definitely did n't suck  Its not as hard as you think to be a top 50 FA . First of all , you need to be a FA .... most players that easily would be near the top of that list , teams refuse to let them between 10 and 50 and its pretty good size gap .  Then when you play premium spot like QB it drives up your value , just like playing Kicker or Punter , hurts it . Fitz is holding the cards , he knows he could be the starter in NY or Denver , so why not put the pressure on him , he knows this is probably his last contract so he is trying to maximize it , especially when he is looking around at players like Cousins and Oswieler getting big money yes those players have upside , but a starter in the NFL now after the rookie contract gets 15 mil .  Fitzpatrick .... ugh ..... If the Jets had n't gotten Petty for Discount Store prices , they would put more stock in him and he would be much further along . He needs to be somewhere he can develop behind one of the Stud QB 's .  I am surprised Denver has n't made a run @ Fitz , they do n't have much more time with their present team  boltergeist19 says:Mar 27 two ways after the draft . Fits will sign with an incentive laden contract for 1 maybe 2 years or just in case there is trade talk with Wilkerson and movement with some other teams backups like Glennon , or McClown , or Hoyer or if they draft another project behind Geno and Bryce and convince everyone the team is going into camp with a QB battle and the best one will be there QB . Which means they will have screwed up team chemistry and Brandon Marshall will flip out and use the retire card and it will be a mess with 3 guys who do n't know where any stand during the QB round robin season of qbs . It will turn out like Houston 's problems with qbs last year . They all will start games and be up and down 1 good game 1 bad then they go to the next guy 1 good 1 bad then they finally give up at 3-6 and explain they are going with the rookie ( insert here ) for the rest of the year which means a lost season and mgmt when they can push the Patriots for the division . Never get teams that do this .  Nelson will get a call when someone and it always happens where a knee gets hacked or someone tweaks an achilles ' tendon . But it wo n't be more then league minimum with incentives . I am thinking most GMs think his year last year was due to a good supporting cast and wo n't repeat his performance coupled with age to be cautious here .  And Hardy will get picked up by a team on another 1 year deal , by Seattle , Buffalo if they can find $ , or back with Dallas . If it 's Dallas , Garret will tell the media he is impressed with how he has come in humbled and a great teammate and is working very hard to put the past behind him and of course " prove all the doubters wrong . " With his play . Another words " total spin , " from the comment he made a few weeks back , " Greg Hardy is a free agent a 33 year old QB 11 seasons and 6 different teams to have his best season .  Ryan , Cutler and Stafford all had a better QB rating and completion % . 2 of the 3 threw for more yards ... all 3 are younger and already signed . None of the 3 are a career journeyman . Ask Tampa how they fell about throwing money at Josh McCown .  You can debate if Matt Ryan , Jay Cutler and Matt Stafford are " franchise " QBs but there is no debate about Ryan Fitzpatrick .  I am not too surprised Nelson is n't signed , he is going to be 33 yrs old by the 3 or 4th game of the season , while he did have a great season , the 07 class is winding down .. you have players like Megatron , Lynch , Patrick Willis retired .  AP , Joe Thomas , and Greg Olsen are all getting up there in age , he may be like a James Jones where if someone gets hurt you may bring him in , but other  I think we should all take a moment to thank the Houston Texans and the Philadelphia Eagles for the fact that we now live in a world where Ryan Fitzpatrick thinks he 's worth $18m a year .  If a completely unproven backup who got benched for a 40 year old who could n't throw the ball 15 yards down the field and a rag armed china doll who ca n't stay on the field and has never won anything can get that much , why should n't he ?  Ca n't really blame him . He has , in fact , shown better results over a larger sample size than both of those guys put together .