Notification of the Annual General Meeting of Byggmax Group AB ...
http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160404006770/en/Notification-Annual-General-Meeting-Byggmax-Group-AB

Notification of the Annual General Meeting of Byggmax Group AB ( Publ )  Shareholders of Byggmax Group AB ( publ ) ( STO:BMAX ) , Corporate Registration Number 556656-3531 , ( the " Company " ) are hereby notified of the Annual General Meeting ( AGM ) to be held on Tuesday , May 10 , 2016 , at 10:00 a.m. at Coor Alviks Strand Konferens , Gustavslundsv ? gen 141 in Stockholm .  Notification , etc .  Shareholders who wish to participate at the AGM must :  * both be listed in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Tuesday , May 3 , 2016 , and  * notify the Company of their intention to attend the AGM , no later than at 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday , May 3 , 2016 , to the address Byggmax Group AB ( publ ) , Box 6063 , SE-171 06 Solna , Sweden ( Labeled " Annual General Meeting " ) , by telephone +46 ( 0 ) 8 514 930 60 or by e-mail to info@byggmax.se .  When name , personal ID/corporate registration number ( or equivalent ) , address , daytime telephone number , shareholding in Byggmax , the names of any advisers ( maximum two ) and , when applicable , the name of a proxy or legal representative .  Trustee registered shares  Shareholders who have registered their shares in the name of a trustee must request registration of the shares in their own names ( through the agency of the nominee ) in the register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB in order to participate at the AGM . Registration of shareholders should be completed not later than Tuesday , May 3 , 2016 . The shareholder should notify the trustee well in advance of this date . Such registration may be temporary .  Proxies  Shareholders who intend to be represented by proxy must issue a dated power of attorney for the proxy . If the power of attorney is issued by a legal entity , an attested copy of the certificate of registration or its equivalent for the legal entity must be enclosed with the notice of participation . The period of to five years from the date of issue . An original of the power of attorney and , when applicable , the certificate of registration should be submitted to the Company at the above address , in good time , prior to the AGM . The Company provides proxy forms on request and these are also available from the Company 's website , www.byggmax.com .  Number of shares and votes  The Company had a total of 60,737,045 shares at the date of issue of the notification . The total number of votes in the Company is 60,737,045 . The Company does not own any treasury shares .  Proposed agenda  1 . Opening of the Meeting and election of the Chairman for the Meeting  2 . Preparation and approval of the voting list  3 . Approval of the agenda  4 . Election of one ( 1 ) or two ( 2 ) persons to verify the minutes  5 . Determination of whether the Meeting has been duly convened  6 . Presentation of the Annual Report and the Auditors ' Report , as well Report  7 . Address by the President  8 . Resolution regarding the adoption of the income statement and balance sheet as well as the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet  9 . Resolution regarding the appropriation of the Company 's profit in accordance with the adopted Balance Sheet , and the record date for the dividend  10 . Resolution regarding discharge from liability of the Board of Directors and the President  11 . Determination of the number of Board members , deputy Board members and auditors  12 . Determination of fees for members of the Board of Directors and auditors  13 . Election of Board members , Chairman of the Board and auditors  14 . Resolution on policies regulating the appointment of the Nomination Committee and its work  15 . Resolution on guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives 16 . Close of the Meeting  Proposals for resolution  Item 1 -- Election of Chairman for the Meeting  The Nomination Committee proposes the election of Anders Moberg as Chairman of the Annual General Meeting .  Item 9 -- accordance with the adopted balance sheet , and the record date for the dividend .  The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 2.14 per share . The proposed record date for payment of the dividend is Thursday , May 12 , 2016 . If the AGM resolves in accordance with the motion , the dividend is scheduled to be distributed by Euroclear Sweden AB on Tuesday , May 17 , 2016 .  Items 11 -- 14  The Nomination Committee , comprising Cecilia Marlow Chairman of the Nomination Committee , representing Nordea Investment Funds , Lennart Francke , representing Swedbank Robur fonder , and Hans Ek , representing SEB Investment Management , who together represent a combined total of approximately 27 percent of the total number of votes in the Company , made the following proposals regarding items 11 -- 14 :  Item 11 -- Determination of the number of Board members , deputy Board members and auditors  The Nomination Committee proposes that the number of Board members elected by the AGM is seven ( 7 ) with no deputies . Furthermore , the Committee The proposal entails an increase of the number of Board members elected by the AGM from six ( 6 ) to seven ( 7 ) .  Item 12 -- Determination of remuneration to the Board of Directors and auditor  The Nomination Committee proposes the payment of Directors ' fees totaling SEK 2,225,000 , of which SEK 575,000 to the Chairman and SEK 275,000 each to the other Board members . The fees include remuneration for committee work .  The proposal means an increase in the fee to the Chairman of SEK 25,000 and to the other Board members of SEK 15,000 each compared with the year earlier . Furthermore , the proposal regarding increase of the number of Board members elected by the AGM entails that directors ' fees shall be paid out to one ( 1 ) additional Board member . Accordingly , total directors ' fees will increase by SEK 375,000 compared with the preceding year . The Nomination Committee also proposes that fees to auditors are paid against approved invoices .  Item 13 -- Election of Board members , Chairman of the Board and end of the next AGM of the following Board members : Anders Moberg , Lottie Svedenstedt , Karin Hygrell-Jonsson , Hannele Kemppainen and Daniel M ? hlbach . Furthermore , the Nomination Committee proposes new election of the following Board members : Ullrika Eliasson and Mikael Norman . Stig Notl ? v has declined re-election .  It is proposed that Anders Moberg be re-elected as Chairman of the Board .  Ullrika Eliasson was born in 1967 and has extensive experience of sourcing , category management and merchandising , at both Nordic and European level . In addition , she has considerable experience of business integration . In 2016 , Ms. Eliasson joined OneMed Group as Vice President , Category and Sourcing and , previously , she was Director and Head of Category Management at Staples Europe . In addition , Ms. Eliasson 's previous assignments include Supply Chain Manager at Apoteket AB , and Assortment and Purchasing Director at Kronans Droghandel . Ms. Eliasson has also completed the Leadership Development Program at Harvard in 2014 and studied at the Nordic Business Institute in V ? xj ? , Sweden Eliasson is deemed independent in relation to the Company and its management and independent in relation to the Company 's major shareholders .  Mikael Norman was born in 1958 and has substantial experience of issues related to company acquisitions , restructuring and stock market communication . Mr. Norman joined Nobia in 2010 as Group CFO and has previously held a number of positions in the Electrolux Group , including that of Group Controller . Mr. Norman has a Master of Laws and studied economics at Stockholm University . Mr. Norman acts as secretary to the Board of Nobia AB and is a Board member of several of Nobia 's subsidiaries as well as of Cloetta AB . Mr. Norman is deemed independent in relation to the Company and its management and independent in relation to the Company 's major shareholders .  A more detailed presentation of the proposed Board members is available on the Company 's website , www.byggmax.com .  The Nomination Committee proposes the re-election of the Company 's current auditor , the registered accounting firm ? hrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB until the end of the 2017 AGM. Ann-Christin H ? gglund will continue to serve as the Auditor in Charge if the company is re-elected as auditor .  Item 14 -- Resolution on policies regulating the appointment of the Nomination Committee and its work  The Nomination Committee proposes that the AGM adopt the following policies regulating the appointment of the Nomination Committee and its work ahead of the 2017 AGM :  1 . Annually and not later than the end of the third quarter every year , the Chairman of the Board of Directors convenes the three ( 3 ) largest shareholders or shareholder groups ( this includes directly registered and trustee-registered shareholders ) in the Company , as registered at August 31 according to Euroclear Sweden AB , which are then each entitled to appoint one member of the Nomination Committee . The appointee in question should not be a Board member . If any of the three ( 3 ) largest shareholders wishes to refrain from appointing a member of the Committee , the opportunity to appoint a member of the Committee is offered in turn to the next-largest shareholder . In addition to be a member of the Nomination Committee . If any shareholder should waive their right to appoint a member of the Nomination Committee , only the five ( 5 ) largest shareholders need to be asked unless this would result in the Nomination Committee consisting of less than its minimum of three ( 3 ) members ( including the Chairman of the Board of Directors ) . The President and senior executives of the Company are not permitted to be members of the Nomination Committee .  2 . The Chairman of the Board is the convener of the first meeting of the Nomination Committee . Unless otherwise decided by the Nomination Committee , the member representing the largest shareholder should be appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee . The mandate period of the Nomination Committee extends until such time as a new Nomination Committee has been appointed .  3 . The composition of the Nomination Committee must be announced a minimum of six ( 6 ) months prior to the AGM , thereby providing all shareholders with information regarding which individuals to contact regarding nomination issues .  ( 3 ) largest shareholders after the Nomination Committee has held its statutory meeting , said shareholders should be contacted by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and be asked to appoint a member of the Committee . The Chairman of the Nomination Committee should then inform the other members of this shareholder 's wishes . If the ownership change is not insignificant , the member appointed by the shareholder that is no longer among the three ( 3 ) largest shareholders must vacate his position and the new shareholder can then be permitted to appoint one ( 1 ) member . However , the structure of the Nomination Committee should not be changed less than two ( 2 ) months prior to the AGM . If a member leaves the Nomination Committee prior to completion of the Committee 's work , the Nomination Committee is to invite the shareholder who appointed the departing member to appoint a new member . In the event that no new member is appointed by the shareholder who appointed the departing member and if the Committee finds it necessary to replace this member , a set out in item 1 above , based on the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB , as soon as possible after the member has left the Committee . Changes in the Nomination Committee are announced immediately .  5 . The Nomination Committee should prepare and submit proposals to the General Meeting in respect of :  * the election of the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting ;  * number of Board members ; * the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and other Board members on the Company 's Board of Directors ;  * directors ' fees specified between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and other Board members ; * the election of and approval of fees to the auditor and deputy auditor ( where applicable ) , and  * resolution on policies regulating the appointment of the Nomination Committee  No fees are payable to members of the Nomination Committee . The Nomination Committee is entitled to charge the Company with expenses including the cost of recruitment consultants or other expenses required for the Nomination Committee to fully guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives  The Board of Directors proposes that the AGM passes a resolution on the following guidelines for determining remuneration and other terms of employment for the President ( the " President " ) and other senior executives ( " Senior Executives " ) . The proposal for guidelines for determining remuneration and other terms of employment for the President and Senior Executives is the same as those guidelines adopted at the 2015 AGM , with the exception that a proposed warrants program is not included in the proposal .  The overriding policies for remuneration of Senior Executives are that remuneration should reflect the position , the individual 's performance and the Group 's earnings , and be market-based and competitive in the country of employment . Total remuneration to Senior Executives should comprise a fixed salary , variable salary in the form of Short-Term Incentives ( STIs ) based on annual performance targets , Long-Term Incentives ( LTIs ) based on performance over a multi-year period as well as pension and other benefits . In addition to the aforementioned come the terms for be set below market averages . However , overall remuneration , including STIs and LTIs , entails that the market average may be exceeded . Total remuneration should be reviewed annually to ensure that it reflects market rates and is competitive . Comparisons should take into consideration the position , the Company 's size , the level of salary and the individual 's experience .  Fixed salary Fixed salary comprises the basis for total remuneration . The fixed salary should relate to the relevant market and reflect the scope of the responsibility entailed by the position .  Variable salary ( Short Term Incentives " STI " ) In addition to their fixed salaries , Senior Executives should receive STIs for performance that surpasses one or more predetermined performance targets during the fiscal year . Remuneration from the STI program is limited to a maximum of 100% of the fixed salary for the President and 30% of fixed salary for other management , which means that Byggmax can immediately calculate the maximum variable remuneration level . STIs are measured with qualitative and quantitative measures . The maximum cost of the about SEK 6.0 million ( 6 ) , excluding social security contributions .  Long Term Incentives ( " LTI " ) The 2013 and 2015 AGMs resolved on LTI programs in the form of a warrants-based incentive program . The incentive programs are described in Note 9 of the 2015 Annual Report and can be viewed on the Company 's website , www.byggmax.com .  Pension Where possible , pension agreements should be premium-based and designed in accordance with the levels and practices applicable in the country where the Senior Executive is employed .  Other benefits Other benefits may be provided in accordance with the conditions that apply in the country where the Senior Executive is employed . However , all such benefits should be as limited in scope as possible and are not permitted to comprise a significant proportion of total remuneration .  Notice period and severance pay Senior Executives should be offered terms complying with prevailing legislation and practices in the country of employment of the Senior Executive . During the notice period , Senior Executives should be prevented from working in a competing business . is applicable for a period of up to 24 months after termination of the notice period . At present , the longest notice period in the Byggmax Group is 12 months and no severance pay agreement exists in any employment contract .  The Board has the right to deviate from the aforementioned guidelines if the Board deems that it is motivated in specific cases .  Information concerning the AGM  The Board of Directors and the President must , if a shareholder so requests and the Board of Directors considers it possible without this resulting in material damage to the Company , provide information concerning , conditions that could influence the assessment of an item on the agenda , conditions that could influence assessments of the financial condition of the Company or subsidiaries and the company 's relationship to other Group companies .  Documentation for the Annual General Meeting  The financial statements and auditors ' report , the auditors ' opinion on the application of guidelines for the remuneration of Senior Executives , a complete set of proposals for the resolutions , and , where applicable , Companies Act will be available from the Company at Arm ? gatan 40 in Solna , Sweden , and on the Company 's website , www.byggmax.com , not later than three weeks before the AGM , that is , not later than April 19 , 2016 . Copies of the documents are sent to shareholders who have requested this and provided their postal address . The documents will also be available at the AGM .  Stockholm , March 2016  Byggmax Group AB ( publ )  Board of Directors  About Byggmax  The Byggmax Group consists of Byggmax , Buildor and Sk ? nska Byggvaror . Byggmax was launched in 1993 and currently has 77 stores in Sweden from Ystad to Lule ? . The company had net sales of approximately SEK 3.5 billion in 2014 and is continuing to expand strongly . Byggmax also has 30 stores in Norway and 13 in Finland . The website sells the entire store assortment , as well as an extensive range of products available to order . From the very beginning , Byggmax 's business concept has been to be of high-quality construction materials . Byggmax has a drive-in system at all its stores , enabling customers to load their products into their vehicles directly . This makes life easy and efficient for customers , particularly when buying heavy construction materials . Buildor is a rapidly growing online retailer within building materials , with sales of almost SEK 50 million for the last 12 months , until September 2015 ) , and with a growth rate of more than 150% over the same time period . Buildor and Sk ? nska Byggvaror were acquired by the Byggmax Group in November 2015 . The Byggmax Group was listed on the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm Exchange in June 2010.