Emilia Clarke Shares Her Ideal 'Game of Thrones' Ending: Dragons ...
http://www.thewrap.com/emilia-clarke-shares-her-ideal-game-of-thrones-ending-dragons-nudity-and-barbecued-goat/

related  daenerys dishes to glamour magazine about her vision for the ending -- " i 'd like close-ups of all the boys ' penises , please . ' "  " game of thrones " star emilia clarke has shared her ideal ending for her character , daenerys targaryen , and it involves some barbecued goat and a lot of nudity .  " i want to see daenerys and her three dragons share the throne , " she told glamour . " eat goat they 've barbecued . and bring back all the pretty boys , get them to take their trousers down , and be like , ' i 'm now the queen of everything ! i 'd like close-ups of all the boys ' penises , please . ' "  her ideal ending would certainly balance out the extreme gender issues and the treatment of female characters " game of thrones " has been criticized for since the series debuted in 2011 .  clarke has previously spoken out about the depiction of women in " game of thrones , " saying " that 's what 's beautiful about ' game of thrones ' -- it 's depiction of women in so many different stages of development , " she told entertainment weekly . " there are women depicted as sexual tools , women who have zero rights , women who are queens but only to a man , and then there are women who are literally unstoppable and as powerful as you can possibly imagine . "  even sophie turner , who plays sansa stark in the series , believes the show is feminist .  " i think that the depiction of women is a nice depiction of women , " she had told the wall street journal . " back then , women did n't have half the power they have in the show . this is n't a popular opinion but it 's definitely a feminist show because as i say , back then women did n't have the power to control kingdoms and they were n't becoming the strongest characters in life . in this show , some of the strongest characters are the female characters . in so there are these social boundaries put upon them and they break out of them in the show . "