DEA to decide within months whether to change federal status of ...
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/apr/6/dea-decide-within-months-whether-change-federal-st/

demonstrators calling for the legalization of marijuana outside of the white house , in washington , saturday , april 2 , 2016 . they are demanding obama use his authority to stop marijuana arrests and pardon offenders . ( ap photo/jose luis magana ) ** file ** more &gt;  the drug enforcement administration says it plans to decide within the next several months whether to change the federal status of marijuana , according to a letter sent to lawmakers this week .  marijuana is currently classified as a schedule i drug , alongside the likes of lsd and heroin , which means it is deemed to have a high potential for abuse and no accepted medical use . rescheduling could make it easier for researchers to study potential uses of the drug , a move that medical marijuana advocates would cheer .  the letter to lawmakers , signed by the heads of the dea , the department of health and human services and the office of national drug control policy , states that the dea has received scientific and medical evaluations as well as release a determination on rescheduling " in the first half of 2016 . "  the letter does not disclose the hhs rescheduling recommendation .  rescheduling of a schedule i to a schedule ii drug is rare . the dea has done so just five times , according to a 2015 report by the brookings institution .  while schedule ii drugs are still classified as having high potential for abuse , they have an accepted medical use in treatment and can be prescribed under tight restrictions . morphine , oxycodone and cocaine fall into this category .  " reclassifying cannabis will make scientific research easier and will send a strong signal that the u.s. government is finally ready to acknowledge that marijuana has medical value , " said tom angell , chairman of the advocacy group the marijuana majority .  igor grant , director of the center for medicinal cannabis research at the university of california , san diego , is one researcher with firsthand experience navigating the bureaucratic hurdles it takes to gain approval for a marijuana study . he says past studies aimed at determining months just to gain approval .  rescheduling marijuana would make it easier to obtain approvals and require a research facility to get federal agencies to sign off on related studies or study modifications less often , dr. grant said .  " it would make it easier practically , " he said .  with the arduous constraints in place , others have opted instead to engage in clinical trials to study effects of cannabinoids , the active compound in marijuana , rather than marijuana itself .  kevin hill , assistant professor of psychiatry at harvard medical school 's mclean hospital , is overseeing two studies involving cannabinoids that he said may help determine ways to treat a small percentage of marijuana users who become addicted to the drug .  using cannabinoids that are schedule ii and schedule iii drugs makes it easier to get federal agencies to sign off on the studies . that still does n't address the reality that with marijuana legal for medicinal use in 23 states and the district of columbia , a lot of people are using marijuana as medicine to treat .  " we need to have more of the evidence , " he said .  while researchers remain hopeful , others are skeptical that the dea will reschedule marijuana .