Russian billionaire Yuri Milner invests $100m to send a fleet of ...
http://techcrunch.com/2016/04/12/russian-billionaire-yuri-milner-invests-100m-to-send-a-fleet-of-spacecraft-to-alpha-centauri/

0  Yuri Milner is pushing forward with the hunt for intelligent alien life beyond our planet , and is investing another $100 million in a more proactive approach after putting up the original $100m last year .  In July of 2015 , Milner and I sat down and discussed the greatest question of all . In the mind of this legendary investor , that question is " are we alone ? " To get to the answer , he invested $100 million in a project called Breakthrough Initiatives , with the first phase being dubbed Breakthrough Listen . Breakthrough Listen uses two of the most powerful telescopes on the planet to listen , across multiple frequencies , to the signals within the universe .  No , Milner has not yet found proof of extraterrestrial life via Breakthrough Listen . However , he ( in conjunction with Stephen Hawking and Mark Zuckerberg ) is ready to announce the second phase of this project , called Breakthrough Starshot .  Advancements in technology have allowed for a very unique form of exploration , and Milner is .  Breakthrough Starshot is unlike anything ever launched into space .  The project includes a collection of gram-scale nanocraft space ships , equipped with sensors , a laser to transmit information back to Earth , robotics to steer , and a camera . These space ships wo n't be propelled by a rocket , but light itself .  There are three fundamental pieces of this project , all of which have recently become possible through breakthroughs in technology .  Latest Crunch Report  The first is a gram-scale wafer . Moore 's law has allowed for powerful computation at a very small scale . Because of that , Milner says scientists and technologists will be able to build a fully functional space probe , complete with lasers , communications systems , and cameras , all smaller than the palm of your hand .  The second part of the mission requires a light sail . Thanks to new discoveries in metamaterials , the team will be able to build a sail that is only a few hundred atoms thick , a few meters wide , and as be attached to the nanocraft and pushed by ... ( you guessed it ! ) light !  The final piece of the puzzle is a light beam , or a very powerful laser . This is by far the most expensive and difficult component , but thanks to the ability to sync a number of smaller lasers , it is now possible to build a light beam strong enough to push these nanocraft up into space .  Once in space , and headed the right direction , inertia will do the rest .  Because the nanocraft are so small , and susceptible to interference from interstellar dust , etc. , Milner plans to send a few hundred into space to ensure that a few make it to their intended destination of the  But where are they headed ?  Alpha Centauri , the closest star system to our own solar system , where there is a potential to find intelligent life .  CrunchBase  BioYuri started investing in Internet companies in 1999 . In 2005 , he founded Digital Sky Technologies , Limited ( now DST Russian speaking world . Under his leadership , Mail.ru Group performed approximately 75 transactions and built what is now the leading Russian language website in terms of users . Mail.ru Group is also the seventh most popular ...  Upon launch , which is still years away , it would take the fleet of tiny spacecraft 20 years to reach the star system , and messages from the laser-based on-board communication system would take another four years to receive here on earth . In a best case situation , we 'd still be waiting upwards of 25 years to hear back .  However , it would take today 's fastest spacecraft 30,000 years to accomplish the same feat .  This will certainly be a difficult and expensive undertaking , yet I 'm told that this project will be no more expensive or impossible than any of the most expensive scientific experiments currently underway .  Though this latest investment is just the first phase , and focused on research and development , Breakthrough Starshot is dedicated to transparency and openness throughout the life of the project . That way as we inch closer to discovering extraterrestrial life .  The program will be led by Pete Worden , the former director of NASA AMES Research Center , and the board will consist of Hawking , Milner , and Mark Zuckerberg .  Milner and Hawking are unveiling the initiative at a press conference right now . You can check out a live stream of the event right here .