Boil-water order in effect for parts of downtown Orlando after I-4 work ...
http://www.orlandosentinel.com/news/breaking-news/os-water-line-blowout-i-4-orlando-20160412-story.html

a construction crew ripped open a 30-inch city water line at interstate 4 and colonial drive in orlando on tuesday , sending a tower of water 12 feet into the air , flooding a street and , for a few hours , requiring thousands of people downtown to stop drinking tap water .  the break prompted a private school to send students home early , and for a time , everyone at all 14 downtown orange county facilities -- including judges , lawyers and felons at the courthouse -- to stop drinking tap water .  the orlando utilities commission , owner of the water line , issued a precautionary boil water order shortly before noon for much of downtown but later scaled back .  by mid-afternoon , all county facilities were given the all-clear , and ouc spokesman tim trudell said at that point only about 50 customers were affected , mostly businesses within a quarter mile radius of the break .  still that includes residents of two major apartment complexes on orange avenue north of colonial drive that are home to more and steelhouse apartments .  an i-4 construction crew ruptured a line downtown , sending water gushing into the air and prompting a boil-water alert .  also under the boil-water order : the 40 employees at the u.s. attorney 's office on west washington street , said spokesman william daniels .  in general , customers should boil their water if they are north of concord street , south of marks street , west of orange avenue and east of lexington avenue , trudell said .  the accident happened about 10 a.m. on the northeast corner of i-4 and colonial drive , one of the busiest interchanges in orlando .  a crew from sgl constructors , the main contractor on the mammoth i-4 makeover , had dug down to the line as part of its assignment to rebuild the interchange , said dave parks , a consultant with the florida department of transportation , which is in charge of the six-year project .  the crew could see the 30-inch water line , parks said .  " they were in the process of placing a steel trench " he said . " the box somehow hit the water line . "  that punched a hole in it , sending water gushing 12 to 15 feet into the air , a sight that prompted motorists to stop and take photographs .  no one was hurt , parks said .  the temporary water emergency prompted st. james cathedral school to dismiss classes for the rest of the day shortly after noon .  for some customers , water pressure dropped so low the utility could no longer guarantee that its tap water was safe , so it advised them to boil water before drinking it .  only one ouc customer lost all water service , trudell said , but many downtown saw their water pressure drop as crews slowed the flow of water to make the repair .