Military recovers 9 of 12 Marines killed in Hawaii crash, but not ...
http://www.startribune.com/military-recovers-9-of-12-marines-killed-in-hawaii-crash/375794251/

Military recovers 9 of 12 Marines killed in Hawaii crash , but not Minnesotan  Gallery : Sgt. Dillon Semolina is shown in action in a photo posted by his family on the GoFundMe website .  Feed Loader  Gallery : Unidentified family members gather around a photograph of U.S. Marine Sgt. Dillon J. Semolina , 24 , of Chaska Minnesota during a memorial service for the 12 Marines who died when their helicopters crashed off the North Shore of Oahu , Hawaii , Friday Jan. 22 , 2016 , at Marine Corps Base Hawaii . Servicemen draped flight gear on 12 white crosses Friday to commemorate the Marines who died when two helicopters crashed off the coast of Hawaii during a nighttime training mission . Military members and families gathered for the memorial service at Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kaneohe after the status of the dozen missing Marines changed to deceased following five days of searching . ( AP Photo/Caleb Jones )  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Mike and Lisa De La Cruz hold part of the Marine uniform of in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Sgt. Dillon Semolina , pictured second to left , in a photo provided by his mother and stepfather Mike and Lisa De La Cruz at their home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Dillon Semolina 's dog tags are seen on display at the home of his mother and stepfather Mike and Lisa De La Cruz in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : The dress blues that belonged to Dillon Semolina hang in the Bloomington home of his mother and stepfather on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : The Delano High School football uniform of Dillon Semolina kept at his mother and stepfather 's home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : A cooler sits outside of Mike and Lisa De La Cruz ' s . The cooler is filled daily with meals made for the family .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Lisa De La Cruz shows cards written to her and her husband Mike De La Cruz by elementary school students at their home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Lisa De La Cruz holds a bear that wears her son Dillon Semolina 's dog tags . She bought the bear in Hawaii at the base wear her son Dillon Semolina was stationed and holds it in her home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 . De La Cruz says she hugs the bear when she wants to hug her son .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : A tribute made by Lisa De La Cruz to her son Dillon Semolina , pictured at left on the wall , inside her home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 . Mike De La Cruz , Dillon 's stepfather and a former Marine , is pictured at right on the : Mike and Lisa De La Cruz hold hands while wearing bracelets as a tribute to her son and his stepson Dillon Semolina at their home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  Leila Navidi -- Star Tribune  Gallery : Mike and Lisa De La Cruz wear the dog tags and a photo of her son and his stepson Dillon Semolina at their home in Bloomington on Wednesday , February 17 , 2016 .  HONOLULU -- The U.S. Marine Corps says it has recovered the remains of nine of the 12 Marines killed when two helicopters crashed during nighttime training off Hawaii .  Remains of three Marines were not recovered , the Marine Corps said Thursday in a statement . Sgt. Dillon Semolina , of Chaska is still missing as well as Sgt. Adam Schoeller and Cpl . Christopher Orlando .  The Marines say they have completed recovery operations .  The helicopters were part of Marine Heavy Helicopter Squadron 463 based at Kaneohe Bay . The Coast Guard initially reported that the choppers had collided , but the Marines said later it cause remains under investigation .  It happened off Oahu 's North Shore in January . The Marine Corps says teams mapped the debris site and recovered significant wreckage from both helicopters .