The inside story of why the WNBA draft picks did the same fist bump ...
http://ftw.usatoday.com/2016/04/lisa-borders-wnba-fist-bump-draft

The inside story of why the WNBA draft picks did the same fist bump at the draft  UNCASVILLE , Conn. -- After being announced as the top WNBA draft pick , former UConn star Breanna Stewart strode to the stage . She hugged her parents , her former teammates who in a few minutes would go second and third in the draft . She hugged UConn coach Geno Auriemma .  Finally , she arrived at the stage to greet WNBA president Lisa Borders . Instead of the familiar awkward hug or handshake that often accompanies WNBA drafts , the two went in for a fist bump and then flashed three fingers in the air to form a ' W ' .  " So we 're giving each other a pound and then showing three fingers . This is actually a W , " Borders explained later , with her fingers in the air in a W shape . " It 's for the WNBA and in sign language this is actually a W. So W for women and W for the WNBA . " our 20th season , " Borders said . " We want to celebrate in so many different ways ... we thought we have to have some way to great one another on a regular basis for the W for the 20th and beyond and this is what we came up with . "  Borders , a former Coca-Cola executive who is in her first season with the league , introduced the fist bump to the potential draft picks at pre-draft orientation .  Former South Carolina player Tiffany Mitchell , who was selected as the ninth pick at the draft , said there was a bit of pressure to get the fist bump right -- especially with all of the emotion surrounding the night . The players practiced the fist bump a bit with each other and it served instantly almost as an inside joke between them .  " We 'd go up to each other and it would be like ' pound ' and just throw it up , " Mitchell said . " It was just cool , just to have something different from everyone else . league in February , Borders has put an emphasis on highlighting the league 's 20th anniversary in as many small but marketable ways as possible . The league is changing its color scheme on some of its uniforms for the upcoming season , there 's a new 20th anniversary logo and a new ad campaign called ' Watch Me Work ' .  A specialized fist bump for the class is likely not just a way to avoid awkward hugs -- Borders saw it as just another way to make the upcoming season stand out .  It was also an early chance for some of the prospects to take a leadership role in their draft class .  " Today when we were getting makeup and hair I was going around to everybody just doing it and no one remembered , " said Rachel Banham , who was selected fourth in the draft . " I was like ' you better remember this because it 's going to get pretty awkward on stage ' . So I was testing everyone before the show . "  The inside story of at the draft  A coordinated campaign from Lisa Borders , the league 's first-year president .  I found this on FTW and wanted to share : %link% For more great sports stories ... *visit For The Win : https : //www.ftw.usatoday.com *follow @ForTheWin : https : **27;1183;TOOLONG *like FTW on Facebook : https : **30;1212;TOOLONG