George RR Martin's Idea for a Game of Thrones Spin-Off
http://www.comingsoon.net/tv/news/677911-george-r-r-martins-idea-for-a-game-of-thrones-spin-off

george r.r. martin 's idea for a game of thrones spin-off  george r.r. martin 's idea for a game of thrones spin-off  the 10-episode sixth season of game of thrones is premiering on hbo this sunday , april 24 , and if showrunners david benioff and d.b. weiss go through with their plan to potentially wrap up the show with 13 more episodes , that will leave a dragon-sized hole in hbo 's programming lineup . with shows like fear the walking dead and better call saul gaining popularity , a spin-off seems like a no-brainer , and entertainment weekly is reporting that " a song of ice and fire " creator george r.r. martin may have already written the ideal one .  " the most natural follow-up would be an adaptation of my ' dunk &amp; egg ' stories , " says martin of his trio of novellas collected in the anthology a knight of the seven kingdoms . set 90 years before the current saga , these stories center on " hedge knight " ser duncan the tall ( later a member king aegon v targaryen of westeros and father of " mad king " aerys ii ) .  " each of the novellas could easily be done as a two-hour stand-alone movie for television ; that would probably be the ideal way to do them , rather than as an ongoing weekly series , " added martin . " ' the hedge knight ' and its sequels are lighter in tone than ' a song of ice and fire , ' more in the realm of action/adventure . "  based on the popular book series " a song of ice and fire , " by george r.r. martin , the hit emmy-winning fantasy series chronicles an epic struggle for power in a vast and violent kingdom . the ensemble cast for the fifth season included emmy and golden globe winner peter dinklage , nikolaj coster-waldau , lena headey , emilia clarke , aidan gillen , kit harington , diana rigg , natalie dormer , maisie williams and sophie turner . former " deadwood " star ian mcshane is also set to guest star in game of thrones season six . vacuum that protagonists across westeros and essos were looking to fill . at castle black , jon snow struggled to balance the demands of the night 's watch with those of newly-arrived stannis baratheon , who styles himself the rightful king of westeros . meanwhile , cersei scrabbled to hold on to power in king 's landing amidst the tyrells and the rise of a religious group led by the enigmatic high sparrow , while jaime embarked on a secret mission . across the narrow sea , arya sought an old friend while a fugitive tyrion found a new cause . and as danger mounts in meereen , daenerys targaryen found that her tenuous hold on the city requires some hard sacrifices .