The Gawker Endorsement: None of Them
http://gawker.com/the-gawker-endorsement-none-of-them-1771730697

For the first time in the modern primary era , the New York presidential primary election , happening today , is actually important in the races for both the Republican and Democratic nominations . For the conscientious citizen , this is lousy news . You can no longer engage in the beloved New York tradition of just writing in Howard Stern , confident that your vote would n't have mattered anyway .  We are sensitive to the terrible burden this places on our readers , and so we have decided to undertake the rare of step of issuing endorsements in both the Republican and Democratic primaries . While our writers are free to support candidates of their choosing , Gawker , which is based in New York , has historically been reluctant to officially endorse particular candidates in local or national elections . ( Though we have not avoided endorsements entirely . )  Chances are good that you ca n't vote anyway , because you were self-righteous ( or ill-informed ) enough to register as an independent , or as a member of the Working register as a Democrat or Republican , your vote today matters . Please consider our plea to not exercise this terrible power .  Advertisement  Do n't Vote For Donald Trump  Yeah , this one 's a no-brainer , right ?  Though you 'd be surprised ! There are , theoretically , reasons a thinking person might vote for Donald Trump . Trump is actively sabotaging the Republican Party and breaking the conservative movement 's hold on it , two very laudable goals . He is , counterintuitively , the least-conservative Republican in the race , and the most likely to govern as something resembling a moderate . Because he is beholden to none of the traditional ideological stakeholders in the Republican Party , Trump might even be uniquely suited to break the hold the most reactionary elements have over the GOP .  Sponsored  But , you know , there 's also the xenophobic ethnonationalism bordering on support for ethnic cleansing , the shameless embrace of political violence , the unmistakable parallels to the rise of the new European crypto-fascist right , the grotesque sexism , sausage fingers on the button the survivors of his presidency would end up living in The Road .  You should n't vote for Donald Trump . But you knew that already .  Do n't Vote For Ted Cruz  Again , it may seem like a no-brainer .  There is no good outcome to a Trump versus Cruz fight . Trump is a rabble-rousing racist white populist with no core principles . Cruz is a true-believing extremist . Trump would probably be a horrible president . Cruz would definitely be a horrible president . He 's a right-wing zealot , an evangelical fanatic , and an agent of plutocracy . The scariest thing about Ted Cruz is that he 's apparently smart enough to become hugely successful despite lacking any ability to win allies or even friends . If he was even slightly personable he 'd be unstoppable .  Advertisement  However , even a conservative -- a rabid conservative -- should n't vote for Cruz . He 'd be the most conservative candidate since Barry Goldwater , and , barring an extremely unlikely Democratic collapse , 's defeat marked the beginning of the long ascendance of the conservative movement , Cruz 's defeat would look much more like its closing bookend . He would discredit movement conservatism for a generation , and the " moderate " business interests of the party would immediately work to seize control of the GOP from both the insurgent ideologues and the rowdy populists . ( This is also sort of the reason to hope that conservatives do vote for Cruz . )  Do n't Vote For John Kasich  This is less of an issue in New York , thanks to our closed primaries , but every ostensible Democrat or liberal who casts a vote for Kasich because they feel some responsibility to help " stop Trump " is doing nothing but making it a bit more likely that our next president will be a very conservative Republican .  The idiotic supporters of Marco Rubio liked to claim that " the media " and liberals enjoyed watching Rubio fail because they were scared of him . Nope . We liked watching Marco Rubio fail because it was very funny as I 'm speaking both for the left and the press , I 'll be totally honest : Kasich has always been the most plausibly electable candidate in the entire GOP field , and I 'm pretty sure he 'd beat Hillary Clinton . Hell , I think Romney should have picked him as his running mate in 2012 . The worst-case scenario for Democrats is that Kasich emerges from a contested convention with the nomination .  President Kasich would be George W. Bush 's third term , only with a large ( and significantly more conservative ) Republican Congressional majority baked in . Can you even imagine how much damage he and Paul Ryan could do in one term ? Just about every upwardly redistributive policy the American Enterprise Institute can think of would be jammed through before liberals had time to catch their breath .  Just about the best thing we can hope for with Kasich is that his rote hawkishness is completely insincere , because otherwise we 'll get sequels both to the Bush tax cuts and the Iraq War .  Do n't Vote For disaster . It will be a disaster mainly because our entire political system is a disaster .  This is not particular to her . Clinton 's first term would be , in large part , a continuation of the Obama presidency , featuring similar domestic priorities , appointees , nominees , and arguments . It would also be a continuation of the Democratic Party 's odd semi-decline , which has seen it effectively become a party that is capable only of winning the presidency and , in extraordinarily good years , tenuous control of the Senate . If Clinton represents the Democratic Party establishment , it 's an establishment that is guilty of electoral malpractice on a grand scale . The party is totally unprepared to capitalize on the fact that the Republican presidential nominee is likely to be among the least-liked in modern history : As David Dayen pointed out in The New Republic last month , there will be at least 27 Congressional races this November in which no Democrats will appear on the ballots at all ; two of those races are for seats Democrats held prior specifically Clinton 's fault , of course , but neither will it be specifically her fault when the feebleness of the Democratic Party and the general brokenness of our entire presidential system causes her first term to be a depressing continuation of the alienating gridlock that has characterized the Tea Party era . Whatever gains the Democrats make in 2016 will likely be wiped out in 2018 . Assuming Republicans maintain statehouse control nationwide -- a safe enough assumption , considering the fecklessness of the Democratic Party -- the 2020 census will lock in a Republican House for another decade .  This is why praise for Clinton 's " realism " is so misguided . Want to talk about what 's realistic ? Even the most modest center-left agenda imaginable stands no hope of being enacted legislatively no matter who the next president is . Clinton , for all that her supporters talk of her ability to get things done within the system , will have no magical ability to work with a Republican Congress on anything substantive . If they do find common ground , watch out : When with Republicans in Congress , those compromises have involved the Clintons supporting conservative policy -- from welfare reform to then-Senator Clinton 's odd 2005 decision to co-sponsor a bill that would make flag-burning illegal .  That incident is actually a fine example of how Clinton 's reactionary political instincts have been out-of-date for more than a decade . The flag-burning bill was supposed to be a " compromise " from the conservative priority of a flag-burning Constitutional amendment , which Republicans introduced in every Congress following the 1994 " Republican Revolution . " They have n't introduced it again since 2006 , because even by then it was clearly no longer a wedge issue voters actually cared about .  Even if Penn , Sydney Blumenthal , and Lanny Davis are too toxic to return to a Clinton White House in major official capacities , there 's little reason to believe that Clinton wo n't just fill her administration with spiritual successors to those craven loyalists . ( This even before we get to the likely return of economic advisers and appointees in the Rubin/Summers mold , or maybe even to foreign policy , an area in which there is actual daylight between Clinton and the man she hopes to replace . Barack Obama seems more skeptical of America 's ability to improve the world through hegemonic displays of force than any president since World War II . Even that skepticism did n't stop him from from regularly intervening across the world , with very little to show for it but a large death toll and yet more " instability . "  Clinton does not share Obama 's skepticism , at all . She 's always been naturally hawkish , and when the Democratic debates touch on foreign policy , she tends to sound like she 'd be right at home on stage with Kasich and Cruz . Her serene self-confidence in her demonstrably poor judgment on matters of war and peace is her most troubling quality .  Do n't Vote For Bernie Sanders  There are plenty of perfectly legitimate political reasons for a left-leaning voter not to support Sanders , of course . He has his unliberal gun record , he voted for the same crime bill 's dabbled in anti-immigration rhetoric in the recent past . As president , he may outsource his defense policy-making to the same sorts of " liberal interventionists " who have kept us in constant war even after we elected a president whose popularity was due in part to his opposition to the Iraq invasion . Perhaps his policies , if actually instituted , would actually lead to a tax revolt or mass middle class backlash .  There 's also the fact Bernie Sanders will probably not win the Democratic nomination , barring a completely unforeseeable development -- Clinton decides she 's sick of this shit and drops out of the race , basically .  Still , if you find that you are closer to Sanders than to Clinton on most of the issues on which they differ , then by all means vote for him . There 's always a shot , no matter how unlikely it currently seems . But that unlikely Bernie Sanders victory could still end up turning out horribly even for people inclined to support him .  First of all , if Sanders were the Democratic Party establishment would respond with fury . They 'd purge leftists , rig the nominating process even further , and do everything they could to eliminate any trace of economic populism from the party 's platform . The next nominee would probably be young , probably a person of color , and -- most importantly -- they would be deeply allied with the investor class wing of the party . ( Cory Booker , in other words , or someone very much like him . ) Just as McGovern 's landslide loss led directly to the DLC and the Third Way , so would a Sanders loss lead to the further gentrification of the Democratic Party .  If Sanders did win it all ? It could still end up being an unmitigated disaster for the American left , because making him a failed president would be the top priority of the entire American monied elite .  Not to exaggerate Sanders ' radicalism , but the phenomenon of his campaign can be understood as a popular revolt against the dominant ideology of our era , which is ( has a lot of contested meanings , and is too often simply leftist shorthand for " stuff I do n't like , " but it 's still a useful umbrella term for what the Marxist economist Chris Dillow recently described -- accurately , I think -- as " not so much a coherent intellectual project as a series of opportunistic ad hoc uses of capitalist power . "  Power is the operative word there : The rentiers have pretty much all of it , and they are willing to exercise it to protect their interests .  When the left-wing , anti-austerity Syriza party took power in Greece , that nation 's creditors -- the European Commission , European Central Bank , and the International Monetary Fund -- effectively blackmailed the entire country into accepting austerity , exercising veto power over democracy itself . A hypothetical Sanders presidency probably would n't face a quashing quite that brutal -- or blatant -- but Greece shows how few compunctions the investor class has about undermining democracy to ensure the success of its preferred economic arrangements .  Sanders would be an ineffective but because the system itself would rebel against him . He would n't just face an intransigent Republican-controlled Congress , he 'd likely also face an open revolt by the business class element of the Democratic Party -- the element that has totally dominated the party since the decline of big labor . If President Sanders tried anything truly radical , he could expect to see skittish " centrist " Democratic senators joining Republicans in blocking his appointees , the Supreme Court blocking his executive actions , and perhaps even the Federal Reserve working to undermine his economic policy . The worst-case scenario ? Impeachment , and the foreclosing of any hope of the left building on his presidency to establish true social democracy in America . There 's no reason to believe that Sanders ' " political revolution , " a naive belief in mass electoral action to fix structural problems baked into our political system , would be able to overcome the unprecedented opposition that would arise in response to any attempt to enact his agenda .  All of that assumes President Sanders actually would make good on course . There 's also the chance that he 'd just be a mostly conventional Democratic president . If that 's true , what 's worth getting so excited about , exactly ?  It would be better , surely , for the left to build on what Sanders accomplishes in defeat , and seriously plot a systematic takeover of the Democratic Party , rather than pin the movement 's hopes on one presidential candidate . Fixating on the presidency might be a waste of activist energy and donor funds , when there are Andrew Cuomos and Rahm Emanuels out there who need defeating first .