CENTENNIAL, Colo. (CBS4)- Centennial Airport may be leading the ...
http://denver.cbslocal.com/2016/04/20/centennial-airport-leading-return-of-supersonic-flight/

centennial airport leading return of supersonic flight  centennial , colo . ( cbs4 ) -- centennial airport may be leading the way in the return of supersonic flight .  the concorde was a supersonic jet the hopped the pond , new york city to london , in just 3 ? hours . the jet was retired in 2003 after guzzling jet fuel and creating sonic booms for decades .  " we offer something completely different which is getting there in less than half the time , " said ceo of boom blake scholl .  conventional aircraft take about seven hours to reach europe .  boom ( credit : cbs )  scholl has hired his 13th engineer with more to come . he dreams of reviving supersonic flight and showed cbs4 's howard nathan an engine that has already flown at the supersonic speed of more than twice the speed of sound .  scholl and nathan walked on a tape outline of the jet being developed at centennial airport .  cbs4 's howard nathan interview blake scholl ( credit : how big it 's going to be , this is what ? "  scholl replied , " this is one third scale the prototype , 50 feet long . "  plans call for building the prototype this august with hundreds more of the full sized jet that will carry about 40 passengers . compared to the old 100-seater that charged $20,000 for a ticket , the boom ticket might run about $5,000 .  the possibility of business in britain means a departure from new york at 6 a.m. followed by a full day of work in england .  " catch a 9:30 flight from london , back to new york , you land in new york at 8 o'clock , the day you left , you can tuck your kids into bed , " said scholl .  initially the plane will not fly at supersonic speed over land . aviation regulations say the plane can reach supersonic speed only when it 's over the ocean . scholl is hoping the return to supersonic flight will change that rule .  scholl is supported by aviation industry sir richard branson of virgin airlines fame wants to buy 10 of his supersonic jets .  howard nathan is a veteran newsman . decades later , he still enjoys writing a clever sentence , asking the tough question and talking to people in colorado . follow him on twitter @cbs4howard and read his bio.