Statoil buys half of $1.4 billion EON German wind project
http://powersource.post-gazette.com/powersource/companies/2016/04/26/Norway-oil-company-Statoil-buys-half-of-1-4-billion-EON-German-wind-energy-project-fossil-fuel/stories/201604260056

statoil and eon will invest more than 1.2 billion euros ( $1.4 billion ) in the project , which lies 35 kilometers ( 56 miles ) off the german island of ruegen , the stavanger-based company said in an e-mailed statement . electricity production is scheduled to start in 2019 and will power as many as 400,000 households , it said . siemens ag will supply the turbines .  " there 's no getting around for the big utilities to gear up investments in renewable power , " said christopher rodler , an analyst at equity researchers montega ag in hamburg , by phone . " financial clout and staying power is needed for offshore . "  the project is statoil 's first wind-power venture outside the u.k. , where it holds a stake in the sheringham shoal wind farm , the company 's only commercial wind project in production . for eon , it 's the second large-scale renewable power development announced in as many months and is part of a strategy to invest as much as 1.5 billion euros annually in new clean a significant investment in a relatively demanding financial situation for statoil , " irene rummelhoff , executive vice president of the new energy solutions unit , said at a press conference in oslo . " it shows we 're committed to building up a complementary renewables business in addition to oil and gas . "  at the end of last year , statoil made a final investment decision on the 2 billion-kroner ( $243 million ) hywind scotland project , the world 's first floating wind farm . statoil has also decided to go ahead with the dudgeon project in 2014 and is a partner on two dogger bank projects , which were approved by the u.k. in 2015 .  the investment is a milestone for the norwegian company 's new energy solutions business unit , which was set up by chief executive officer eldar saetre after he succeeded helge lund at the end of 2014 . statoil , one of europe 's top producers of oil and natural gas , said it will now be able to deliver renewable energy to more than 1 million households in europe investing about 20 billion kroner in offshore-wind projects from 2012 to 2019 , and that figure is likely to rise , ms. rummelhoff said in an interview after the press conference . statoil is currently working with auction processes in denmark , the netherlands , germany and france . its executives have visited the u.s. to consider offshore wind work , where the company sees a " very positive development , " she said .  while the company has a goal of using its offshore competence to seek opportunities in renewables energy , it has said these projects will have to compete with traditional fossil-fuel projects in its portfolio on the basis of profitability at a time where the company is reducing spending because of a collapse in crude prices .  " we see enormously exciting opportunities and strong growth " in the wind power industry , ms. rummelhoff said . " we wish to participate -- not to green-wash statoil , but because we see real and good business opportunities . '  the deal also means that germany could exceed its renewable energy targets , according to that germany will beat their original target of 6.5 gigawatts installed offshore wind by 2020 and get closer to the revised 7.7-gigawatt target announced last week , " bnef wind analyst tom harries said . " the baltics are known to have lower capacity factors than the north sea but an easier working climate for installation and maintenance access . "  join the conversation :  to report inappropriate comments , abuse and/or repeat offenders , please send an email to **28;152;toolong and include a link to the article and a copy of the comment . your report will be reviewed in a timely manner . thank you .