Gase not paying attention to report of players upset with Suh
http://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2016/04/27/gase-not-paying-attention-to-report-of-players-upset-with-suh/

gase not paying attention to report of players upset with suh  on tuesday , the dolphins launched the first voluntary minicamp of coach adam gase 's tenure . defensive tackle ndamukong suh did not volunteer to attend .  some teammates who chose to be there reportedly were upset with suh . during a wednesday visit to pft live on nbc sports radio , i asked gase for his reaction to that report .  " anytime you hear reports like this , it 's hard to pay attention to it because i feel like i have a good enough relationship with our players to where if they have a problem with something , my door 's wide open and if somebody has an issue with somebody else they know where to come , " gase said . " so unless i have one of those situations come up , which i have n't , then that 's something i really do n't want to worry about . "  it does n't mean the situation wo n't land on gase 's radar screen with a far , it has n't .  if you have n't heard everything gase had to say , download hour two of today 's podcast at t itunes or audioboom . or download the whole show at itunes or audioboom .  corbinxplosion says : apr 27 , 2016 2:43 pm i 'm a lions fan and we went through this every year with this guy . he 's a big jerk and i 'm glad he 's gone . he 's a cancer and i bet they try and trade him next off season and eventually cut him . -- -- -- and they went from top 3 to giving up more points per game than miami .  i 'm beginning to think that if all us miami fans got to cherry-pick every player &amp; coach we wanted for this roster -- there 'd still be a majority of fans screamin ' on pft that " the sky is falling " for one reason or another .... you guys really crack me up .... new season has n't even started &amp; your all ready to pack it in -- day over the likes of rex ryan &amp; co. or bill bechacheats bunch ..... sorry i wo n't include the jets , cause todd bowles is a 1st class coach .  valentino8100 says:apr 27 , 2016 3:22 pm  do n't blame gase here . the dolphins organization did n't simply need a new hc -it needs a complete purging from top to beginning beginning with the sale of the team to competent ownership .  wonderlicwizard says : apr 27 , 2016 2:11 pm one of the most selfish players in nfl history  this guy is just bitter suh does n't play for his team .  markeyh says:apr 27 , 2016 3:50 pm  this is typical of the miami media they are drama queens and look for any drama related story ( like not naming names ) to start trouble , suh will come to camp in great shape and this will be what it is much to do about nothing !  " anytime you hear reports like this , it 's hard to pay attention to it because i feel like i have a he has talked to a few players for less than an hour . these voluntary workouts are the 1st time any meaningful contact has been allowed  to those emphasizing its voluntary . you 're absolutely right . what 's also absolutely right is when most , if not all , of your teammates show up and you do n't it sents a clear message . just the way it is.