Arizona man implicates ex-cellmate in murder of Timothy Wiltsey
http://www.nj.com/middlesex/index.ssf/2016/04/arizona_man_implicates_former_acquintance_in_25-ye.html

damien dowdle , 42 , a convicted bank robber , told the jury , how he lived with bernard joseph mcshane in arizona for several years , beginning in 1990 when he was about 16 years old . he said mcshane sexually molested him . by early 1991 , the two were on the run , having been charged with robbing a video store .  dowdle said they split up in texas and eventually he returned to arizona and surrendered to authorities to face the robbery charges . he said sometime in august 1991 , he saw mcshane was in jail near him and they began to talk about what mcshane did after they split .  " he told me he went to the east coast area , " dowdle said .  he said mcshane told him he went to " atlanta city , " and he ( dowdle ) thought he was talking about georgia .  " he ( mcshane ) said he was really bored even though there were boardwalks and gambling , " dowdle testified . " he went to going on . a boy went into the woods . i do n't know whether he lured him or the boy ran into the woods himself . "  dowdle said mcshane told him he tried to molest the boy , but " the kid started screaming and joe got scared it would draw the attention of adults nearby so he ended up killing the kid . "  the witness said after mcshane told him the story , the next day in fact , he contacted his attorney , and told him what mcshane told him . the attorney told a detective , but they thought it was georgia and nothing came of it .  dowdle said when another inmate suggested to him there was no atlanta city , but it could be atlantic city , new jersey , he met again with the detective , and told him it could be atlantic city . he said he never heard what happened .  dowdle said when he got out of prison for the video store robbery , he committed three bank robberies and went to prison for almost decided to search the internet with the story that mcshane gave him . he came up with the story about timothy wiltsey .  he contacted gerald krovatin , lodzinski 's attorney , in october 2015 .  dowdle said he struggled with whether he should do anything with his information at first , but he wanted to " do what was right . "  " i do n't want to be here now , " he said , meaning court .  under cross examination , dowdle said one of his concerns was when he learned timmy 's body was found 10 miles from the carnival site at kennedy park in sayreville where lodzinski reported her son missing . he did n't think the distance between where the boy 's body was found and where he disappeared fit in with what mcshane told him .  " he ( mcshane ) did n't tell me what he did with the boy 's body but i got the impression he did n't take it very far , " dowdle said , adding when questioned , " no , he did . "  dowdle denied he met with scottsdale police detective thomas van meter in january and may 1991 or telling van meter in may 1991 that mcshane was in arizona at that time . van meter was investigating the video store robbery at the time and looking for mcshane .  dowdle testified wednesday morning he met with van meter in september 1991 to tell him that mcshane may have killed a young boy in new jersey .  mcshane is expected to be called by the prosecutors as one of their rebuttal witnesses next week .  lodzinski reported her son missing from the carnival at kennedy park in sayreville , about 100 miles north of atlantic city , the evening of may 25 , 1991 . she told police she turned around to pay for her soda at a concession stand and he was gone .  lodzinski became a prime suspect in the case early in the investigation , according to testimony in the trial , after she gave police several statements that included different versions of her son 's abduction , including one in which he she worked at a bank and two men .