Gray strikes out 11 in 6 innings in 2-1 loss to Padres
http://www.wzzm13.com/news/nation-now/gray-strikes-out-11-in-6-innings-in-21-loss-to-padres/166012878

gray strikes out 11 in 6 innings in 2-1 loss to padres  san diego ( ap ) -- jon gray pitched well enough to win monday night , undone only by some well-placed hits by the san diego padres .  gray struck out 11 , walked only one and allowed two runs and four hits in six innings of the colorado rockies ' 2-1 loss to the san diego padres .  " the way it felt tonight to go through hitters and innings that quick , it 's something i have n't done in a while , so it really did feel good , " gray said . " i think i can work off that next outing . "  matt kemp hit a two-run double in the first inning to help james shields earn his first victory of the season .  shields ( 1-4 ) allowed one run while scattering nine hits over six innings . he struck out five and walked two . the padres took a quick lead against gray after their first four batters reached . jon jay .  " it 's something i 've dealt with a lot lately , " gray said . " i was just looking forward to the next guy . that 's the only thing i can do is get the next couple guys out . i felt pretty good from there . "  gray ( 0-1 ) said his direction was a little off in the first inning . " i was pulling pitches across the zone , it 's something ( catcher nick ) hundley noticed right away and he was making gestures toward me to stay back and go straight to him and we made that adjustment pretty quick . "  kemp 's two-run double was enough for shields , who has gotten lousy run support this year . he had received just five runs of support in his previous five starts . the right-hander was coming off a hard-luck defeat at san francisco on tuesday , when he allowed three hits in a 1-0 loss to johnny cueto .  shields gave up a two-out rbi double to nick hundley in the fourth , which was night .  the rockies had other scoring chances against shields but failed to capitalize . dj lemahieu reached third with two outs in the third before rookie trevor story grounded out . lemahieu was thrown out trying to steal third to end the fifth . gerardo parra reached third with two outs in the sixth before ben paulsen flied out .  fernando rodney pitched a perfect ninth for his fifth save .  gray 's 11 strikeouts came a day after clayton kershaw struck out 14 and threw a three-hitter in a 1-0 victory against the padres at dodger stadium .  " jonny was outstanding , " manager walt weiss said . " even the runs they got in the first inning were just well-placed hits . i thought he threw the ball extremely well . it 's unfortunate we could n't get him a win . he does n't have his first win yet , but if he pitches like that he 's going to get a lot of wins . "  trainer 's room  padres lhp robbie erlin , on the disabled list since elbow .  up next  rockies : rhp eddie butler ( 0-0 , 3.86 era ) is scheduled to make his first start of the season , and second appearance , after being recalled from triple-a .  padres : rhp andrew cashner ( 1-2 , 4.94 ) starts tuesday night . he 'll look to bounce back from his outing at san francisco on wednesday , when he lasted only 2 2/3 innings .