Pietrangelo logs heavy ice time in Blues' playoff run
http://www.wzzm13.com/news/nation-now/pietrangelo-logs-heavy-ice-time-in-blues-playoff-run-1/166014996

pietrangelo logs heavy ice time in blues ' playoff run  st . louis ( ap ) -- alex pietrangelo is used to playing a lot -- especially this time of year . the st. louis blues linchpin defenseman plays with a high motor and appears to have no issues piling up the ice time .  pietrangelo is fourth overall in the playoffs averaging 30 minutes , 34 seconds , including more than 35 minutes in the blues ' overtime victory in game 2 in dallas on sunday . among the surviving eight teams , he 's at the top of the list .  " the more you play him , the better he plays , " coach ken hitchcock said monday , a day ahead of game 3 against the stars ( 9:30 p.m . et , nbcsn ) in a series knotted at a game apiece . " i think he keeps his focus razor-sharp , and when he 's like that , he 's going to help us . "  " he is go , go , go and guys sometimes " backes said . " he 's a big reason why we 're still playing . "  pietrangelo leads the rush at times and has a goal and five assists in the playoffs for a team savoring its first victory in the second round since 2002 .  several teammates believe pietrangelo , the fourth overall pick in 2008 , was the blues ' mvp in the first round . he was instrumental in holding down blackhawks stars patrick kane and jonathan toews .  " i like having the opportunity to play on a big stage , " pietrangelo said . " sometimes it 's hard minutes , but i 'll take that as long as it 's going to help us . "  all of the minutes leaders still in the playoffs are defensemen , with pittsburgh 's kris letang right behind pietrangelo at 29:24 per game . the islanders have two players getting heavy rotation , nick leddy ( 28:33 ) and travis hamonic ( 27:03 ) . nashville 's roman josi ( 27:22 ) and tampa bay 's victor hedman ( 27:02 ) also are out even more given he 's not on the first power play unit , duty that 's not usually as taxing as regular shifts .  " you have to recognize that those are heavy minutes he 's playing , " coach ken hitchcock said . " he 's getting challenged , he 's playing against top players , he 's killing all the penalties . "  the odds of pietrangelo getting more extremely heavy duty would seem to be high , given the stars and blues have met seven times with four going to overtime and one decided in a shootout . he can be a calming influence , although inside he 's going 100 mph .  " i 'm still amped up , you can ask my teammates , " pietrangelo said . " i 'm always on the go . "  dallas has a bit of goalie intrigue . coach lindy ruff yanked kari lehtonen after the blues ' three-goal first period in game 2 , and antti niemi finished strong , stopping 19 consecutive shots before backes got the winner in overtime .  san jose figures to be in prime position in nashville . the sharks led the nhl with 28 road wins and swept all three in los angeles in the first round , giving the team plenty of confidence .  " it 's good knowing that we have that , but that does n't guarantee anything , " said captain joe pavelski , who had the tiebreaking goal in a 3-2 victory in game 2 . " we understand this series is only to get tougher . "  the predators have come up empty thus far , but controlled play much of game 2 .  " we should be encouraged by the way we played , " defenseman mattias ekholm said . " bottom line , we just need to score a few more goals . you are n't going to win scoring one goal or two goals . "  the predators also must do a better job avoiding penalties and killing them when they do happen . san jose is 3 for 5 on the power play , including the first goal in game 2 capitalizing on  " we have to stay out of the box , " josi said . " they are so dangerous on the power play . "   lightning at islanders , series tied 1-1 , 7 p.m . edt , nbcsn  the islanders realize they 'll need a better effort coming home after dropping game 2 4-1 . the lightning have outscored them 6-2 the last four periods .  " we 've just got to make it a little harder and slow them , " captain john tavares said . " they 're obviously a quick team , make plays , skate well . we got to get a little bit more aggressive and hungry on the forecheck . "  the lightning limited the islanders to just eight shots the last two periods in game 2 after dropping the series opener 5-3 .  tyler johnson had two goals in game 2 for the lightning . they can also lean on a strong penalty-kill , which has allowed two goals in nine chances in this series , and just three in 34 overall in this postseason . . " just focus on our game and do what we can do and just play like we did ( in game 2 ) . "  the islanders faced a similar scenario in the first round against florida , splitting the first two games on the road . new york won three of four to close out that series in six games .  " they 're playing pretty aggressive , but i think mostly it 's just us looking ourselves in the mirror and just being better , " tavares said .