Hogan 'pleased' with resignation of school construction chief after air ...
http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/politics/bs-md-air-conditioning-reax-20160512-story.html

hogan ' pleased ' with resignation of school construction chief after air-conditioning dispute  kamenetz says installing portable air conditioners under timetable of hogan and franchot would be impossible .  gov . larry hogan said thursday he 's " very pleased " with the decision of the state 's school construction chief to resign amid the ongoing battle over school air conditioning in baltimore city and county .  david lever has headed the interagency committee on school construction , a state agency that reviews school construction projects and spending , since 2003 .  on wednesday , lever criticized the vote by hogan and comptroller peter franchot on the board of public works to withhold $15 million from baltimore city and county school systems unless they install portable air conditioners in schools over the summer .  lever said the decision politicized school construction funding and prompted his decision to step down , effective in september .  hogan said he 's glad to see him go .  at a news conference in annapolis , the republican governor called lever " a major part pleased with his resignation , " hogan said . " my only regret is it does n't take effect immediately .  " quite frankly , anyone who has the arrogance and the sense of entitlement that they do n't feel like they have to be accountable for their actions to the board of public works , to the people who are responsible for overseeing these things , does n't deserve to be working in state government , " hogan said .  lever declined to comment on the governor 's remarks . " i do n't have any response to that , " he said .  hogan 's statement came as politicians continued a war of words over school air-conditioning policies .  baltimore county executive kevin kamenetz , a democrat , issued a lengthy statement defending his position that installing portable air conditioners would be a poor use of taxpayer dollars compared to his plan to install central air conditioning in all schools by 2019 .  the state board of public works has voted to hold back millions of dollars in school construction money from baltimore and classrooms by the start of the next school year .  " in his desire to punish baltimore county and baltimore city , the governor intentionally misstated the county 's plan , refused multiple opportunities to be presented with the facts , and disregarded the clear legal advice of the attorney general of the state of maryland , " kamenetz wrote .  county officials say it 's logistically impossible to install air conditioners by the deadline set by hogan and franchot of the start of the next school year .  kevin smith , chief administrative and operating officer for the county school system , said state procurement laws outline steps for a project of this scale . the earliest the process could be completed is august 2017 , he said , if it started immediately .  the system would have to hire a consultant to design the work and have plans approved by the state , interagency committee on school construction , which could take until fall . if the iac gives the go-ahead , the school system then would give potential vendors a 30-day period to bid would approve a contract with a vendor . work could begin in february and wrap up in august , smith said .  there are provisions for speedier procurement for emergencies , he said , " but i do n't know if this qualifies as that . "  hogan does n't buy that argument , said spokesman douglass mayer .  " for years , the county executive has made excuses for his failure to ensure that all baltimore county students have access to suitable learning environments , " mayer said . " it comes as no surprise that he has yet another weak explanation to try and justify the deplorable conditions in these classrooms . no doubt he 'll have even more excuses next week . "  peter hamm , a spokesman for franchot , also dismissed the county 's timetable , saying of kamenetz : " if he wants to make it that hard , he can make it that hard . "  baltimore city and county are the only jurisdictions in the state with a significant number of classrooms that lack air conditioning . when 175 public school buildings lacked air conditioning . in baltimore , 76 schools lack air conditioning .  hogan and franchot have criticized leaders of both jurisdictions for not providing air conditioning for classrooms . franchot , a democrat , went on the " c4 show " on wbal radio thursday to continue to blast kamenetz .  " the foot-dragging by local elected officials for the last five years is a disgrace , " he said .  franchot said kamenetz is " committing a mass dereliction of duty " by allowing children to attend schools without air conditioning .