CBS says goodbye to Morley Safer of '60 Minutes' with TV special
http://www.newsday.com/entertainment/tv/cbs-says-goodbye-to-morley-safer-of-60-minutes-with-tv-special-1.11797994

morley safer is stepping down after 46 years as a correspondent for cbs ' " 60 minutes . " photo credit : getty images / andrew h. walker  highlights  acclaimed newsman retiring after 46 years with show  a background as war correspondent  one of the legends of television news -- also along with mike wallace and don hewitt the guiding force of " 60 minutes " since joining 46 years ago -- steps down sunday night . but how exactly is a network supposed to finally say goodbye to morley safer , 84 , who will be accorded an hourlong special at 8 p.m. on cbs/2 , " morley safer : a reporter 's life " ?  cbs has tried in recent days , but words have not come easily . asked on " cbs this morning " friday what was " so unique about morley , " " 60 minutes " correspondent steven kroft offered just one : " morley . "  in a phone interview earlier today , jeff fager , the executive producer of " 60 minutes " early years , " mike was the hard-hitting , tough interview , but morley brought the piece that in some ways invented the whole genre -- the beautifully written story , with his own observations . just about everything he did was an adventure in one way or another . "  safer joined " 60 minutes " in 1970 , after a long and journalistically brilliant slog through battlefields around the globe , many of them in vietnam . wanting to leave all that behind , he found another kind of battlefield on west 57th street . the " creative tension " at " 60 " was prized , also ferocious , exemplified by the combative styles of wallace ( who died in 2012 ) and hewitt ( in 2009 ) .  a calm amid the raging storm , the distinct " morley " style also found its way onto the screen , often in profiles ( jackie gleason ) , even occasionally in a few stories that brimmed with measured outrage ( safer 's 1983 piece about the wrongly convicted lenell geter helped set him free a few this sensibility was shaped by what safer had seen of war , imbued by a keen appreciation of the great pleasures of life . a bon vivant , he loved art , food and wine . he and his longtime producer john tiffin ( who died in 2010 ) also wandered the world . they boarded the orient express , visited a home for retired opera singers in italy , found tango dancers in finland . they helped -- mightily -- the u.s. wine industry with 1991 's " the french paradox " ( wine can lessen the risk of heart disease , safer almost gleefully reported ) .  those pieces were whimsical . a 1978 story called " the music of auschwitz " was heartbreaking .  you always sensed that safer had done it all , seen it all and somehow even felt it all . how does an hour special even begin to capture this legendary run ?  sign up for newsday 's entertainment newsletter for the latest on celebs , tv and more .