UTA board chair: Meetings closed because of Salt Lake Tribune's ...
http://kutv.com/news/local/uta-board-chair-meetings-closed-because-of-salt-lake-tribunes-coverage

( KUTV ) Just days after UTA announced it would close its committee meetings to the public as part of an effort to overhaul the transit authority and create more transparency , its board chairman is striking a much different tone .  " You really want to know the truth ? Because you screw us up , " Burton told a Tribune reporter Friday , according to the newspaper , in response to a question about why committee meetings will no longer be open .  Burton went on to criticize how the newspaper has reported past committee meetings , The Tribune reported , and said it is " intolerable " that many of UTA 's board members learn about issues from The Tribune instead of UTA itself since they do not always attend every committee meeting .  Interim UTA President and CEO Jerry Benson also accused The Tribune of making up facts in their stories , the newspaper reported .  Burton was unavailable for comment Friday , but Benson did make himself available .  " I think he expressed some of the Benson said , adding he agrees with Burton 's sentiment . " Occasionally , when the media reports something that is part of an informal discussion before the rest of the board has a chance to see it , that screws up the process of the board . "  Terry Orme , editor of The Salt Lake Tribune , said he finds that " troubling . "  Orme defended his paper 's coverage and said since UTA receives public money , it 's subject to scrutiny .  The move to close committee meetings has sparked public outcry . UTA officials told 2News earlier this week that while committee meetings will be closed , board meetings will still be open on a monthly basis .  " This is actually a board reform , " UTA spokesman Remi Barron told 2News in an interview Wednesday . " What we decided to do was to remove all of the functions from the committee meetings and put those with the full board . "  Committees made up of smaller groups of board members have typically discussed issues and made formal could lead to back-door deals made at closed-door committee meetings .  But Benson , the interim CEO , insists the change will make things better .  " We hope to have an opportunity to demonstrate that this will in fact improve public access to UTA and improve our transparency , " Benson said .