Man Sentenced To 32 Years In Killing Of Hartford Woman
http://www.courant.com/breaking-news/hc-hartford-murder-sentencing-0514-20160513-story.html

hartford -- eighteen months ago , luz nieves ' grieving family and friends came together at her funeral to cry over her sudden and tragic death , to remember her and to honor her .  on friday , they came together again inside a third-floor courtroom at the state courthouse on lafayette street to watch alex baez-franqui , the man who stabbed her and left her to die , receive a long prison sentence .  alex baez-franqui , 42 , pleaded guilty on march 16 to murder and agreed to a sentence of 32 years in prison . hartford superior court judge carl e. taylor imposed that sentence friday , but not before hearing from nieves ' family about how her murder continues to cause them great pain .  nieve 's mother , juanita ortega , was one of the people who found her daughter 's lifeless body on nov. 4 , 2014 , three days after baez killed her by repeatedly stabbing her .  police and family members went to nieves ' hanmer street apartment after nieves ' employer , travelers , two days . nieves , who was 45 , and baez had been in a dating relationship .  " that picture of her lying there is always in my mind , " juanita ortega wrote in a letter read by nieves ' daughter , ashley trochez . " alex left her lying there like a bag of garbage . " he then stole her car , her phone and emptied her bank accounts , she said .  trochez told the judge that she , too , was deeply troubled that baez left her mother to die . " my mother was just left there ... for three days , ... like she was nothing . "  trochez said her mother was a strong and independent woman who also had a silly side . she said she is deeply saddened that her mother will not be able to watch her grandson grow up .  " mom was taken from me when i needed her most , and it kills me she is n't here to see how i turned out , " she said .  still , her mother . hating him , she said , would consume her life . " i will not allow him to take another life , " she said .  juan ortega described his younger sister , who was also known as lucy , as a mother , a sister , a cousin , an aunt and a grandmother who was loved by her family . he said she was happy and energetic and took great pride in her daughter and her grandson .  " alex is not fit to live in society , " ortega said . " he needs to live the rest of his life behind bars . "  prosecutor anne mahoney told the judge that she made the plea offer of 32 years in prison in exchange for a guilty plea to murder because of the uncertainty of a trial . baez told police he was high on crack cocaine when he killed nieves , and a jury could have returned a verdict of manslaughter , which has a maximum sentence of 20 years , mahoney said . she described baez as a " predator prison sentence .  baez 's public defender , claudia jones , told the judge that baez has wanted to apologize to nieves ' family since shortly after the crime . she said he was a heavy user of alcohol and narcotics , which began during his troubled childhood . " he himself is shocked by what happened and what he did , but he does take full responsibility for what he did , " she said .  although he at first insisted he was guilty only of manslaughter because he was on drugs at the time of the crime , baez eventually came around , jones said .  he apologized to nieves ' family on friday and said he took full responsibility for what he did . " i want to say i 'm sorry , " he said .  the judge called baez 's crime " monstrous , wicked and depraved , " and said he was struck by baez 's decision to steal from nieves after he killed her .  " mr. baez , you took a person who was a hard worker , and had the love of family and friends , " taylor said . " this is just a horrific act and it 's deprived a family of a loved one and society of a person who appeared to be nothing but absolutely good . "