Led Zeppelin's Laywers Accuse Spirit of 'Tainting the Jury Pool' in ...
http://ultimateclassicrock.com/led-zeppelin-spirit-jury-pool/

As the copyright infringement lawsuit between Spirit and Led Zeppelin gets closer to its trial date , the defendants continue to fight back . Today ( May 24 ) , lawyers for Led Zeppelin suggested that Spirit are " playing to the press " and " tainting the jury pool . "  The Hollywood Reporter quotes a brief filed that reads , " Plaintiff 's motion is a PR stunt in the hope of tainting the jury pool . Despite being told that Jimmy Page , Robert Plant and John Paul Jones fully intend to appear at the trial , plaintiff 's counsel misrepresented to the Court at the April 25 , 2016 Pretrial Conference that Messrs . Page , Plant and Jones ' are refusing to appear in this court in the claims against them , ' and plaintiff 's counsel repeated that misrepresentation to news cameras on the Courthouse steps , causing a flurry of press reports repeating plaintiff 's false accusation . When those reports died down , plaintiff triggered renewed reports of his misrepresentation by now filing a belated motion that is playing to the press . "  Although a U.S. District Judge 's ruling last month removed the last hurdle for the case to go to trial , Led Zeppelin 's lawyers once again voiced their opposition to the case , adding , " There simply is no merit to plaintiff 's attempt to pursue a 45-year-old claim that the actual copyright owner and Randy Wolfe never bothered to file . "  The estate of Randy Wolfe , whose stage name was Randy California , and former Spirit bassist Mark Andes are suing Led Zeppelin on the grounds that the introduction to " Stairway to Heaven " is very similar to their song , " Taurus , " that appeared on Spirit 's 1968 debut . Led Zeppelin 's first U.S. concert was as Spirit 's opening act . The plaintiff 's lawyers have said that they would be willing to settle the case for $1 and a share of the songwriting royalties . The trial is expected to begin June 14 .  Welcome back to Ultimate Classic Rock  It appears that you already have an account created your personal information safe , we need to verify that it 's really you . To activate your account , please confirm your password . When you have confirmed your password , you will be able to log in through Facebook on both sites .  Welcome back to Ultimate Classic Rock  It appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . To connect your existing account just click on the account activation button below . You will maintain your existing VIP profile . After you do this , you will be able to always log in to http : **25;1743;TOOLONG using your original account information .