Wrong number leads to dozens of inappropriate texts
http://www.kwwl.com/story/32068082/2016/05/25/wrong-number-leads-to-dozens-of-inappropriate-texts

As a wife and mother to two young children living in the Iowa country side , she tells KWWL she feels violated by the crude messages she has received day and night over the last 48 hours .  Not wanting to be identified for the safety of her family , this Iowa mother 's nightmare started two days ago with this 2 a.m. text asking " for a quickie in a discrete location . "  " Okay he must of just dialed the wrong number , ha ha funny . Then I got four or five more of them , " said the mother .  Desperate to make them stop , she Googled her number and found a prostitution website .  " This ad is using my phone number , " said the mother .  Using it to solicit business " for a late night treat , " with " Diamond Rose . "  " Every stay-at-home mom with two young children 's nightmare . They are not something you want to wake up and read . Not even like one to the twenty random phone calls , " said the mother .  She has sent a request to have the ads taken down , but has received no answer .  Contacting Cedar Rapids Police where " Diamond Rose " appears to be located , she was told to change her number .  " So I am suppose to inconvenience myself , so that someone can run an illegal prostitution ring ? So that somebody can go out and sell themselves ? So they can get their drugs and they can run their prostitution ring and use my number to do so ? The problem with it is , that it is n't just going to happen to me . It is going to happen to somebody else and the next person and the next person , " said the mother .  KWWL spoke to Cedar Rapids Police as well . They would not say whether telling a victim to change their number was standard procedure , if they get a lot of victims like this or if they were investigating this website .  The mother will the number she has had for nearly 10 years , but she says she would like to see the website taken down by authorities .