Steve Kerr Pulled Another Rabbit Out Of His Hat And Ah Fuck It Was ...
http://deadspin.com/steve-kerr-pulled-another-rabbit-out-of-his-hat-and-ah-1781964938

By now we all know the story of Nick U'Ren , the Warriors lackey who , during last year 's Finals , famously suggested to the team 's coaching staff that they start Andre Iguodala for the first time all season . It was a feel-good anecdote to take away from a Finals that at times bordered on nihilistic -- a perfect bow on top of a magical , fairytale season .  But perhaps more importantly , the story of U'Ren 's helped foster the idea that the Warriors as a franchise were just different from the rest of the NBA . This thesis would later be spelled out by team co-owner Joe Lacob in a New York Times Magazine cover story in which he said his organization was " light-years ahead " of the rest of the league .  Steve Kerr was probably just being a good boss when he dropped U'Ren 's name in a press conference after Golden State flipped the series with a win in Game 4 , but the residual effect of the U'Ren story becoming public was a deepening Warriors ' owner , general manager , coach , and players smarter than yours , but their ballboy is , too . And like every great Silicon Valley companies , the franchise is a meritocracy , where the best ideas float to the top , no matter where they originated .  Advertisement  It did n't really matter that what U'Ren proposed was far from radical . As he explained to Tim Kawakami recently , the Warriors had used their now-vaunted Death Lineup during the 2014-2015 regular season , and had observed its prowess . U'Ren merely suggested that they begin the game with it . Anyway , it might not have mattered had Draymond Green and Stephen Curry not unclenched their sphincters , or had David Lee not risen from the crypt , or had Andre Igoudala not made a long succession of jumpers he often misses , or had LeBron James -- many months before the creation of the Mr. Krabs meme -- not suddenly found himself throwing court-warping passes to James Jones and Mike Miller .  Rarely does one key unlock a championship . The Warriors a cute story . Then , this season , the Death Lineup started ravaging the league , turning the Warriors into a traveling circus poised to break an unbreakable record and , well , you can probably understand why they started getting high on their own supply .  Sponsored  This brings us , unexpectedly , to James Michael McAdoo . McAdoo was a five-star recruit out of high school with impeccable genes . He chose to attend UNC , where he was kind of a bust . He went undrafted , but the Warriors liked him just enough to shuttle him between their D-League team in Santa Cruz and the end of the bench in Oakland . He picked up some garbage time scraps , averaging six-and-a-half minutes played across 41 games , shooting roughly twice per game . He was about as important to the Warriors ' historic season as the hot dog vendor .  And then , all of a sudden , after being left inactive for much of the playoffs , McAdoo was jogging onto the floor in this year 's thrillingly well-played Game 4 Cavs before inevitably clinching their second straight championship at home in a game that would be a mere coronation for a budding dynasty that could go down as one of the NBA 's greatest . McAdoo made a few good plays , scoring at the rim once and dishing to Shaun Livingston for a layup . Curry , Klay Thompson , and Harrison Barnes rained down threes , Iguodala played cephalopodic defense , and that was that .  But what McAdoo did on the court was less important than the fact that Kerr unsheathed him in the first place -- a magician unveiling his boldest trick yet . You could feel the reverence for the Warriors ' sorcery when , through some sort of clerical error or trickery , McAdoo was initially announced as the replacement for the suspended Green in the Game 5 starting lineup . The Warriors were set to make the Cavs disappear on live TV once again , and this time the degree of difficulty was going to blow your mind .  Alas , you know what happened . With Draymond watching the game from lineup , and the Warriors got carved up by LeBron James and Kyrie Irving , both of whom had unusually hot jumpers but also encountered little resistance at the basket . McAdoo played eight minutes , picking up two rebounds and three fouls . He did n't shoot once . He was what we thought he was : an athletic but green big man who can shuffle his feet but who ca n't really shoot or score or protect the rim . In his eight minutes on the court , the Warriors were outscored by 10 points .  Advertisement  It 's fine for James Michael McAdoo to be useless . He 's 23 and has barely played in the NBA . But that he carried the implication of being this year 's sequel to last year 's checkmate -- ? for even just a moment -- means that we , just like Joe Lacob himself , have the Warriors fucked up . They are not wizards . They can not see into the future . They are ? reaching desperately ? to plug leaks , like every team must incredible basketball players , but James Michael McAdoo is n't one of them . He is n't saving anyone from anything .