Terrorist's Wife Knew Of, Abetted Plans
http://www.powerlineblog.com/archives/2016/06/terrorists-wife-knew-of-abetted-plans.php

terrorist 's wife knew of , abetted plans  noor zahi salman , the wife of orlando terrorist omar mateen , is cooperating with the fbi and reportedly has admitted that she knew of her husband 's plan to commit mass murder . she says she tried to talk him out of it , but did n't report him to law enforcement .  it sounds as though salman was more than a passive observer . reportedly , she helped her husband to scout locations for a possible attack , including the pulse night club , where she went by herself more than once . she also acknowledges being present when mateen bought a holster and ammunition , so she knew about his purchase of firearms . if what is being reported is correct , she presumably will be charged as an accessory to her husband 's crimes .  ms. salman , an attractive young woman , is described as a member of " a well-to-do palestinian family who emigrated to california from ramallah , in the west bank , in the 1970s . "  and attempted terrorism we have seen in the u.s. is that family and friends of would-be terrorists often know of their plans , or at least their radical leanings , and nevertheless support them . it is hard to understand how a wife could know that her husband intends to carry out a massacre and do nothing to stop it , but that apparently is what happened here . maybe it 's a cultural difference .  we have seen something similar in the somali community in minnesota , as scott described in his reports on the recent criminal trial of three " minnesota men . " as best one can tell , most members of that community supported and sympathized with the defendants even though the evidence made it abundantly clear that they wanted to serve isis . those who point out , correctly , that terrorists represent only a small portion of the muslim population generally fail to note that even though they may act alone or in a small group , they rely on the silence , or even the support , of a larger segment of the @ @