Brands: Learn the Language to Get the Most Out of Social
http://www.adweek.com/socialtimes/ethan-martin-bukwild-guest-post-language-of-social/641488

Brands : Learn the Language to Get the Most Out of Social  The rise of digital , and social media in particular , has opened loads of new pathways for brands and consumers to connect , with even more platforms continuing to emerge . But the nature of these new channels has changed the way brands and consumers connect and , therefore , it comes with a whole new set of rules .  Luckily , the common denominator is pretty simple : Be human . OK , to be fair , brands ca n't really be human , and proposing that they could be shows no respect to humanity . So what 's a brand to do ? Being self-aware enough to understand your role in the conversation is a good place to start . Here are some things to keep in mind :  It 's not about you  With social media in particular , people use it to escape , even if only for a few moments . They escape by connecting with their friends , or people they wish were their 's important to keep that in mind when you try to interject . We 've all met some jerk at a party who keeps interrupting and trying to change the topic of conversation to themselves . No one likes that jerk , so do n't be that jerk .  Add something valuable  Ever been in a group conversation with someone who keeps chiming in , always a little off-topic , and it seems like they do n't quite get what 's going on , but they desperately want to be included ? You do n't want to be that poor wretch , either . Spend some time listening to the conversations that are happening , and ask yourself honestly if you have something valuable to add . No , truly stop and ask yourself : If I were talking with my friend about x , and someone else interjected with y , would I appreciate it , or get annoyed ? Now think about how you want users to feel about your brand .  Listen before speaking  Every digital channel , just like every conversation , has customs are often fluid and may not be immediately apparent to an outsider . At first glance , Snapchat is all about video . So would a cut-down of a highly produced broadcast spot make sense there ? No , it would n't . Pay attention to the nuance of the language .  Another example : People are communicating with emojis everywhere , but does it make sense for your brand to use emojis ? Does it come naturally ? Do you know all of the double-entendres associated with your chosen emoji ? Spend some time watching and listening to get to know the local customs before you inadvertently make a faux pas . Credibility is your brand 's backbone : Do n't risk it over something silly .  Mind your manners  If you 're noticing a pattern here , it 's that these are all basically ground rules for partaking in civilized conversation . This sometimes requires sensitivity . As much as a brand wants to find a relevant way to join conversations , it 's equally important to know when to shut up . No one 's passing or national disaster . Even if the sentiment is kind , too often it comes off as opportunistic and tacky . Sometimes the best way to show respect is by staying silent .  Be yourself  Every other item on this list is about understanding others , but all is for naught if you do n't understand yourself . Every brand has something honest and valuable to offer , and that 's what you should be talking about . Because all of this is really about making connections based on common values , and if you 're true to yourself , the people who share your values will take notice .  When you 're planning a social campaign or any sort of communication on the web , keep these things in mind . Remember that your brand will never be human , but a little situational and self-awareness goes a long way toward ensuring that people can connect with you on a human level .  Ethan Martin is the director of user strategy at digital agency Bukwild .  Subscribe to Adweek  Featured Courses  and digital outreachLearn more &gt;Digital Content StrategyApply your editorial skills to create an effective content strategyLearn more &gt;Copywriting for Social MediaMaximize your clicks , shares , retweets , and pinLearn more &gt;Skills in 60 : How to Name Your Brand or ProductDevelop a unique name for any brand , product , or businessLearn more &gt;See more Courses &gt;