National Cherry Festival Celebrates the Fourth of July
http://www.9and10news.com/story/32366361/national-cherry-festival-celebrates-the-fourth-of-july

national cherry festival celebrates the fourth of july  on the fourth of july , we celebrate the freedoms so many americans have fought for .  now , in its 90th year , the national cherry festival always coincides with independence day and makes sure to recognize this special holiday .  with fourth of july celebrations happening all across northern michigan , the national cherry festival is no exception .  " the cherry festival and the fourth of july have been partnered together for a number of years , " explained jamie callahan , president of the national cherry festival . " it 's really a best of both worlds . "  as they do every year , the national cherry festival is bringing in the boom boom club to put on a large fireworks display .  " they 'll have a whole set-up at the top of the open space deck area for the fireworks . we 're able to celebrate our independence with that , " callahan said .  and fireworks are just one of several exciting holiday displays featuring the navy blue angels happens on the fourth of july .  there 's hardly a more perfect way to honor our independence .  " a lot of people love coming to a community like traverse city because it does such a great job having a big ole ' party and really celebrating the fact that we 're blessed to be in this beautiful , free country and live our lives the way we want to , " said pure michigan 's vice president , dave lorenz .  people come from all over -- some for the first time , while others have made it a tradition .  the hope is to make northern michigan a favorite destination for all .  " maybe they 'll come here during a festival , kind of like an open window , to get people here for the first time , " lorenz said . " but once they come here , they 'll come back . "  the air show starts at 1:15 p.m .  come on out and enjoy the fireworks .  they start at days left of the festival , there is plenty to look forward to , even after july fourth .  fireworks and parades may symbolize how we celebrate the fourth of july , but there as many reasons for that celebration as stars on the flag . today , millions across the us are celebrating independence day .  fireworks and parades may symbolize how we celebrate the fourth of july , but there as many reasons for that celebration as stars on the flag . today , millions across the us are celebrating independence day .