Forecast clear for today's Fourth of July celebrations
http://kdhnews.com/news/local/forecast-clear-for-today-s-fourth-of-july-celebrations/article_af7a081a-4199-11e6-821d-3f010e25ae40.html

at 4 p.m. at hood stadium on the post , music , food and entertainment will be available to the general public . at 4:30 p.m. the military police will host a working dog demo , showcasing the military working dogs that serve on fort hood .  at 6 p.m. there will be a salute to the nation ceremony , celebrating u.s. independence . the salute will include a live cannon fire after the calling of the name of each state in the nation .  at 6:45 p.m. , live bands , starting with the 1st cavalry band , will take the stage at hood stadium .  at 9:30 p.m. , a 30-minute fireworks display choreographed to patriotic music will cap off the evening .  for those who want to watch the fireworks , but do n't want to drive directly onto fort hood , central texas college invites the public onto its campus to view the display , as well as enjoy carnival-style games and concessions during the evening .  every year , some people attempt to park along u.s. highway killeen police department reminds motorists that it is illegal to stop , stand or park on a controlled access highway . motorists could receive a citation for disobeying these laws .  members of the general public driving privately owned vehicles must enter and exit clear creek gate ( through the left visitor lane for access ) or obtain a pass from the visitor welcome center .  drivers and passengers 18 and older must have a valid photo id .  parades  in belton , more than 30,000 people annually gather for the belton fourth of july independence parade . the annual event starts at 10 a.m. on main street at 10th avenue , travels south on main street to central avenue , turns east on central avenue , turns left on birdwell and ends on fourth avenue .  in 2008 , usa today named the belton fourth of july parade as one the nation 's " top ten places to fly your flag on the 4th . "  the annual neighborhood parade in temple 's historic and garden district is at 9 a.m. today , starting and french avenue . the parade will then head up ninth street toward nugent avenue . the parade route is residential , but residents say their lawns are available for guests .  the parade route will be in the parking lot behind the ctc child development center ( building 117 ) . children in the program will march to patriotic music and ride " floats " of decorated bikes , wagons and tricycles as part of the festivities .  fireworks  temple will hold its annual fireworks show at 9:30 p.m. today at miller park . the park gates will open at 4 p.m. , and inflatables , the splash pad , and food and craft vendors will all be available . entrance to the park is free to the public .  gatesville also will hold a fireworks display at 9:30 p.m. today . the fireworks will be launched from mckamie stadium at the high school football field . the event is free and open to the public .  for residents hoping to have their personal fireworks shows , there is good news and bad news . , coryell and lampasas counties have all lifted their burn bans until today .  this means that fireworks -- excluding missiles with fins or rockets that fire from sticks planted in the ground -- are acceptable in the unincorporated parts of these counties .  the fire marshal cautioned people against being too aggressive with their fireworks , as even after the heavy rain recently , the area is still dry and fires could start easily .  however , fireworks are not allowed in the city limits of any city within the county . this includes killeen , harker heights , nolanville , belton , copperas cove , gatesville and lampasas .  other events  belton is running a carnival for the fourth of july weekend . all rides are available for one special price . today , the carnival is open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.