Danone's Acquisition of WhiteWave Creates Food Advertising ...
http://www.wsj.com/articles/danones-acquisition-of-whitewave-creates-food-advertising-behemoth-1467911846

danone 's acquisition of whitewave creates food advertising behemoth  the food companies spent more than $200 million combined on u.s. advertising last year  enlarge  whitewave , which is known for organic products like silk soy milk and earthbound farm packaged salads , has agreed to sell to danone sa in a deal that would create a formidable advertising spender . photo : whitewave foods  danone , known for its yogurt products like activia and actimel , said the deal with whitewave will expand its portfolio with nondairy and organic products , like almond and soy milk brand silk , horizon organic milk , wallaby organic yogurt and earthbound farm packaged salads .  last year , paris-based danone spent about $121.7 million on measured media in the u.s. , according to ad spending tracker kantar media . meanwhile , whitewave spent about $81.4 million last year , the firm estimated . kantar 's data include ad spending on media ranging from television to magazines to web display , but do n't include some forms of internet advertising , such as web video . indicate that the merged company could rival snack-foods company mondelez international inc. , maker of oreos and ritz crackers , in ad spending . mondelez spent $154.7 million in the u.s. last year , according to kantar . they are all still a long shot from food advertising giant kraft foods inc. , which shelled out $510.1 million in 2015 .  to be sure , companies often target advertising as a source of cost savings , particularly after a major deal , and this would be danone 's largest acquisition in a decade . the merger also comes amid a wave of big advertisers rethinking their marketing budgets , slashing the number of agencies they work with and putting pressure on agency fees .  denver-based whitewave has been a fast-growing company in the sector in recent years , as demand for healthy and organic foods has transformed the food industry in the u.s. unlike many large food companies , sales of most of whitewave 's products are growing by double-digit percentages . the company reported net profit of $168 million on revenue of $3.9 billion in 2015 .  . distribution and use of this material are governed by our subscriber agreement and by copyright law . for non-personal use or to order multiple copies , please contact dow jones reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.