BREAKING: We Have Determined The Year And Model Of The ...
http://jalopnik.com/breaking-we-have-determined-the-year-and-model-of-the-1783277084

everyone , relax . i know things have been tense , but i assure you that everything is now under control . i say this because i can now report with confidence that we have successfully determined the year and model of the volkswagen beetle sitting on the ocean floor in pixar 's latest movie , finding dory . we 're going to be okay .  does this count as a spoiler alert ? maybe , if knowing the year of a cg background prop will kill your enjoyment of a talking fish movie . so , you 're warned .  i took my son to see the fish-based movie ( he 's fond of all sorts of fish-related entertainment ; an all-cod production of man of la mancha delighted him ) and noticed a prominent cameo of an old beetle patiently soaking on the ocean floor .  advertisement  once i saw it , i knew the global public had a right to know what year that beetle was , and , ideally , what model . i could n't let them down with envy at those preening bastards who can identify the year of any classic ... read more read more  the beetle is shown twice ; first from the rear , and then , in the post-credit sequence after the movie , from the front-quarter . the rear shot gave me a lot of crucial data , but i was n't able to confirm until i saw the front . after processing both images through my dedicated vw identificatron 2100 ( made from an odyssey 2 connected to a bunch of flea collars wired in parallel , for image processing ) , i had my answer :  it 's a 1962 beetle , a 1200 standard ( non-export ) model .  now , i need to explain why i think it 's a 1962 instead of a 1963 . the rear shot clearly established it as a ' 62 or ' 63 -- it has the three-chamber all-red taillights and the smaller , inverted cup-like license plate light . that combination only existed in 1962 or 1963 .  in the front , the visual difference is the presence . while that crest is absent here , i noted that the chrome strip on the hood seems a bit too short to reach all the way to the hood handle , suggesting a gap that once could have housed the small crest . that 's why i think this one is a ' 62 , just missing its crest after all those years in the deep . some crab is probably wearing it like a pendant .  advertisement  as far as the model goes , i know it 's a non-export 1200 beetle because the bumpers lack the ' towel rail ' overriders of the export cars . so , i suspect this bit of ocean floor is well outside us territorial waters .  as far as how it ended up there , i have no idea . but , since beetles have been known to float , at least for a bit , the range of where an ocean-going beetle may be is probably a bit larger than for most other cars .