Mother of Alton Sterling's son hires attorneys who represented family ...
http://www.wwltv.com/news/local/mother-of-alton-sterlings-son-hires-attorneys-who-represented-family-of-walter-scott/266557682

Stewart and Bamberg represented the family of Walter Scott , the South Carolina man who was shot and killed by North Charleston police officer Michael Slager . The shooting was captured on cellphone video . Slager was charged with murder . The family reached a multi-million settlement with the city of North Charleston .  Stewart is also representing the family of Chase Sherman , whose tasing death at the hands of Coweta County , Georgia deputies was captured on body-camera video , among many others .  The attorneys released the following statement :  " We are honored to have recently been hired to represent Quinyetta McMillon , the mother of Alton Sterling 's 15-year-old son , Cameron Sterling .  Our primary mission is to provide this grieving family with the answers they are seeking regarding the senseless shooting death of Alton Sterling  Thanks to multiple videos that captured the horrific incident , we know far more than we typically would , but many questions still remain .  We will demand transparency from the Baton Rouge police department and all other agencies every question has been answered .  We are not here to agitate or incite , but to simply follow the path to justice for this deserving family .  Our firm has sadly handled far too many of these high-profile tragedies at the hands of law enforcement . The names are a haunting reminder that none of them should have died . Walter Scott , Gregory Towns , Chase Sherman , Vincent Rowell , Bobby Daniels , Bryant Heyward and now Alton Sterling has sadly been added to this list . I fear what other names will be added in the future before we stem this epidemic .  To be clear , we appreciate the hard work and dedication of the vast majority of members of law enforcement . But when they fail to follow their extensive training and unnecessarily take a life , they must be held accountable .