Small Groups of Satellites Are More Accurate Because of Teamwork ...
http://gizmodo.com/small-groups-of-satellites-are-more-accurate-because-of-1783632952

different points of view are valuable when discussing any event or describing an object . sure , you might have your own analysis , but somebody else is going to have seen something different . by combining all angles , a clearer picture emerges .  the same concept can be seen in a recent mit study that found a cluster of three to eight small , " shoebox-sized satellites " are more accurate than a traditional , large satellite . since the smaller satellites have multiple angles , their measurements were around twice as accurate .  in a paper set to be published in acta **31;1398;toolong issue , researchers simulated how accurate a single orbiting satellite with nine sensors can measure albedo , or the amount of light reflected from earth , versus a cluster . those measurements were compared with the statistics gathered by nasa goddard 's cloud absorption radiometer , which can obtain data from thousands of different angles on a single spot . the more satellites were in the cluster , the more accurate the measurements .  advertisement  it makes earth is a three-dimensional object and has multiple angles of its own . in order to measure anything , you 'd need more than just a front-facing image .  " the earth does not reflect equally in all directions , " said research leader sreeja nag . " if you do n't get these multiple angles , you might under- or overestimate how much it 's reflecting , if you have to extrapolate from just one direction . "  sponsored  this is also useful if a researcher has to deal with a faulty satellite . if one of the pieces in a cluster fails , there will be others to provide backup . if you lose one solo satellite , you run the risk of losing all information . it 's the same in any team : if someone calls out sick , you 'll have someone to take over any workload .  more importantly , researchers emphasize that providing more accurate measurements of earth will help in the fight against climate change . by providing better estimates , scientists can calculate long-term trends and projections . one of the biggest uncertainties in climate change , because it is a complex function of where on earth you are , what season it is , what time of day it is , and it 's very difficult to ascertain how much heat leaves the earth ... if we can estimate the reflectance of different surface types , globally , frequently , and more accurately , which a cluster of satellites would let you do , then at least you 've solved one part of the climate puzzle . "  to replace every satellite with a cluster would be too expensive , but nag suggests at least using them in cases where satellites need to hold a strict formation . researchers added that they hope they can see something like this in play soon .  " our team fully expects that a demonstration mission of this type could be flown within the next decade , " said oli de weck , a professor with mit 's department of aeronautics and astronautics .