Is the economic contribution of grandparents underrated?
http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000192371/is-the-economic-contribution-of-grandparents-underrated

is the economic contribution of grandparents underrated ?  a grandparent , mburu mwikonyi now 93 . he fought in burma during wwii , mau mau and spent time in detention . he lives near nyahururu on the former white highlands . photo : x.n iraki  nairobi : we all look forward to aging gracefully when one day we shall watch our grandchildren chasing butterflies or running around in the rain .  with pride we will look back at the economic contribution we made to the country , while ensuring the perpetuation of human race . looking at kenya 's rising life expectancy , there is no doubt that the country will boast of more grandparents in future .  in kenya , everyone , from policy makers to churches seem focused on the youth . that is not unusual , the vibrancy of the youth attract a lot of attention , not necessary good . the youth have energy and are valued economically ; they work long hours , at times for low pay and are very innovative .  advertisers use them to of the good old days . the youth are well represented in crime and other vices , courtesy of energy . crime demands lots of energy . the politicians see their numbers as the route to power through voting or hired muscle men to intimidate opponents .  but with time , we all age . while being called mzee is a sign of respect , the person being called so does not really appreciate it , if he or she can be sincere . recently someone sent me a video clip of a three-year-old crying for being told she is three . she did not want to be old like her grandparents . we seem to fear aging quite early . nothing makes most people happier than when you misjudge his or her age downwards .  entrepreneurs know we would like to stay forever young . they make money selling lot of anti-aging products from hair dyes to drugs ( including viagra ) and cosmetics . and the market is big . even entertainment industry has not been left behind . one local fm radio station has built its days when the current middle aged men and women were young . there is something nostalgic when you listen to a song which was a hit when you were in form one or two .  one unintended consequence of aging is that you become lonelier . children often leave home and rarely return , except around christmas or if you have a problem . that loneliness scares me and a lot of other people . some grandparents are lucky and are taken care of by their children , while in the west they stay in nursing homes ; though that is catching up in kenya .  loneliness follows the elderly to the nursing homes . holding all factors constant , the best place to age is in your home , surrounded by familiar sites and people . with age , we lose our energy to perform economic tasks , culminating in retirement . that does not mark the end of economic usefulness . what role do the elderly , the grandparents play in our economy ? can we capture that in our gdp ?  first , even in the economy . economic growth is driven by both consumption and investment . the exact balance depends on the state of economy on growth . grandparents consume lots of products and services . one service they create a huge demand in is medical .  research shows that most of our medical expenses come early in life and later in the life . kenya 's proportion of the elderly is small compared with say japan , but it 's expected to rise . future entrepreneurs should better note . two , grandparents contributed to the economic growth when they were working through savings . that could be their private savings or compulsory ones like pension or insurance . that pension was not laying idle waiting for their retirement , it was invested . the beauty about pension is that its mandatory and lots of money is pooled together . if it 's well invested , it could make a big difference to the economy . pension forms one of the most reliable source of investment .  three , grandparents take care of the next generation . there are a number i found that very common in america 's deep south . some feel the grandparents are idle , and their slack time can be used in bringing up kids . the negative part of this is that grandparents are usually very kind , and likely to be spoilt kids . in some families there are strict guidelines that children should never be brought up by grandparents .  with rising number of children born to unmarried mothers , the number of kids raised by grandparents could rise . some argue that grandparents should be left alone to age gracefully without the hustles of raising kids . others argue they are rewarded for taking care of the next generation . it is keeps them company and busy while kids ' parents take care of their basic needs .