Supreme Court protected and cannot be disbanded
http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000192402/supreme-court-protected-and-cannot-be-disbanded/

Supreme Court protected and can not be disbanded  Some critics of the Supreme Court are smoking something . They are " high " on drama . Otherwise how can any sane lawyer -- or politician -- call for the disbandment of the Supreme Court ? The term " disband " the Supreme Court is not native to the Constitution . It 's an idiom that 's baseless in law and fact , and strange to the ears of Kenya 's democracy . It 's a nuclear option that 's only possible if the Constitution is overthrown in a revolution , or coup d ' ? tat . " Disbanding " the Supreme Court is akin to overthrowing the Constitution . Let 's not conflate the moral emptiness -- and alleged illegal conduct -- of some of the Supreme Court judges with the institution of the Supreme Court . Two plus two does n't equal six .  I fully understand the anger -- but in most cases -- the righteous indignation of some of the mandarins baying for the Supreme Court 's blood . Most of hands . Let 's take Majority Leader Aden Duale , for example . Mr Duale is like a robot stuck on repeat . He sees CJ Willy Mutunga 's ghost wherever he turns . He ca n't seem to open his mouth without attacking Dr Mutunga . Yet Dr Mutunga has never in his long legal and public career ever been implicated in single act of corruption . It 's Dr Mutunga who 's doing what no other CJ has done in history -- defrock corrupt judges . He has initiated far-reaching changes in the Judiciary . There are courts in far-flung corners of the republic for the first time .  Why would Mr Duale point fingers at Dr Mutunga when the National Assembly is reeking of corruption ? Speaker Justin Muturi beat a hasty retreat when MPs threatened to decapitate him over an EACC report that found massive fraud within the august house . I did n't hear Mr Duale call for Mr. Muturi 's resignation . Nor has he called for the resignation of his political mentors or associates who have been implicated in corrupt scandals . One vendetta against CJ Mutunga . Perhaps he wants CJ Mutunga out of the way so that his side can push for a partisan chief justice . A head of one of the arms of government to should n't launch bilious attacks against his counterparts .  Mr Duale 's claim against Dr Mutunga is that the CJ has " condoned " corruption in the Judiciary . Mr Duale needs to choose his words carefully . How exactly has CJ Mutunga " condoned " corruption ? Is n't the CJ fighting corrupt cartels tooth and nail ? In fact , one could make the case that Jubilee 's Uhuru Kenyatta -- Kenya 's CEO -- is the one who has condoned corruption in the executive in spite of empty anti-corruption talk . That 's because unlike CJ Mutunga , Mr Kenyatta can actually fire corrupt officers . Tellingly , Mr Kenyatta has n't cracked the whip , except when he reluctantly let go several ministers exposed in corruption scandals . I did n't hear Mr Duale call for Mr Kenyatta 's resignation .  I am not saying that justices of the allegations of graft or abuse of office . The Constitution provides a clear process of bringing corrupt judges to book . But picking on individual judges is n't the same thing as picking on the court itself . You ca n't -- and should n't -- throw the baby out with the bathwater . If individual justices are suspected of misconduct and corruption , then let the axe fall on them as individuals . But do n't go for CJ Mutunga 's neck as a proxy for bringing down the entire court . I believe this is the same tactic used by MPs to neuter the EACC and make it a compliant wing of the Executive .  There 's no doubt the matter of Justice of Philip Tunoi is scandalous . The accusation against him -- if proven -- will be astounding . In the event , Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero would have no choice but to resign in disgrace and face prosecution . More damaging will be the implication of such a finding on the other four judges who sat on that bench . It does n't take a not command four votes absent culpability by the others . As they say , one apple would taint the whole bunch . But we are a long way from there . Let 's not crucify Justice Tunoi , or the others , before all the evidence is tendered .  Finally , let 's say the obvious -- Kenya needs an unimpeachable Supreme Court . Dr Mutunga is retiring from the bench soon . His successor must be a person of the highest ethical and scholarly standards . The next CJ will have to finish what CJ Mutunga started . That 's why his successor must fight corruption in the Judiciary without pity . That 's why all the sitting justices of the Supreme Court must look in the mirror . They should go if they are tainted , and not destroy the Supreme Court by holding on .