Uganda must embrace a fair electoral process
http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000192393/uganda-must-embrace-a-fair-electoral-process/

uganda must embrace a fair electoral process  even before yoweri museveni had been declared president , observers of the ugandan elections were unequivocal . they concluded that the process was unfair , lacked credibility and was marked by irregularities .  but this deduction had been expected after the main opposition candidate kizza besigye was arrested three times as the tallying was going on . according to the 13-nation commonwealth observer group led by former nigerian president olusegun obasanjo , voter bribery and the misuse of state resources undermined the electoral process . the observers also raised issues about the competence , credibility and ability of the electoral commission to conduct fair elections and were particularly unhappy with the delays of supply of voting material to polling stations , particularly in kampala .  yet such election infractions are common in africa . by and large , most african countries have made a transition where there are cyclical elections that pave way for grassroots and nationals leaders to be elected to form representative governments under the duly elected head of state . however , even though these elections -- like the ugandan case has demonstrated -- are seldom , credible . often times violence has resulted when the outcome has been disputed , and kenyans are only too familiar with such consequences from the lessons learnt in 2007/2008 . after more than 1,000 deaths in kenya 's 2007 general election , recommendations for electoral reforms have largely been implemented , but mischief and mutual suspicion of the protagonists is undiminished .  it is not just elections that invite violence as recent events in burundi demonstrated . here the controversy over president pierre nkurunziza 's term limit led to an abortive coup d'etat and sporadic killings as the bujumbura government cracked down on demonstrators .  africa is replete with such examples . yet the continent provided one of the best examples of a leader who readily gave up power so that others could carry the leadership mantle . nelson mandela resisted pressure to run for a second term and graciously allowed others to take over after being elected as the first black president in post-apartheid south africa .  african leaders must borrow from this legacy who hold on to power even when their time to relinquish office has come , do a great disservice to those they govern .