Garissa, Embu come out top in health delivery in Kenya - survey
http://www.the-star.co.ke/news/2016/10/05/garissa-embu-come-out-top-in-health-delivery-in-kenya-survey_c1432785

garissa and embu counties have the best health services in kenya , an annual assessment by the health ministry shows .  the two beat the other 45 counties because of their latest innovations to improve drugs supply , and for reducing maternal deaths by encouraging more poor women to deliver in health facilities .  garissa was rated the best performing county , while embu came second .  all counties , parastatals and health departments had submitted reports on their best practices to the ministry for the annual performance review .  " the ministry of health has developed criteria for selection of best practices governed by various attributes of the best practice such as its efficiency , cost- effectiveness , community involvement and sustainability , " said health cs cleopa mailu on wednesday .  mailu said garissa encourages more poor women to give birth in health facilities through the maternal shelters .  mothers from far-flung areas live in these shelters as they await delivery and for more days after giving birth .  they also get the ' mama kit ' , also gives traditional birth attendants and community health extension workers sh200 for every mother they take to a health facility for delivery .  the attendants are present during delivery for moral support while in some occasions , they can assist the skilled worker .  embu county was awarded mainly for its successful whatsapp county commodity committee that ensures all the sub-county health facilities have enough supplies all the time .  " innovativeness and inventiveness is underscored in embu county where the whatsapp mobile phone application is utilised in pharmaceutical commodity management , " the ministry said .  area governor martin wambora said his government has constructed and fully equipped many dispensaries and upgraded health centres throughout the county .  " the health of our people is not negotiable . we have made healthcare a key priority . we are also building kenya 's second largest icu facility after the one at kenyatta national hospital , " he said .  kajiado county took the third position for enhancing healthcare services for mothers and children under-five while the moi teaching and referral hospital was commended for introducing  the other top counties are west pokot , kiambu and kericho .  the annual performance review started in 2003 , to enhance sustainable economic growth and development .  this year the awards focused mainly on best practices in different areas such as health infrastructure , human resources and service delivery in 2015 .  the programme is funded by the japan international co-operation agency ( jica ) .  thank you for participating in discussions on the star , kenya . note that :  unwarranted personal abuse and defamatory statements will be deleted .  strong personal criticism is acceptable if justified by facts and arguments .