Ukambani professionals vow to work with Mutua to promote growth
http://www.standardmedia.co.ke/article/2000195541/ukambani-professionals-vow-to-work-with-mutua-to-promote-growth

Ukambani professionals vow to work with Mutua to promote growth  Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua holds hands with other leaders from Bahamanian and professionals from the region as a show of unity after they formed region 's professionals ' caucus in Machakos yesterday . PHOTO : JOHN MUIA  Machakos , Kenya : Over 2,000 professionals drawn from the three counties of Ukambani said leaders from the region should focus on developing the region or face losing in the next elections . The professionals said they would deliberately campaign to have these leaders voted out .  Speaking during a consultative meeting for professionals drawn from Machakos , Makueni and Kitui counties and hosted by Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua at the Kenyatta Stadium grounds , the experts said they had a critical role to play to promote political maturity and economic prosperity .  Dr Mutua ( pictured ) , who addressed the professionals , said he would not be discouraged by leaders who are seeking to stop him pursue his agenda .  " I want to tell them that the journey from the bondage of Those opposing my philosophy of accelerated development will be swept by raging waters of prosperity , " said Mutua .  He said great inroads had been made to improve various areas in Machakos county , citing improved roads , healthcare , security , water and agriculture as examples .  " Let them continue making noise and hurling insults at me . I will continue doing God 's work which is that of serving the people of Machakos and Ukambani at large , " said Mutua .  The Chairman of the Railways Corporation Board of Directors , General Rtd Jeremiah Kianga , said leaders should focus on meeting the needs of local people and place less emphasis on politicking .  " It is morally fraudulent for the political class to continually engage in toxic politics while our people continue to wallow in abject poverty , " said Gen Kianga .  Yesterday 's meeting was attended by professionals from the government and the private sector .  The Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) of the Film Classification Board , Mr Ezekiel Mutua , who read the resolutions also pledged to establish an Ukambani Bank to provide affordable credit to local people to help them establish businesses and grow the economy of the region .  " Political leaders need to be judged by what they have done , not empty politics , " said the CEO , while reading the resolutions .  During the meeting , committees were formed to spearhead promote unity in the region and boost wealth creation .