BETTING: FA Cup: A chance for redemption
http://www.goal.com/en-ke/news/5128/betting/2016/04/21/22637482/betting-fa-cup-a-chance-for-redemption

betting : fa cup : a chance for redemption  featured  related stories  rick john henry  0  apr 21 , 2016 13:13:02  two sumptuous fa cup semi-finals offer a chance for underperforming clubs to give their fans something to shout about this weekend  everton 's failure to hold on to yet another lead in the home draw with southampton last weekend means that the toffees have dropped an astounding 18 points from winning positions this season . the midweek thumping at liverpool extended their winless run in the premier league to seven matches . there are a variety of other stats that can be brought to light to prove that everton ( 3.25 ) come into this clash in wretched shape . only romelu lukaku provides respite for toffees fans with 25 goals from 43 appearances this season and his presence could cause the manchester united back four all kinds of problems , as he did when scoring a hat-trick against them while on loan at west brom .  there 's no doubt that manchester united manager louis van gaal trafford faithful . manchester united ( 2.18 ) currently reside only a point from the champions league spots and despite a decent run of recent form , would still have to do very well to seal a place in next season 's european elite . the fa cup is a more tangible target for united 's under-fire manager and there is little doubt that he will choose to roll out his best eleven for this clash . the red devils have won both premier league meetings with everton this season , scoring four goals and conceding none .  on sunday , crystal palace host watford with both clubs almost certainly safe from premier league relegation . crystal palace ( 2.42 ) have had a woeful season by their standards yet only something mathematically catastrophic could prevent them from participating in the top flight next term . however , one feels that change must be on the cards as , similar to everton , a club boasting such quality in its ranks should be pursuing far loftier ambitions . perhaps securing the fa cup will be alan pardew 's only saving contenders , watford ( 2.95 ) have punched well above their weight this season and will be pleased with the way it has transpired . sure , they 've dropped off in form in recent times and without a final push , will drop further down the league . yet survival would have been the only goal as the season begun and with that already achieved , an unprecedented fa cup trophy would be the icing on the cake . watford 's only appearance in an fa cup final was back in 1984 , losing 2-0 to everton .