Matiangi condemns Kisii parents of tribalism
http://www.hivisasa.com/kisii/education/134231

Cabinet sectary of education Fred Matiang'i has strongly condemned parents who demanded their community school to be headed by someone of their one of their own .  Matian'gi condemned the claim of parents and the community at large who forcefully chase away school heads in the name that they want the schools to be headed by someone from their community or clan  " It 's foolish for a parent to close the principal 's office because he or she does not belong to your clan or community because this does not contribute toward better results at all , " Said Matian'gi .  He added that the act is majorly practiced most in Kisii community whereby he gave an example of schools that have previously done that .  " I ask parents to look at the positive side of the good results in their children instead of concentrating on tribalism which does not add value in education , " said Matiang'i .  He also added that the withdrawal of children from schools in the name that the school head does not belong to in terms of academics and the number of students .  " It 's time to wake up and participate in the positive results of our children as parents , " said Matian'gi .  The CS said that the ignorance of parents gives their children room of indiscipline and disrespect towards their teachers which is a factor that leads them to the road of failure .  He added that the ministry of education does not consider teachers strongholds for it to post teachers in their community schools .  " Schools are headed by the government and not communities and the government employs teachers , " said Matiang'i .  " So no day will the government consider your tribe or clan for it to post you to that school where your clan need you , " he added .  He urged parents to unite with teachers and work together in bettering their children 's education .  He also urged them to change their perspectives of ancient times by chasing teachers from schools since they are not of their tribes .