Uhuru meets top Sports officials after WADA non-compliance order
http://www.the-star.co.ke/news/2016/05/13/uhuru-meets-top-sports-officials-after-wada-non-compliance-order_c1350299

The President held talks with top sports officials on Friday after WADA said Kenya did not comply with its anti-drugs code , throwing doubt onathletes ' participation in the Rio Olympics .  Kenya passed legislation in April to criminalise doping , but WADA said on Thursday it needed to make changes to ensure compliance with the code , which sets a framework for consistent rules and policies around the world .  Kenya , for decades a leading power in middle- and long-distance running , now faces the risk of missing the August 5-21 Games in Rio de Janeiro if the International Olympic Committee so decides .  President Uhuru Kenyatta , Sports CS Hassan Wario and others met " over WADA compliance issues " , State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu wrote on his Twitter account . He did not give further details .  WADA had given Kenya until May to enact the anti-doping law or be declared non-compliant . The president signed the new legislation into law on April 22 .  But WADA President Craig Reedie said on Thursday that it was not We have been working with Kenya for a number of years and thought we had agreed that the draft legislation and rules were entirely compliant , " he said .  " It would appear that during their parliamentary process changes were made that unfortunately were n't code-compliant , so we will be in touch with Kenya to try and resolve that at the earliest possible moment . "  Kenyan athletes won two gold medals , four silvers and five bronze at the last Olympics in London .  Up to 40 Kenyan athletes have failed doping tests since 2012 , the biggest name among them being former three-time Boston City Marathon and Chicago Marathon champion , Rita Jeptoo , now serving a ban .  Kenyan running great Kipchoge Keino , who is chairman of the National Olympic Committee ofKenya ( NOCK ) , called WADA 's move " very unfortunate " but said his government had not acted quickly enough against doping .  Thank you for participating in discussions on The Star , Kenya . Note that :  Unwarranted personal abuse and defamatory statements will be by facts and arguments .