Brazil name Tite as new coach
http://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2016/06/16/brazil-name-tite-new-coach/

Football Football  Brazil name Tite as new coach  After a disappointing performance at Copa America , Brazil chooses a new coach to revive the five-time Word Cup champion squad.PHOTO/courtesy .  SAO PAULO , Brazil , June 15 -- Corinthians boss Tite was named as the new coach of Brazil on Wednesday , succeeding Dunga , who was sacked after the team 's humiliating exit from the Copa America , the president of his club revealed .  Tite no longer works at Corinthians . He accepted the invitation from the Brazilian Football Confederation ( CBF ) , " said the Sao Paulo club 's president , Roberto de Andrade .  Tite , 55 , led Corinthians to a double of the regional Copa Libertadores and Club World Cup in 2012 .  He takes over from former Brazil captain Dunga , who failed to turn the team around sufficiently after their embarrassing 7-1 World Cup semi-final thrashing by Germany on home soil in 2014 .  The Brazilian Football Confederation has not confirmed the appointment , but officials there met with Tite on Leonardo Bacchi -- has coached a string of top clubs in Brazil , including Gremio , Atletico Mineiro and Palmeiras .  He has spent three trophy-studded stints at Corinthians , leading the club to two Brazilian league titles , in 2011 and 2015 , and the Copa Sudamericana in 2013 .  He will be tasked with transforming a struggling Brazil in the middle of a lackluster qualifying campaign for the 2018 World Cup .  They are currently in sixth place in their regional group , which would be too low to qualify .  Brazil prides itself on being the only team to have played in every World Cup , and leads the all-time winners ' list with five titles .  Agence France-Presse is a global news agency delivering fast , in-depth coverage of the events shaping our world from wars and conflicts to politics , sports , entertainment and the latest breakthroughs in health , science and technology .