Senate welcomes Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/manila/local-news/2016/01/25/senate-welcomes-miss-universe-2015-pia-wurtzbach-453570

Senate welcomes Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach  Senate welcomes Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach  MANILA . Newly crowned Miss Universe Pia Alonzo Wurtzbach is presented the Senate Resolution from Sen. President Franklin Drilon congratulating her for her victory in the 2015 Miss Universe during a ceremony Monday , Jan. 25 , 2016 in Manila . ( AP )  MISS Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach arrived Monday at the Senate to receive the Citation of Excellence for winning the pageant .  Senate President Franklin Drilon , along with Senator Juan Edgardo Angara , presented to Wurtzbach the Senate Resolution III , congratulating and commending her on her victory in the 2015 Miss Universe pageant .  Senator Grace Poe also met Wurtzbach to congratulate her .  In the resolution filed , Wurtzbach was lauded for her " positive and strong determination to fulfill her dream of winning the 2015 Miss Universe title . "  " For winning the Miss Universe crown , which was last worn by a Filipina 42 years ago , she has brought great honor and glory to the country of this august chamber , " the resolution read .  " Her firm belief that being a Miss Universe is both an honor and responsibility to humanity , as well as an opportunity to show the universe that she is confidently beautiful with a heart , is a clear manifestation of her deep concern over the fate of her fellowmen , " it added .  The 26-year-old beauty queen from Cagayan de Oro , Misamis Oriental , bested 70 other contestants in the pageant .  In a press conference Sunday night , Wurtzbach defended her stance over the presence of the American military forces in the country , saying " ( US ) military presence is different from ( setting up permanent ) military bases . "  " Military presence sounds to me like an aid , military help , ( and ) security , " she said .  During the question and answer portion during the Miss Universe competition in December last year , Wurtzbach said that there is nothing wrong and she does not see any problem with the presence of the American forces territories in South China Sea .  She said Sunday that she is willing to sit down and talk with those people who are not in favor of her view . ( With John Carlo M. Cahinhinan/Sunnex )  DISCLAIMER : Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates . Sun.Star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  Forum rules : Do not use obscenity . Some words have been banned . Stick to the topic . Do not veer away from the discussion . Be coherent and respectful . Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS !