LG Chem to supply electric vehicle batteries to Chrysler
http://www.mb.com.ph/lg-chem-to-supply-electric-vehicle-batteries-to-chrysler/

LG Chem to supply electric vehicle batteries to Chrysler  February 22 , 2016  By Kim Jung-hwan , Maeil Business News Korea  LG Chem Ltd. , South Korea 's leading chemicals and battery maker , said on Monday that it has signed a contract with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V . to supply electric vehicle batteries from late this year . LG Chem already has similar arrangements with two major North American carmakers General Motors Corporation and Ford Motor Company .  Photo courtesy of Pulse/Maeil Business News Korea  According to LG Chem , it will provide 16-kilowatt-per-hour battery packs to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles for the plug-in hybrid electric vehicle ( PHEV ) version of its minivan Pacifica that is slated to be mass-produced later this year . The Korean company plans to produce and supply batteries at its facility in Holland , Michigan . The company said the supply will be in entire pack that includes battery cells and the battery management system ( BMS ) .  The contract is expected to allow LG Chem to raise hundreds of billions of won in in the future , allowing it to further expand its presence in the North American market . LG Chem was selected as the supplier of electric vehicle batteries for General Motors ' hybrid Volt in 2009 and Ford Motor 's electric sedan Focus in 2010 . It also was the power supplier for General Motors ' high-performance electric vehicle Bolt last year .  For the North American market , LG Chem churns out battery packs at its manufacturing facility in Holland . The company added a line late last year and is running four lines in full capacity to meet increasing orders . It newly hired 100 workers late last year to bump total employees to 330 .  LG Chem has been engaged in research and development in the U.S since establishing LG Chem Power Inc . ( LGCPI ) in 2000 . Since opening 2012 , the Holland factory has been in charge from designing to mass-production of battery packs .  Lee Woong-beom , head of LG Chem 's battery business , said that the recent contract with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles has allowed the company to secure paving the way for it to take the lead in the global electric vehicle battery market . LG Chem plans to seek more contracts worldwide to maintain lead in the field , Lee said .  Globally , LG Chem currently has three production facilities -- each in Ochang , North Chungcheong Province in South Korea , Holland , Michigan in the United States , and Nanjing , Jiangsu Province in China . The construction of the Chinese plant was completed in October last year , increasing LG Chem 's overall production capacity . So far , the company has secured orders to supply electric vehicle batteries from about 20 global automakers.