TransAsia acquires 2 power barges from Napocor
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/iloilo/local-news/2016/02/22/transasia-acquires-2-power-barges-napocor-458652

transasia acquires 2 power barges from napocor  transasia acquires 2 power barges from napocor  trans-asia oil and energy development corp . recently acquired p400-million worth of two power barges stationed in iloilo to expand its services in visayas .  danielle del rosario , trans-asia head of corporate affairs , said the acquisition of the power barges will augment the power needs in visayas , particularly in panay and guimaras islands .  del rosario said the two power barges , npc power barge 101 based at bo . obrero and power barge 102 formerly stationed in estancia , iloilo , are now stationed in iloilo city .  the barges , carrying 32 megawatts ( mw ) each , will have a combined 64 mw power to be attached to the panay grid as provided for in the agreement with the power sector asset and liability management corp ( psalm ) .  trans-asia reconditioned and repaired the power barges to make it more profitable , environment-friendly and assurance of enough supply of power to meet the growing power demands of provinces and cities of 27 turbines by harnessing wind energy in the municipality of san lorenzo , guimaras .  the project was completed last year to provide 54 megawatts of wind power and ensure electric power to the whole island of guimaras distributed by the guimaras electric cooperative .  excess power is connected to the national grid corp . for the use of other electric cooperatives in panay island . ( lcp )  disclaimer : sun.star website welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the sun.star management and its affiliates . sun.star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  forum rules : do not use obscenity . some words have been banned . stick to the topic . do not veer away from the discussion . be coherent and respectful . do not shout or use capital letters !