Boy killed, 41 injured in grenade blast in S. Kudarat during fiesta
http://www.mindanews.com/top-stories/2016/02/22/boy-killed-41-injured-in-grenade-blast-in-s-kudarat-during-fiesta/

esperanza , sultan kudarat ( mindanews / 22 feb ) -- a six-year-old boy was killed while 41 others were wounded when a grenade exploded in a local peryahan ( fair ) beside a carnival during a patronal fiesta celebration sunday evening .  col. lito sobejana , commanding officer of army 's 601st infantry brigade , said the incident took place around 8:15 p.m. at barangay poblacion where a carnival near the town hall was established .  he said two grenades were lobbed at a populated part of the fair . one exploded but the other one did not even though its pin was already removed . sobejana said the army 's explosives team has attended to the unexploded grenade .  six-year-old elton john antonio , who was reportedly hit in the head by a shrapnel while eating balut , was the sole fatality .  chief insp . brian bernardino esperanza , municipal police chief , said 41 people were hurt . fourteen of them are still recuperating in different hospitals . one , he said , is in critical condition .  after a witness identified them . a cartographic sketch of the third suspect , he said , was already released .  bernardino said they are looking at the possibility of a grudge between the suspects and the owner of the fair operator . another possibility , he said , is that it could be a " diversionary tactic " of the bangsamoro islamic freed fighters .  mayor helen latog has called for an emergency meeting with her security and disaster teams this morning .  regions  about mindanews  subscribe to us  about mindanews  mindanao news and information cooperative center ( mnicc ) is a cooperative composed of independent , professional journalists who believe and practice people empowerment through media . we also believe that mindanao is not all bad news and that our responsibility as journalists and information providers is to ensure a mixed balance of reports beyond the usual fare published in national newspapers or aired on radio and tv .  the redesigning of this website is with the assistance of australian aid .