Mourinho in 'makes hypocritical statement' shocker
http://dailycannon.com/2016/08/mourinho-in-makes-hypocritical-statement-shocker/

Manchester United 's new Portuguese manager Jose Mourinho poses with a football shirt on the pitch at Old Trafford stadium in Manchester , northern England , on July 5 , 2016 . Jose Mourinho officially started work as Manchester United manager at the club 's Carrington training base yesterday . The 53-year-old was appointed as United boss in May after the sacking of Dutchman Louis van Gaal. / AFP / OLI SCARFF ( Photo credit should read OLI SCARFF/AFP/Getty Images )  Mourinho in ' makes hypocritical statement ' shocker  Jose Mourinho addressed the press on Friday looking more like someone who had been down the pub all day than a football manager and he had some typically idiotic things to say .  The Manchester United boss hinted that the club 's newest signing will happen soon and anyone with half a brain cell knows this signing is Juventus ' Paul Progba . The deal is reported to be worth around ? 100m . Ridiculous money and an amount that numerous managers , not just Arsene Wenger and Jurgen Klopp , have criticised .  pesky things called ' facts ' get in the way .  " I only speak about us , " Jose said , desperately trying to push his lengthening nose back in .  " I heard already two of my colleagues from other clubs speaking about us . I do not like that . It is not ethical . "  For starters , not only is the former Chelsea manager ignoring the fact that numerous managers the world over think that paying that amount of money for anyone is foolish , he 's also being a huge hypocrite considering he previously slammed the Red Devils for the wages they pay Luke Shaw .  " If we pay to a 19-year-old boy what we were being asked for , to sign Luke Shaw , we are dead , " he said , back in 2014 .  " We would have killed our stability with financial fair play and killed the stability in our dressing room .  " Because when you pay that much to a 19-year-old kid -- a good player , fantastic player -- but when , we would have had players knocking on our door .  " They would have been saying , ' How is it possible I play 200 games for this club , won this and that , yet a 19-year-old comes here and gets more money than I get ? '  " It would 've killed immediately our balance and we could n't allow that . I do n't criticise another club for paying it . They can pay what they want . I do n't have any comment about it . But for my club we can say it would be very negative for us , especially when we can say Felipe is much less expensive . Sometimes you have to make decisions . "  I challenge anyone to argue that Jose Mourinho does not talk about other clubs and managers ... is n't that ALL he does ?  Matthew , Stephen and Mosope get together at the midnight hour to discuss North American friendly fire , youth policies in the EPL and all the signings ( clue : no new ones ) . While battling to , download , subscribe in iTunes ( or all other podcast apps ) , or get it early on ...