Simon Tormey
http://www.econotimes.com/contributors/simon-tormey

simon tormey  professor of political theory and head of the school of social and political sciences , university of sydney  simon tormey is head of the school of social and political sciences at the university of sydney . a political theorist , simon is the author of numerous books and articles including anti-capitalism -- recently revised with oneworld . his latest book , the end of representative politics , has just been published by polity .  prior to his appointment at sydney in 2009 he was professor and head of the school of politics and international relations and founding director of the centre for the study of social and global justice ( cssgj ) at the university of nottingham uk . he was educated at the university of wales , swansea receiving his doctorate in 1991 . he was a research scholar and lecturer at the university of leicester before joining nottingham in 1990 . in 2005 he was awarded a personal chair ( ' professorship ' ) in politics and critical theory .  simon appears regularly in the media commenting in particular abc news , bloomberg and the bbc .  what is the relevance of anarchism today ? should we see a reinvigoration of anarchist tropes and themes or movements such as occupy , the spanish indignados and most recently nuit debout in france as a sign that anarchism ...  advisory warning : econotimes provides references and links to selected blogs and other sources of economic and market information as an educational service to its clients and prospects and does not endorse the opinions or recommendations of the blogs or other sources of information . clients and prospects are advised to carefully consider the opinions and analysis offered in the blogs or other information sources in the context of the client or prospect 's individual analysis and decision making . none of the blogs or other sources of information is to be considered as constituting a track record . past performance is no guarantee of future results and econotimes specifically advises clients and prospects to carefully review all claims and representations made by advisors , bloggers , money managers and system vendors before investing any funds or opening an account with data , or other information contained within this website is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment or trading advice . econotimes expressly disclaims any liability for any lost principal or profits without limitation which may arise directly or indirectly from the use of or reliance on such information . as with all such advisory services , past results are never a guarantee of future results .