Seeing music icon Kenny Rogers hang up his boots a privilege
http://entertainment.inquirer.net/199364/seeing-music-icon-kenny-rogers-hang-up-his-boots-a-privilege

the singer , who had knee replacement surgery , joked about other senior artists . photo courtesy of mong pintolo for ovation productions  " i may look fragile , but should i fall , do n't bother helping me , " the american singer-songwriter kenny rogers jested from a stool on which he spent much of his one-night concert in manila last thursday . " i have this thing called life alert -- all i need to do is press a button . "  the pop-country crossover artist , who turns 78 this month , has had knee replacement surgery that rendered him practically immobile onstage .  he performed most of his songs sitting down , only standing up when he has seemingly mustered enough strength . and when he tried to move about , he did so with a limping shuffle .  advertisement  " i think they replaced the wrong knee , " quipped rogers , who poked fun at his predicament every once in a while , as if assuring the packed crowd at the smart araneta coliseum that they things he complained about his body were deemed " age-appropriate " by doctors , he said . so it was rather disheartening , he confessed , when he saw the rolling stones ' mick jagger -- " who must have been 101 or 102 " -- dancing like he was 15 at the 2013 glastonbury festival .  later on , he found out that willie nelson , who 's four years his senior , has gotten a black belt in a korean martial art . " the only way i could make sense of everything is to accept the fact that i did n't do enough drugs in the ' 60s ! " rogers said , prompting a hearty round of chuckles from the fans .  however , it was n't only his mobility -- or lack thereof -- that proved to be a struggle . his voice , especially early in the show , was barely audible .  he was usually winded ; the tone he produced , quite gravelly . and on the rare moments he attempted to sustain a note , his voice wavered , such as " it 's only a paper moon , " " daytime lovers " and " anyone who is n't me , " rogers let his night 's special guest , the delightfully bubbly country singer linda davis , steer the ship .  between songs , rogers relied on his gift of gab ; he kept the fans tuned in with funny anecdotes from his 60 years in the business .  talking about the scholars , a band he played guitar for during his teenage years , he said , " it 's funny because we were all straight-d students ! "  but in spite of his diminished physicality and singing abilities , there was one thing that remained unweathered : the magic of his music .  other crowd-pleasers were " lucille " -- the song that " changed " rogers ' life -- and " we 've got tonight , " a duet with sheena easton . at times , rogers passed the singing duties to the fans , and they were more than happy to take over .  while a lot of the contained tunes that easily evoked nostalgia -- " lady , " " we are the world , " " islands in the stream . "  in " heroes , " a song from a theater musical he penned , " the toy shoppe , " rogers summoned every ounce of what 's left of his once-sturdy vocals to deliver his most stable , tender and heartfelt performance .  an equally poignant moment was rogers ' delivery of " you are so beautiful , " which he dedicated to his twin sons with his fifth wife .  the show , mounted by ovation productions , was part of his preretirement world tour named after the song , " the gambler , " whose lyrics go , " you 've got to know when to hold ' em/ know when to fold ' em/ know when to walk away . "  and as far as farewells go , this concert was bittersweet : the rogers the filipino crowd saw -- in his first and last outing here -- was far from the strapping , swaying and guitar-toting black-bearded man his devoted fans , seeing the music icon in the flesh before he hangs up his boots was a privilege .