Cubs, Braves stay ahead
http://thestandard.com.ph/sports/213401/cubs-braves-stay-ahead.html

cubs , braves stay ahead  the defending champion san beda red cubs , the arellano university braves and the mapua red robins pulled off expected triumphs to stay on track for final four slots on monday in the opening games of the second round of the 92nd national collegiate athletic association junior basketball tournament at the arena in san juan city .  second stringer luke sese got his turn to shine with 19 points as he led three other mainstays in steering the red cubs to a 111-55 whipping of the san sebastian staglets .  guilmer de la torre , aaron fermin and lars sunga took turns in scoring big baskets and powered the braves to a 90-64 quashing of the emilio aguinaldo college-ica brigadiers .  the red cubs and the braves pulled off their ninth triumph in 10 games , allowing them to stay in contention for the top 2 seats in the semis .  the red robins survived a close call with the jose rizal university heavy bombers , 81-79 , and they went on to claim their eighth win blasted the university of perpetual help junior altas , 95-80 . they were led by troy mallinlin topscoring for 24 points and combo guard unique naboa ekeing out 16 of his 23-point output in the first quarter .  meanwhile , san beda college lions shoot to stay on top , while st. benilde blazers gun for their first victory as the two collide today .  the lions missed sweeping the first round of elimination after absorbing a 73-79 defeat to the jose rizal bombers a week ago , but remained at no. 1 with an 8-1 slate .  the blazers , in contrast , lost all their first-round games to finish dead last , but will have a chance to make amends when they play the mendiola-based dribblers in their 12 noon showdown .  more from this category :  comment disclaimer : reader comments posted on this web site are not in any way endorsed by the standard . comments are views by thestandard.ph readers who exercise their right to free expression and they do not necessarily represent or reflect the position or viewpoint of thestandard.ph that are deemed offensive , indecent or inconsistent with the standard editorial standards , the standard may not be held liable for any false information posted by readers in this comments section .