Keeping the Lumad culture alive ...
http://www.rappler.com/life-and-style/travel/ph-travel/143675-lumad-culture-kadayawan-tribal-games

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  keeping the lumad culture alive through the kadayawan tribal games  davao city , philippines -- what makes kadayawan sa dabaw stand out from all other festivals in the country ?  unlike other festivals with religious underpinnings , kadayawan is not only a thanksgiving celebration for the bountiful harvest yielded from davao city 's soil but more of a showcase of the rich culture and traditions still practiced by its lumad population .  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  eleven lumad tribes are recognized by davao city -- the sama , the ata , the maguindanano , the klata-guiangan , the iranon , the tausug , the tagabawa , the maranao , the matigsalog , the tagabawa , and the kalagan . some of these tribes have been islamized . a hodgepodge of migrants , local settlers , and lumads , 's population .  " through the tribal games , we are able to strengthen the relationship of the different tribes residing in davao city and dili na magkatinahaay ( not to be reluctant to deal with each other ) , " said datu rudy mande of the maitgsalog tribe . he helped organize the event with the davao city sports development office . he sees the lumadnong dula as an avenue to introduce their traditions to the non-lumads and to form friendships with other lumads who are also participants .  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  photo by manman dejeto/rappler  the tribal games , participated in enthusiastically by each lumad tribe , has the potential of being one of the highlights of the kadayawan celebration . for this year , the tribal games were quite muted as these were held on a regular working day at the people 's park . hopefully in the coming years , the tribal games will be held on non-lumads alike may be able to enjoy and appreciate the very rich and vibrant lumad culture found in davao city . -- rappler.com  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .