GMA executive, Stephen Amell comment on 'Alyas Robin Hood'
http://www.rappler.com/entertainment/news/144906-gma-executive-stephen-amell-comment-alyas-robin-hood

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  in a statement posted on gmanetwork.com , redgie magno , vice president for drama of gma entertainment clarified that the story of alyas robin hood is very different from arrow.arrow is based on the dc comics character green arrow and is described as a " modern-day robin hood . "  ( alyas robin hood 's plot is very different from arrow . this is the story of a lower-middle class lawyer who will be accused of a crime he did not commit . in his quest for truth , he will also be able to help those in need . )  in cw 's arrow , oliver queen ( stephen amell ) returns to the city after spending 5 years stranded on a desert island . he takes on the role of a hooded vigilante upon his return .  use a bow and arrow on the desert island and later used his skills to free the island 's tribes from being exploited by a conglomerate .  magno also pointed out that the story of robin hood has many different versions around the world .  " robin hood has had different reincarnations or versions in different countries . in russia , there 's the short novel on alexander pushkin whose robin hood character went by the name black eagle . in brazil , there 's the real life limpaio , a true-life robin hood whose life is now a biography . in japan , a kabuki adaptation of robin hood was successfully mounted with the character of nezumikozo as the name of the legendary hero . this is to name only a few . what we are now seeing here is a modern version of robin hood , an adaptation of a universal figure made inspirational and relevant to the filipino audience . "  earlier , gma head writer suzette doctolero also reacted to the comparisons between arrow and alyas robin hood , arguing that both were inspired  these statements , after social media users and arrow star stephen amell reacted to the trailer . a website also released a fan-made poster of alyas robin hood , which many took to be an official release from gma .  stephen amell 's comment  amell , who plays the main character oliver queen on arrow , shared the alyas robin hood trailer on social media , along with a blushing shocked face .  in a facebook q&amp;a session held on thursday , september 1 , a fan asked amell what he tought of the gma show .  amell replied : " i mean ... i have no idea what it is and frankly , i do n't care -- at all -- either way . but boy oh boy does it look familiar . "  fans replied to amell 's comment , and while some called alyas a copy and urged cw to file a copyright infringement complaint , others pointed to doctolero and magno 's statements .  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome to rappler , a social news for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .