Pangan: Passing the tax reform package
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/pampanga/opinion/2016/09/01/pangan-passing-tax-reform-package-495064

pangan : passing the tax reform package  pangan : passing the tax reform package  they say death , like taxes , are inevitable . they are sure to come and the impositions may be harsh and drastic , but they would come .  for both , there are justifications for their existence . taxes are the lifeblood of an economy . death , as we know it , comes in different forms or manner ; it may be swift , violent or protracted .  president duterte has at his disposal a p3.35 trillion budget for 2017 which would be funded by this tax reform package .  the four tax reform packages aimed at supporting programs for infrastructure and human capital but at the same time bring down the so-called oppressive tax burden on wage earners will be submitted by the president to congress . these reform packages include personal income tax , consumption tax , corporate income tax , property tax and capital income tax .  if passed into law , the first package , the personal income tax brackets , their pockets , but at the same time would result in revenue losses amounting to p159 billion .  to offset these losses , the department of finance has proposed to expand the value-added tax base by limiting exemptions to only raw food and other necessities like education and health .  the dof proposes to raise oil excise tax and impose a levy on sugary products and fatty foods .  there are other tax measures proposed to be adopted by the dof in order to countervail reduction in personal income tax intake . these measures include luxury tax on automobiles , yachts and jewelry , mining taxes , sin taxes on tobacco and alcohol , carbon tax and lottery and casino tax .  ***  congress in well-advised to scrutinize well the budget proposal of the duterte administration .  as in the past aquino administration , there are lump sum items in the budget which have been smartly labeled to cover up sinister motives of congressmen who have insatiable need for huge funds .  more money should be set aside for education and health and the continued and sustained since its beneficiaries are the most marginalized of the society .  latest issues of sun.star pampanga also available on your mobile phones , laptops , and tablets . subscribe to our digital editions at epaper.sunstar.com.ph and get a free seven-day trial .  disclaimer : sun.star website welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the sun.star management and its affiliates . sun.star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  forum rules : do not use obscenity . some words have been banned . stick to the topic . do not veer away from the discussion . be coherent and respectful . do not shout or use capital letters !