DDB: Philippines has 1.8 million ...
http://www.rappler.com/nation/146654-drug-use-survey-results-dangerous-drugs-board-philippines-2015

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  drug users . alleged drug addicts and pushers wait to undergo drug tests following their surrender to authorities at camp karingal police station in manila on june 22 , 2016 . photo by noel celis/afp  manila , philippines -- there are 1.8 million current drug users in the philippines or 1.8% of the total population of 100.98 million , results of the dangerous drugs board 's latest survey on the drug use situation in the philippines show .  according to the 2015 nationwide survey on the nature and extent of drug abuse in the philippines presented on monday , september 19 , the current drug use prevalence among filipinos aged 10 to 69 years old is at 2.3% , or an estimated 1.8 million users .  filipinos aged 10 to 69 years old comprise around 75% of the total refer to individuals who are currently using or have used illegal drugs more than once from january 1 , 2015 , until february 5 , 2016 .  commissioned by ddb , the survey on national drug abuse situation was conducted by resources , environment and economics center for studies incorporated ( reecs ) from december 5 , 2015 , to february 5 , 2016 , among 5,000 respondents across the philippines . it had a ? 0.9 margin error .  ' lifetime ' drug users  the 2015 survey results show that the lifetime drug use prevalence is around 6.1% of the same sample population .  this means that 4.8 million filipinos have used illegal drugs at least once in their lives -- less than the estimated 7.1 million in 2008 .  according to ddb chairperson benjamin reyes , the government 's anti-illegal drug campaign should also focus on prevention to " curb the problem . "  " as much as possible , we are trying to prevent the 4.8 million to not try using illegal drugs again , " he said . " ang key kasi mataas ang retention rate . " ( our key message is to not use and do not try illegal drugs because retention rate is high . )  retention rate refers to the percentage of drug users that will continually use a specific illegal drug .  the 2015 drug situation survey results show that drug retention rate is currently at 28% for shabu and 24.7% for marijuana .  no more drug use after duterte 's term ?  as president rodrigo duterte 's war on drugs continues , ddb and other government agencies will use the findings of the latest survey on the drug situation to curb the problem .  " the findings that that were presented have implications on policy and implementation of anti-illegal drugs campaign , " reyes explained . " we need to recalibrate our programs based on the findings . "  reyes said that different government agencies , such as the department of health ( doh ) and the department of the interior and local government ( dilg ) , will soon implement community-based treatment and rehabilitation for drug users to complement ) .  " we have a balanced approach against illegal drugs , " he said . " unfortunately , what is highlighted is law enforcement , but we need to show people that we have a treatment and rehabilitation approach . "  the implementation of anti-illegal drugs programs should also be handled by barangay ( village ) leaders .  ( those in the barangay level should actively implement our anti-illegal drug campaign because they themselves know the extent of the problem in their area . if they properly implement the programs , the drug problem in the philippines will decrease . )  as of monday , september 19 , data from the pnp shows that 17,759 suspected drug personalities have been arrested under oplan double barrel .  the total number of persons killed in the duterte administration 's war on drugs , as of september 19 , is at over 3,000 , with 1,152 drug personalities killed in police operations , and 2,035 in extrajudicial or vigilante killings .  reyes has no doubt that the government is doing its best to address the drug problem the end of the duterte administration , illegal drugs will become a non-issue , " he said . -- rappler.com  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .