BILIBID DRUG DEALING | House minority bloc wants De Lima held ...
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/133738/bilibid-drug-dealing--house-minority-bloc-wants-de-lima-held-liable

BILIBID DRUG DEALING House minority bloc wants De Lima held liable  MANILA , Philippines - Senator Leila de Lima should be held liable for coddling and protecting drug traffickers , and for bribery and graft in connection with her command responsibility for the flourishing of the illegal drug trade inside New Bilibid Prison ( NBP ) during her watch as secretary of justice , which the House of Representatives recently investigated , the minority bloc said .  The group submitted a report to the House to express a contrary opinion to an earlier report of the justice committee , which effectively spared De Lima from criminal prosecution .  The justice panel had said it was leaving up to the " sound discretion of the Department of Justice and/or Ombudsman the determination of whether appropriate charges should be filed against her . "  The report of the minority bloc , led by Quezon Representative Danilo Suarez , said a congressional recommendation by Congress is only consistent with the principles of separation of powers , and check and balance in government .  " Unfortunately 14 , missed the opportunity to discharge the congressional sense of public accountability in the case of a public official embroiled in the drug trafficking scandal at the National Penitentiary -- Sen. Leila De Lima -- when it failed to recommend prosecution for her grave misdeeds in the discharge of her functions as Secretary of Justice , " it said .  In a news conference , Suarez said the testimonies of the witnesses , mostly high profile inmates at Bilibid , were enough evidence to prove De Lima 's culpability .  " What evidence are we still talking about ? Everything has been said there , " Suarez said .  Kabayan partylist Rep. Harry Roque , a member of the minority , pointed out that the past inquiries conducted by the Senate blue ribbon committee , such as on the issue of the fertilizer fund scam and NBN-ZTE deal , all came up with recommendations to prosecute officials .  " This is the first time I am seeing an investigation without recommendation ( to prosecute ) , " he said .  Ako Bicol partylist Rep. Rodel in the same news conference that the criminal liability should be determined by the courts , not Congress .  " There is a danger when Congress starts identifying the charges against officials because we are not all lawyers here , " Batocabe said .  In its report , the minority bloc said that , by making the recommendation , Congress expresses its " deep indignation over the hideous facts unearthed in the course of its inquiry in aid of legislation . "  " Congress can not close its eyes to the depth of depravity it had just uncovered at the NBP in the course of its legislative investigation , " it said .  " The affidavits by several witnesses presented before the committee on justice are , in the view of the minority , sufficient to justify the filing of criminal charges against her , " it added .  By refusing to recommend De Lima 's prosecution , the minority said that the justice panel had put weeks of hearings " to waste , without resolving a problem that clearly exists in society , whether or horrendous scandal at the national penitentiary . "  The minority argued said De Lima may be prosecuted for the following crimes or offenses :  Violation of Section 8 and Section 27 of Republic Act 9165 or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002 .  Violation of Section 7(d) of Republic Act 6713 or the Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees .  Violation of Section 8 of Republic Act 3019 or the Anti-Graft and Corrupt Practices Act .