Pinay runner conquers 7 continents
http://www.philstar.com/sports/2016/11/02/1639654/pinay-runner-conquers-7-continents

Pinay runner conquers 7 continents  MANILA , Philippines -- There 's an elite organization called the Official Seven Continents Marathon , Half-Marathon and Ultra Club , based in Minneapolis , that recognizes runners who 've capped routes in Africa , Asia , Antartica , Oceania , Europe , North America and South America . Only 73 finishers , including two Filipinos , are in the exclusive list .  Former Philippine national squash player Marimil Jordana Gerhardt , 56 , is in the process of gaining recognition from club founder Steve Hibbs as she has now run in Vancouver , Punta Arenas ( Chile ) , Antartica , Ayers Rock ( Australia ) , Beijing , Tromso ( Norway ) and Kilimanjaro ( Tanzania ) . She was introduced to running by her husband Clark nearly 30 years ago and averages two half-marathons a year . Her dream is to bring along a horde of running enthusiasts from all over the world to participate in a Philippine marathon at a destination with as much tourist drawing power as Angkor Wat in Cambodia or Bagan in Myanmar NSA president for gymnastics and niece Lily Jordana is with the Philippine swimming team , is in town for a visit from her home in Sun Valley , Idaho . She was born and raised in Manila , studied at Poveda and St. Scholastica 's College , worked two years with Rocha and Company then left for Madrid in 1983 to join a documentation outfit providing translation services . In 1986 , Gerhardt moved to San Francisco and was employed at Montgomery Securities where she met her husband .  " When I was with the Philippine squash team , my coach used to force me to run laps at the Polo Club , " she said . " I never liked to run . But when I lived in San Francisco , specifically Sausalito , there were beautiful trails that inspired me to run . I have n't stopped running since . Wherever my husband and I travel , we always bring our running shoes . You ca n't tie me down to a chair . I average about 30 miles a week . I 'm in the gym twice run with my coach Tiffany Larson , a former US champion , twice a week . I hike and bike with my husband and in the winter , we ski a lot . For a half-marathon , I average a finish time of two hours and eight minutes . I try to keep track of my time but it 's the joy of running that 's more important to me . "  In 2010 , Gerhardt ran her first international marathon in Vancouver . Now , she 's done 12 . " We live in a small community and I enjoy my time off to experience new adventures , " she said . " Sun Valley is one of four towns near each other with a population of only 15,000 . It was developed by Averell Harriman as a winter resort for Hollywood celebrities . Demi Moore , Bruce Willis , Arnold Schwarzenegger , Steve Wynn , Steve Miller , Pete Cetera ( of the band Chicago ) and Chad Stuart ( of the British singing duo Chad and Jeremy ) have houses there . The environment is cut out Miguel , 21 and Nico , 19 ) love it . Once in a while , I go off on my own to do my half-marathons . "  Gerhardt said she 'll never forget the experience of running in Chile and Antartica three years ago . " We were about 60 on a chartered flight , paying $10,000 each to do two continents on one trip , " she said . " Flights are weather dependent so after three cancellations , we got the clearance to leave Chile for Antartica at 2 a.m . We landed at 5 a.m. and started to run right out of the plane . I was like a Michelin man with layers of clothing , running on ice , snow and dirt . As the sun came out , there were like crystal sparkles in the air -- an amazing sight . "  Dean 's Corner ( Article MRec ) , pagematch : 1 , sectionmatch : 1  In Norway early this year , Gerhardt ran on the shortest day of the year . " We started at 3 p.m. and it was " she said . " It was a beautiful time to visit because we saw the Aurora Borealis in all its glory with solar flares and strong electric bursts from the sun . " She mentioned other highlights of her journeys , like running with 15,000 in Queenstown , New Zealand , giving away her shoes and sweaty tops to poor runners in Havana and traversing the Great Wall of China when with the path narrowed to three feet , a runner went down on his knees to propose marriage to his girlfriend .  " It was stifling hot in Kilimanjaro but in Havana , we ran alongside these old cars that were belching smoke so we breathed in all those exhaust fumes , " she recalled . " What I enjoy about these trips is you meet extraordinary people , especially Filipinos . " Gerhardt said two Filipinos she met during her marathon journeys were JC Sta . Teresa and Eddie Vega who are in the Seven Continents finishers list . Sta . Teresa , 53 , is in the Guinness Book for running 21 50-kilometer ultramarathons in 21 Guinness Book for completing 101 marathons barefoot in a year .  Gerhardt said marathoners often dream of running in the 50 US states , seven continents and five oceans . What 's in her bucket list is to run in Iceland , the base camp of Mt . Everest and Bagan , Myanmar . A few years back , she finished first at the 5K Maynilad Fun Run in Balara . Gerhardt hopes to run in the country again soon and said the Philippines could be a priority destination for traveling marathoners with an attraction like running by the Rice Terraces or the Underground River in Palawan or Mt . Pinatubo or Mt . Mayon or Taal Volcano . " I hope marathoners from all over could visit our country and see how beautiful it is , " she said .