Philippines to have gross national happiness index
http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2016/11/02/1639681/philippines-have-gross-national-happiness-index

Philippines to have gross national happiness index  Several countries use the Gross National Happiness Index to measure the contentment of a nation 's population based on several socioeconomic pillars such as economy , environment and good governance . File photo  MANILA , Philippines -- The National Economic and Development Authority ( NEDA ) is preparing the creation of a local Gross National Happiness Index to measure the level of satisfaction in everyday living among Filipinos amid robust economic growth .  NEDA Deputy Director General Rosemarie Edillon said the baseline study for the special survey would be conducted next year to create the questionnaire and the metrics for the survey .  Several countries use the Gross National Happiness Index to measure the contentment of a nation 's population based on several socioeconomic pillars such as economy , environment and good governance .  Edillon said the socioeconomic domains of the Filipino-style happiness index would be anchored on the pillars of the Ambisyon Natin 2040 report that has been adopted as the country 's long-term vision on the improvement of the standard of living , .  The Ambisyon survey , initiated in 2015 and completed in February , revealed most Filipinos desire to attain within the next two decades a family-centric life " free from worry and hardship . "  This was further defined as having the following comforts : a car , a medium-sized home , the ability to send all their children to college , taking occasional trips around the country and having the time to relax with family and friends .  Headlines ( Article MRec ) , pagematch : 1 , sectionmatch : 1  Filipinos envision a Philippines that is predominantly middle-class , enjoys good governance and peace and order .  The happiness index in the making would be done every three years alongside the poverty statistics , said Edillon .  As a special survey , it would not be a leading economic indicator but would be a strong monitor of the attainment of the goals under the Ambisyon Natin survey .