Guji rediscovers love for music
http://www.philstar.com/entertainment/2016/11/02/1639433/guji-rediscovers-love-music

guji rediscovers love for music  manila , philippines -- looks like a happy married life is giving that cool aura to singer-actor guji lorenzana as displayed in his recent performance for a 4-in-1 concert held at the music hall in ortigas .  titled rediscover , the special gig allowed the teleserye actor to express his feelings for his wife and sound extra caring for the crowd . it was a rainy saturday night ( oct. 15 ) and the threat of a big typhoon was right in everyone 's radar .  he said , " i recall that instead of reciting my vow to my wife , i sang it to her . it 's good to be in love and feel the love of family . there 's a typhoon coming and i hope everybody get back home safe . "  after singing thinking out loud , guji performed a couple of ' 90s brit rock songs popularized by oasis . he was in a way showing the crowd his band roots .  in a chat with the star , he they suddenly think of me as primarily an actor . maybe i came out fine as a balladeer but my actual root is rock and i used to be a band frontman . "  after headlining the two-night rediscover , guji is gearing up to prove more of his worth as he comes out with an " international album , " a big phrase he uses to give a hint of what 's store in the future .  entertainment ( article mrec ) , pagematch : 1 , sectionmatch : 1  guji 's starring roles in soaps , movies and plays may have overshadowed his musical career . but looking deep into his background , the guy paid his dues and delivered the goods as a musician . in fact , he won a spot on apl.de.ap 's team during the first season of the voice of the philippines .  newlywed , the man is pushing forth as a singer with a sense of extra maturity .  while guji is apparently the most popular among the four , rediscover boasted four talented singers each with considerable jane joseph , marq dollentes and steven ofori , all singer-songwriters who , in one way or another , have rediscovered their passion for performing and love for music , fit well on stage with guji . on top of that , they all looked fabulous .  labeled as an inspirational balladeer , jane , a voluptuous mother and businesswoman who sang her composition himig ng buhay noted , " i know who i am and i want to share the music that i have . music is the language of the world and it 's ageless . it 's never too late to do it . "  confident in her intact figure , she came out with her first album last year titled more than enough . the album 's content can be accessed through popular online music scores itunes and spotify . she 's following it up with a sophomore release to display her versatility as a songwriter .  when told she may pass up as an r&amp;b artist , she quipped , " i do n't want to be uptight . i am proud to want to be boxed . "  for marq who did his cool rendition of ellie goulding 's love me like you do , the two-night concert 's real weight depend on their individual strengths . the number featuring all four of them hyped up the crowd every bit .  he shared , " rediscovering for me is putting out your gifts na nakatago . this is surely a milestone for us , expressing ourselves in this moment of our music journey . who knows where this road will lead us ? we have learned a lot from this experience . "  marq acts in the movie alimuom ng kahapon which is nominated for best picture in a barcelona film festival . myx channel finds him an artist worth watching for with four of his music videos , including gabay and bagong pilipino , earning strong rotation .  on the other hand , steven , now working on his debut album , is exposed to filipino audiences in cities like dubai and abu dhabi . his version of no woman no cry really brought the house down . that of up dharma down 's armi millare , served as an engaging front act for the four . like any indie act with real potential , she has the talent just waiting for the big push and break .