US military facility in Cagayan de Oro to bring prostitution, sex ...
http://interaksyon.com/article/125010/us-military-facility-in-cagayan-de-oro-to-bring-prostitution-sex-diseases-abandoned-kids-gabriela

cagayan de oro - having a united states military facility in cagayan de oro city will bring with it a host of problems , including increased incidence of prostitution , sexually transmitted diseases like hiv and aids , as well as abandoned children , the women 's group gabriela said .  with the supreme court upholding the constitutionality of the enhanced defense cooperation agreement ( edca ) between the united states and the philippines last january , a us military facility will soon be set up in the city 's old airport facility .  rhodora bulosan , gabriela spokesperson of northern mindanao region ( nmr ) , issued the warning tuesday at the 105th year commemoration of international women 's day .  " we should learn from our past . cagayan de oro city does not deserve a repeat from what happened in clark and subic bases . prostitution and abuses were rampant while the us base enjoyed tax holidays and impunity over cases of rights violations especially on women and children , " said bulosan .  " american servicemen abandoned around 60,000 illegitimate affairs without any consideration of the children 's welfare , " she added .  " more children would be born under such conditions , giving rise to the number of street children abandoned by their fathers , " the gabriela spokesperson said .  bulosan also expressed her concern over the rise of sexually transmitted diseases such as the hiv-aids .  " this city ranks number two in the country on cases of people with hiv or aids , " she said .  " in the first quarter of 2016 alone , there were two rape cases involving young women in the city . our group fears that the situation will aggravate should the american military facility starts to operate in lumbia , " she said .  edca allows the us to build structures ; station troops ; store and pre-position weapons , defense supplies and material ; assign civilian personnel and defense contractors ; and transit and station vehicles , vessels , and aircraft for a period of 10 years .  the armed forces of the philippines ( afp ) provided a short list list included nueva ecija , clark , palawan , cebu , and cagayan de oro . priority sites are : lumbia airfield in cagayan de oro , fort magsaysay in nueva ecija , antonio bautista airbase in palawan , benito ebuen airbase in cebu , and clark airbase in pampanga.