Observance of the Holy Week in Baguio City
http://northboundasia.com/2016/03/25/observance-holy-week-baguio-city/

Observance of the Holy Week in Baguio City  BAGUIO CITY -- Lent in Baguio City is practiced differently in such a way that the Holy Days are observed privately .  Looking back some 30 years ago , the summer season begins after the closing of regular school days followed by concerts and different activities and events catering to the tourists who travel to Baguio City to escape the heat in the lowland provinces and Metro Manila .  As lowland residents come to Baguio City , Baguio City residents travel to the beach resorts in nearby La Union or take advantage of the vacation period and visit relatives in the lowland provinces .  The activities extend through the Holy Week with more concerts and Baguio City residents look forward to watching showbiz personalities .  The holidays and the summer season end at the first drop of rain sometime in mid-May .  All these changed after the 1990 Killer quake in July when residents felt the need to practice their religion , religiously .  The people mellowed and through the leaders of during the observation of the Holy Week .  Some lowland families adopted the practice " pabasa " and began reciting the Holy Bible in public and not just at home .  Other Holy Week practices have been popularized by the church including the " Good Friday " processions aside from the regular activities like the reciting of the " Seven Last Words " , the " Passion of Christ " .  Most popular which never changed was the travel of Baguio City residents to the beaches , which is a Catholic tradition on " Sabado de Gloria " or the " Resurrection of Christ " .  Another activity is the " Easter Egg Hunting " adapted by the city residents from the Americans who established Baguio City in 1909 .  Baguio City becomes festive during this time of the year due to the practice of the different cultures converging in the City of Pines .  Natives of Baguio City has no common practice in the observance of the Holy Week . PNA/northboundasia.com