'Weeks' to identify Brussels blast victims
http://www.mb.com.ph/weeks-to-identify-brussels-blast-victims/

' weeks ' to identify brussels blast victims  people pay tribute to the victims of the brussels attacks on march 24 , 2016 on place de la bourse in brussels , two days after the suicide bombing attacks of terrorists on march 22 in zaventem airport and brussels subway maelbeek -- maalbeek that killed 31 and injured 300 people . / afp / patrik stollarz  working with teeth , fingerprints and dna , and sometimes relying on just tiny body parts , the forensic experts dealing with the victims of the brussels attacks warn it could take weeks to identify them .  in a large military hospital complex in a leafy district north of brussels , the experts are at work to establish the identities of corpses that have in many cases been left missing body parts by the blasts .  guarded by heavily armed men in combat gear , the reine astrid hospital is being used as belgium 's missing persons centre , or disaster victim identification ( dvi ) unit .  the painstaking nature of the work means families from the final confirmation that their loved ones were among the 31 people killed .  " yesterday we had around 30 people here looking for family , " ine van wymersch , who runs the centre , told afp . " none of the bodies has yet been formally identified , the process is ongoing . "  doctors , police , psychologists and red cross personnel are on hand to help people seeking news of missing relatives .  nearly three days on , none of the bodies brought from the airport and train disaster scenes to the morgue has yet been formally identified and the process could take many more weeks .  only once they have been identified will relatives be able to take the bodies away for funerals .  " the number of non-identified people is very , very exceptional , " federal police spokesman michael jonnois told afp .  " it was an ' open ' catastrophe , there was no list of who was in the train or at the airport terminal -- there was no passenger list like when there 's a duty damage '  jonnois said forensics experts collect wallets and jewellery and check details such as weight , height and hair colour with relatives .  " we want to have 100 percent certainty . we can not allow ourselves to have the slightest doubt . "  but with victims believed to come from up to 40 different countries , philippe boxho , head of the liege university forensics department , says interpol help may be needed and the process may be long .  " they 'll be identified by their teeth , their dna or their fingerprints -- in that order , " he said .  " teeth are quick , dna takes a while longer and finger-prints only work if they 're already on file -- though sometimes you can recover prints from their homes or workplaces . "  dental checks could be carried out with help from dentists , dna recovered by asking relatives to bring toothbrushes or other items , he said .  but this is more easily said than done when there is little or no means of identification and three months to get dna from a woman who lived in berlin but who we first had to find , " he said .  identification would likely be extremely difficult in the case of the brussels attacks , he said , due to the violence of the three blasts , in which the islamic state attackers used tatp high explosive packed with nails .  at the epicentre of an explosion , bodies " are completely destroyed , in tiny pieces , and at the periphery you find bodies that are more or less intact , missing body parts " .  " in this case there is probably some very heavy-duty damage , " boxho said .  he said scientific identification was key to avoiding problems of mistaken identity , as asking family to identify victims visually was both psychologically difficult and unreliable .  " some people are ready to recognise any corpse while others will refuse to , even if it 's the right one , " he said .