Usable Green Features benefit community and home owners
http://www.kagay-an.com/usable-green-features-benefit-community-home-owners/

usable green features benefit community and home owners  apr 3 , 2016  by pr  many residential developments these days like to tout their ecologically-friendly , or ' green features ' as helping combat climate change , complete with certificates from international certifying bodies to boot .  but filinvest one oasis cagayan de oro would rather focus on eco-friendly features that actually benefit home owners ( and not merely serve as marketing attractions for developers ) and even the community around them .  materials recovery facility of one oasis bali bldg 1  take its materials recovery facility ( mrf ) , for instance . republic act # 9003 ( ecological waste management act of 2000 ) defines mrf as a facility designed to efficiently sort and store recyclable materials ( paper , tins , glass , plastic and the like ) in an environmentally sound manner . the environment management bureau ( emb ) aims to set up one in every community in response to the mounting solid waste problem in the country . as a community by itself , one oasis do-able approach which is not merely environmentally friendly , but makes good business sense . it segregates waste materials for disposal and those which are re-usable for resale or recycling , encouraging home owners to participate in keeping their community clean and sanitary .  its mrf receives biodegradable waste for composting and mixed non-biodegradable wastes for final segregation , re-use and recycling , with each type of mixed waste collected from the source and transported to the mrf in separate containers .  this sorting strategy has proven to be effective in most communities that have established mrfs , as they have maintained a clean environment , as well as initiating business opportunities for buying and selling re-usable and recyclable materials . not only is the mounting problem of uncollected garbage addressed , other related issues such as the unpleasant odors which have plagued a number of subdivisions in the city , are also eliminated .  additional eco-friendly features of one oasis cagayan de oro include its sewage treatment plant ( stp ) and underground detention pond . the stp processes waste water and other effluents into safe , a drainage system which collects rain water in a detention pond serves as a flood-control measure when rainfall is heavy.when an area like the one oasis cdo community is paved , or covered with buildings , water runs off the property much faster than when it is in its natural state . the total amount of discharge is the same , but the discharge happens over a shorter amount of time as the detention pond temporarily detains the water and keeps the runoff to the desired rate . when the rain ends , water stored at the detention pond will be emptied shortly afterwards to another outlet leading to the river or sea , or stored underground for re-use and recycling . more importantly , impounded water can be recycled for non-potable use such as irrigating the community 's green areas .  the whole one oasis cagayan de oro complex which will eventually house some 1,300 units in five condominium buildings shall benefit from these features .  each condominium building in one oasis cdo will have seven to eight floors of residential units and a roof deck cum laundry located stairways , connecting all levels .  each 2 bedroom and 1 bedroom residential unit comes with a balcony and laundry cage for drying . parking slots for residents are available for sale on a first come , first served basis .  for more details , please visit filinvest office at the ground floor , bo 's caf ? bldg. , don a. velez st. , 9000 cagayan de oro city or contact 0917-305-8888 or check its official page at **34;31;toolong