Save lives . a business social responsibility
http://thestandard.com.ph/business/business-columns/green-light/202819/save-lives-a-business-social-responsibility.html

the standard  save lives ... a business social responsibility  motorcyclists are 26 times more likely to die in a traffic crash , compared to car passengers , according to the 2012 us national center for statistics and analysis .  the philippine department of public works and highways summary of accident 2011 report shows that the main cause of accident in the national capital region was human error . of the 8,360 accidents recorded that year , 561 were due to human error . other causes of accidents were vehicular defects , which represented 27 out of 599 and road defects , which accounted for six out of 161 .  about seven of 1,058 were due to alcohol and drug accidents . the philippine national police reported there were 4,229 motorcycle accidents of the 11,285 motor vehicle accidents in the first half of 2015 . this means that motorcycle accidents represented 37 percent of the total vehicle accidents during the period .  increasing motorcycle sales  despite these shocking numbers in motorcycle accidents , there have been consistent positive sales of motorcycles since southeast asian nations automotive federation . increase in yearly sales volume ranged from 5 percent to 8 percent , with 702,599 units sold in 2012 and 850,509 units sold in 2015 . although a total of 3.1 million motorcycle units were sold in the philippines during these years , this was less than indonesia 's 29.5 million unit sales and thailand 's 7.5 million units , the philippines ranked third in asean in terms of sales volume , ahead of malaysia ( 1.9 million units ) and singapore ( 104,277 units ) .  data from the philippine land and transportation office show that there was an average of 1.1 million new motorcycles and tricycles registered per year from 2011 to 2013 . the average motorcycle and tricycle-recorded renewals during these years were 3 million units , summing to about 4 million average registrations . additionally , on average , compared to other types of vehicles , motorcycles and tricycles registration is the highest at 28 percent , together with trailers also at 28 percent , then utility vehicles at 18 percent , sports utility vehicles at 14 percent , trucks  the philippine statistics authority data show that on average , privately owned motorcycles and tricycles accounted for 81 percent of the total number from 2007 to 2012 , while 19 percent were for hire , and only 1 percent was government-owned .  could it be possible that increasing sales is associated to employment ?  motorcycle employment  motorcycle messengers have been around since the early 1900s . their work has contributed to business expediency in booming and highly populated cities like metro manila . motorcycle messengers help businesses send and receive small deliveries on schedule .  in the philippines , the average salary of a motorcycle messenger ranges from p15,000 to p20,000 a month . some companies that hire messengers may require messenger to own their motorcycles .  timely pick-up and delivery of packages is the work of messengers . thus , the work of a motorcycle messenger requires agility and speed . rain or shine , motorcycle messengers brave the streets of metro manila . even if they are wearing their helmets , the streets they daringly maneuver remain risky .  unsafe driving behavior motorcycle messengers who do not follow traffic laws and ignore safety conducts . they race their bikes in-between vehicles as if they are in alleys , putting drivers off-guard because they carelessly pass other vehicles on the right or left rapidly and suddenly . for some reason , they are not mindful of the high probability of crushing their legs when they fearlessly squeeze into narrow spaces in-between vehicles speedily .  in other situations , motorcycle messengers position themselves in front of queued vehicles at a stop light . even before the light turns green , motorcycles messengers have already zoomed across the intersection . they risk their lives without thinking that in a split second , a crossing vehicle that has the right-of-way can smash into them . there are times when a motorcycle messengers would run three or more red traffic signals , always in urgency to get to their destination . they will have no wasted movement as they fluidly and without fear , go for the run through the congested traffic .  creating a safety culture  therefore , given that driving motorcycles leads to of accidents and potential harm for motorcyclists , businesses can create a culture of safety in their companies . according to adam gorny , a safety culture in an organization is important for occupational safety . he argued that if being bad and immoral incurs losses , any losses due to undesirable safety culture , would also equate to being bad and immoral . a socially responsible business would make sure to define principles and guidelines in its operations that encourages and establishes safety .  thus , only a solid dedication to safety measures will avoid dangerous behaviors . human resource management is key to establishing a safety culture in the company . by educating motorcyclists to become responsible drivers , businesses fulfill their social responsibility . by ensuring safety in our streets and workplaces , businesses gain profit as their messengers go about their duties without harming society and themselves .  ana liza " pinky " asis-castro teaches corporate social responsibility and corporate governance at the management and organization department of the ramon v. del rosario college of business of de la salle university . she is also real estate broker with over 25 years of practice . she can be reached at **29;112;toolong .  the views expressed above are the author 's and does not necessarily reflect the official position of the de la salle university , its administration and faculty .  more from this category :  comment disclaimer : reader comments posted on this web site are not in any way endorsed by the standard . comments are views by thestandard.ph readers who exercise their right to free expression and they do not necessarily represent or reflect the position or viewpoint of thestandard.ph . while reserving this publication 's right to delete comments that are deemed offensive , indecent or inconsistent with the standard editorial standards , the standard may not be held liable for any false information posted by readers in this comments section .