Civility in our politics
http://www.tempo.com.ph/2016/04/20/opinion/of-trees-and-forest/civility-in-our-politics/

Civility in our politics  It was searing hot in the entire country the past days . The Philippine Atmospheric , Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration ( PAGASA ) reported that the heat index reached almost 42 degrees Celsius in Metro Manila and a blistering 52 degrees in Cabanatuan City .  The sweltering heat is matched only by the increasingly fiery rhetoric that has characterized the Presidential campaign as we approach the May 2016 elections . The most recent surveys show that despite Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte pole-vaulting into the lead , the race for Malaca ? ang is essentially a neck-and-neck race .  The Duterte camp has every reason to celebrate . Duterte 's message seems to be resonating to a frustrated Filipino public who appreciate his straightforward manner .  It is important to remember , however , that this race has been rollercoaster from the beginning . We started out with Vice President Jejomar Binay firmly in control .  In fact , many thought that the 2016 elections would be a return bout between the Vice President and the person Then a flurry of corruption accusations , mainly hurled during the Senate hearings , pulled down Binay 's numbers . It was at this point that Senator Grace Poe , who topped the 2013 Senatorial elections , wrestled the lead .  After President Benigno Aquino III officially endorsed his Secretary of Interior and Local Government , Mar 's number went up , with at least one poll showing him in number two position .  Late last year , Binay surprised analysts when he reclaimed the lead in the last two surveys in December . And now , the tough-talking Duterte is currently the leader . Will he lead the race until May 9 ? That remains to be seen .  But recently , the rhetoric of the campaign has become nasty . The second Commission on Elections ( COMELEC ) -sponsored debate proved to be very entertaining because of the sniping and verbal tussles between the candidates .  In the past few days , we have seen media inundated with accusations and imputations of impropriety and even threats of jail for the other candidate . It 's .  I am , of course , very familiar with this brand of politics , having been a target of one in the 2010 polls . My readers will recall that false accusations were hurled against me by my opponents attacking my person and my family .  I was accused of being a supporter of former President Gloria Arroyo despite the fact that I was never an ally of GMA , and that as Senate President I supported investigations against GMA .  People questioned the life story of my family by alleging that we were never poor . My accusers offer as proof recent pictures of the place where we lived before proclaiming that it was a not an impoverished village .  Well , of course ! They took those pictures at a time when the area has already improved ! But during the time when we lived there , it was a poor neighborhood .  My readers may also remember the so-called " opulent mansion " in Salt Lake City , Utah which I allegedly owned . Simple research revealed that it was a hoax my opponents in politics .  Despite these false and vicious attacks against me , I never sanctioned any black propaganda activities against another candidate . Not even when it was becoming increasingly clear that we can not win the 2010 polls .  During my years in public service , I have always believed that political contests do not have to be a mudslinging fight . We may have opposing views but it does not mean we can not see eye to eye . We may disagree on certain issues but it does not mean we need to be disagreeable .  I think that all presidentiables for the 2016 elections are honorable men and women . For this reason , I hope that we can focus on the real debate in the remaining days before our people go to the polls .  I am confident that the candidates do not need to take personal shots at one another in order to win . I am hopeful that the next debate in Pangasinan would focus on providing answers to our nation 's problems rather that attacking one another . ensure that the public will witness a thoughtful conversation among our leaders rather than a confrontation .  The Oxford Dictionaries define civility as " politeness and courtesy in behavior and speech . " I hope the presidential hopefuls can rise above partisan politics and become role models in bringing back civility on our political discourse .  We need to remember that the electoral campaign season is not just about the candidates but it is also a venue to teach young Filipinos about our politics and government . Elections are vehicles for political socialization .  Is it difficult to be polite to each other ? My late mother , Nanay Curing , taught me this invaluable lesson : respect others . It never occurred to me that I needed to disrespect another person in order to advance my cause .  In business , politeness and decorum are also essential . Even in the middle of intense business competition , I believe that courtesy to others actually create conducive atmosphere for constructive dialog .  Let us discuss the problems of the nation and the answers being offered by to how to solve our problems but let us not question each other 's motives .