Sorsoganons mourn death of former Sorsogon City dad
http://news.pia.gov.ph/article/view/801461105220/sorsoganons-mourn-death-of-former-sorsogon-city-dad

sorsoganons mourn death of former sorsogon city dad  april 20 , 2016  sorsogon city , april 20 , 2016 ( pia ) -- families , friends and supporters expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to family of former chief executive of this city , leovic reyes dioneda , who passed away last night , april 19 , around 9:00 pm .  it can be recalled that dioneda was rushed to the intensive care unit ( icu ) early afternoon on monday , april 18 , after he was found unconscious in his residence in pangpang , sorsogon city .  atty . ron espinosa , spokesperson for the dioneda family , said he was repeatedly revived by his medical doctors since he was rushed to the hospital until signs of his recovery were shown early in the morning of tuesday as dioneda 's blood pressure stabilized , moved his hands and opened his eyes . the former city mayor , however , died on this same fateful day .  dioneda served sorsogon city as mayor for six years from 2007 to 2013 and was merged to sorsogon town and became sorsogon city . he was a close rival of incumbent city mayor sally a. lee for city mayor post .  dioneda is also a mayoralty candidate under pdp-laban this 2016 elections .  he was 60 years old at the time of his death .  details of his internment will be announced later . ( barecebido , pia-5/sorsogon )  other news  calbayog city , samar , april 20 - president benigno s. aquino iii on vowed that the voice of the filipinos will prevail in next month 's elections . " wala akong balak na papayagan kong mandaya dito . obligasyon kong manigurado na ' yung gusto ng taong bayan , ' yun ang umiral pagdating ng ika-siyam ng mayo , " president aquino said before local leaders and members of the community who gathered at the sports center here . in his speech , the president touted the projects of the administration in the province . president aquino said the government spent p435 million from 2011 to 2016 for farm-to-ma ... read more  san carlos city , negros on tuesday led the switch-on ceremony of the 59-megawatt ( mw ) san carlos sun , inc . ( sacasun ) solar power plant in barangay punao here.the p3.7-billion solar power plant , which sits on a 75-hectare property inside the san carlos ecozone , is a joint project of aboitizpower and sun edison philippines . it began delivering energy to the visayas grid last march 9 , days before the march 15 deadline set by the department of energy for solar power projects under the feed-in-tariff ( fit ) . " the solar plant we are inaugurati ... read more  manila , april 20 -- in celebration of earth day , the u.s. embassy manila will conduct a bamboo sapling planting activity at hinulugang taktak , antipolo on april 22 , 2016 ( friday ) , 7:00 am - 9:00 am . the event is in partnership with the local government unit of antipolo , rizal and sm cares . english access microscholarship program scholars , young southeast asian leaders initiative members , and u.s. embassy 's green team will plant one thousand ( 1,000 ) bamboo saplings . . the bamboo sapling planting activity is part of the national ... read more  manila , apr. 20 -- the department of budget and management ( dbm ) announced that funding for proposed projects under the fy 2017 bottom-up budgeting ( bub ) program will total to p35 billion , up by p10.3 billion from this year 's bub budget . " for 2017 , funding for bub programs specifically those that lgus ( local government units ) can implement , will be released directly to local governments , " dbm secretary florencio b. abad said . abad said the release of the funds will depend on the performance of the lgus . of the p35 billion proposed budget for bub , funds amounting to p19.7 billion -- or ... read more