Llanes: Changes have started
http://www.sunstar.com.ph/baguio/opinion/2016/06/30/llanes-changes-have-started-482547

Llanes : Changes have started  Llanes : Changes have started  THE country 's sixteenth chief executive Rodrigo Roa Duterte has exhibited his version of change in his installation as President of our republic by just being simple .  His simple light brown Philippine Barong made in Davao which proudly showed our countries flag is a testament to what he espoused as being a simple Filipino who truly loves his country .  And in accordance to his simplicity , he has urged our countrymen to also start the genuine and meaningful change from within . He said this is the fundamental point for the country to start the positive change which the country needs .  In his acceptance speech however , President Rody stressed to all of his cabinet members , department heads , and the government to listen to the people and to know how to supply their needs .  President Rody pointed out the problem of corruption in government , criminality , illegal drugs , the breakdown of law and order and the judicial system as the main causes for .  It will be his goal to instruct public servants to provide the Filipinos a better , safer and healthy society which he said , " All is not lost " .  He stressed his dismay with government offices in bending and changing the rules at the thick of the game . It is the reason why he has called on all departments of government to simplify rules and regulations regarding government contracts .  This he said " Will be a test for government on how it will truly serve the Filipinos " .  Although his journey as the sixteenth President will be rough , he have pledge to serve not one segment of the society , but to serve all the Filipinos .  And since he is now ready to start work for the nation , it is the duty of the Filipinos to truly show our love for country by showing concern to those who have less and who our helpless .  Published in the Sun.Star Baguio newspaper on July 01 , 2016 .  Latest issues of Sun.Star Baguio also available on to our digital editions at epaper.sunstar.com.ph and get a free seven-day trial .  DISCLAIMER : Sun.Star website welcomes friendly debate , but comments posted on this site do not necessary reflect the views of the Sun.Star management and its affiliates . Sun.Star reserves the right to delete , reproduce or modify comments posted here without notice . Posts that are inappropriate will automatically be deleted .  Forum rules : Do not use obscenity . Some words have been banned . Stick to the topic . Do not veer away from the discussion . Be coherent and respectful . Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS !