PM&amp;DC seeks report on bogus degrees of Shifa Hospital doctors
http://www.pakistantoday.com.pk/2015/07/01/city/islamabad/pmdc-seeks-report-on-bogus-degrees-of-shifa-hospital-doctors/

PM&amp;DC seeks report on bogus degrees of Shifa Hospital doctors  The Pakistan Medical and Dental Council ( PM&amp;DC ) has sought report from Shifa Hospital Islamabad regarding bogus degrees of its gastro department 's head , Dr. Nasir Khokhar in a complaint filed by a patient .  The complainer Nadeem Akhtar , who is a member of Economic Department of Dubai , has launched a complaint of criminal negligence in PM&amp;DC against Doctor Nasir Khokhar and CEO Shifa Hospital Dr. Manzor ul Haq Qazi for giving him wrong and unregistered spurious medicine , which caused him brain atrophy , loss of memory , severe anxiety , loss of libido , drop attacks , sudden loss of vision and fits .  The applicant stated that Dr. Nasir Khokhar is a fake degree holder and has been practicing illegally at Gastroenterology &amp; Hepatology department of Shifa Hospital since 1992 with the support of hospital administration . The said doctor is also teaching in Shifa Medical College and other colleges to make money .  The above doctor had registered with Pakistan Medical and Dental Council ( Diplomat of American Board ( DAB ) Internal Medicine while he has given a list of bogus degrees on his letter head including the Professor of Medicine , Gastrology and Hepatology , DAB Quality Medicine and Fellow American College of Gastrology etc .  According to the documents available with this scribe , any doctor could practice only under the limits of degrees registered with PM&amp;DC . The complainer claimed that Dr. Nasir is also allegedly involved in preparing non registered medicine and sailing them to his patients with the help of hospital administration to increase his income .  The former registrar PM&amp;DC Ahmed Nadeem Akbar deliberately hide the key facts against Dr. Nasir during an inquiry conducted by PM&amp;DC in line to support him. , he mentioned in a written complaint . The former registrar is now suspended from the post and facing about 20 corruption cases in NAB , FIA and other institutions .  This is to mention here that the US Human Rights International has also written to PM&amp;DC to interrogate the degrees of Dr. Nasir and to provide details of affected patient . Moreover two High Court against Dr. Nasir .  When contacted to Dr. Nasir Khokhar through telephone , he admitted that many cases are under progress against him in IHC and PM&amp;DC and previously he has received a warning from PM&amp;DC regarding the over dosage of medicine .  Rejecting the allegations of fake degrees , he said that the PM&amp;DC has admitted his degree of Gastroenterology and Hepatology .  He said that he is facing inquiries for five years but nothing proved against him , saying that the affected patient was levelling allegation on him for petty gains .