PR guru Carson highlights importance of marketing
http://www.pakistantoday.com.pk/2015/07/01/city/lahore/pr-guru-carson-highlights-importance-of-marketing/

PR guru Carson highlights importance of marketing  Mitch Carson , a multi-dimensional personality from California , having expertise in seminar promotion , public relation ( PR ) and marketing strategies , differentiated between the scope of PR in public and private sectors , saying that PR in public sector was chained while its scope was much widened in the private sector .  Pakistan Today got an opportunity to have an informal conversation with Carson , who is visiting Lahore these days .  During a meeting with this scribe , Carson said that he was an " instant celebrity maker " by virtue of his marketing and PR techniques . He said that he reads more than a hundred books annually , covering marketing , sales fiction and success stories of famous personalities . He terms this reading practice as his " muscles exercise to stay fresh " .  Talking about his experience of visiting Lahore in Ramzan , Carson said that it was one of the best experiences of his life watching people having free foods during Shar and Iftaar . " Nobody Carson who has previously visited Karachi and Peshawar as well and will leave for United States this week .  Carson also lauded the hospitality of the Pakistani people and rated it at number one in the world , saying they were very polite and helpful to the foreigners . He said Pakistan was a great and beautiful place for the foreigners .  " I must say the real Pakistan is not much known to the people in the United States , and it also needed to be marketed well in the world , " he said , adding that young Pakistanis should play an important role in marketing the positive aspects of the country through write-ups , documentaries , short film-making and creative video press releases .  Carson also said that in the modern world , without proper marketing strategy , no business could be made successful ; not even politics . He said even doctors and other professionals in the Western countries studied marketing or hired consultants to properly market their skills .  " Marketing strategies are lacking in Pakistan as I did n't see a of its customers . In my country , each and every restaurant takes the contact number of its visitors which is an excellent marketing strategy in the modern world , " said Carson .  He also visited Government College University on Monday and delivered a lecture there on modern marketing strategies . " I feel much honoured to come in this historical institution that produced a lot of notable personalities in every field of life , " he concluded speaking at the varsity .