Shaikh Ahmad Hassan School of Law inaugurated at LUMS : 'LUMS ...
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/punjab/13-Sep-2015/shaikh-ahmad-hassan-school-of-law-inaugurated-at-lums-lums-law-school-will-help-reform

Shaikh Ahmad Hassan School of Law inaugurated at LUMS : ' LUMS law school will help reform judicial system '  Punjab Governor Rafiq Rajwana on Saturday inaugurated the Shaikh Ahmad Hassan School of Law ( SAHSOL ) at Lahore University of Management Sciences ( LUMS ) .  The Shaikh Ahmad Hassan School of Law , established in 2013 , offers a five-year joint BA-LLB ( Honours ) undergraduate programme , accredited by the Pakistan Bar Council ( PBC ) .  The new school building constructed with the support of a few families , consists of auditoriums , discussion rooms , faculty offices , meeting rooms and a state-of-the-art moot court , which is a replica of the courtroom of the Lahore High Court ( LHC ) chief .  Addressing the ceremony , Dr Pervez Hassan said that the new building was built in just 17 months . He said the students would work on much needed legal aspects of environment , terrorism , intellectual property rights , World Trade Organisation legal aspects and foreign investment . There will be inquiries and discussions to of three , two floors of the building are fully operational , while the third floor is set for center of Chinese legal studies and environment law studies in collaboration with Pace university of America . He thanked families of General Habiuallah Khan , Dawood group , Packages group , Sheikh Ahmed Irshad , Hassan Irfan and others for their support .  Pro-Chancellor Syed Babar Ali said that the vision to establish law schools was to produce future Quaids , Iqbals and Gandhis of the South Asia . While quoting a 1946 meeting of the Muslim League Council chaired by Muhammd Ali Jinnah in Bombay where he ( Babar Ali ) was present , he said that school would serve for legal reforms in the country .  Justice Mansoor Ali Shah said the law school would provide solutions to the legal issues of the country while working in close collaboration with judiciary . He said reform must come from schools " and for that clinical interface with the judiciary is required " . He said when in 1994 Dr Hassan established the Department of Law and policy , and laughed , asking how business law would be successful . He said after 21 years everyone accepts this as a reality . He said , " This school will partner with the judiciary . There will be formal internship , the students would go to the field at district level and it would help reform the judicial system . "  LUMS Rector Abdul Razak Dawood said Dr Hassan had touched the hearts of people and it was a great privilege to name the law school after him . Members of the higher judiciary , lawyers , bureaucrats , army officials and attended the ceremony  Shaikh Ahmad Hassan School of Law Chair Dr Ali Qazilbash said , " The field of law can bring a significant change in the Pakistani society . The minds of the young generation are programmed in such a way so as to not be biased or prejudiced . " The SAHSOL will impact the entire social , political and economic fabric of Pakistan , by engaging new generations of Pakistanis with law and policymaking . The school will continue building upon the many accomplishments of sciences , and in the natural and applied sciences , he added .