Malays march in support of Malaysian government
http://tribune.com.pk/story/957700/malays-march-in-support-of-malaysian-government/

groups gather around putra world trade centre during the red shirt rally today , where it will start from four points and ends at padang merbok . photo courtesy : the malaysian insider  kuala lumpur : thousands of ruling-party supporters marched through malaysia 's capital on wednesday to support the embattled government and assert the political dominance of the malay majority , in a demonstration whose racial overtones have sparked concern .  the demonstration was organised by figures in the ruling united malays national organisation ( umno ) in response to massive street rallies last month calling for prime minister najib razak 's resignation over a financial scandal .  the vast majority of those marching in kuala lumpur wednesday were young ethnic malay men wearing umno red , with some carrying banners and shouting slogans such as " long live the malays . "  " i came to defend malay rights , " said aswad shaari , 25 , who was among large numbers of malays bussed in by organisers from the countryside .  umno has controlled multi-ethnic malaysia for 58 years malaysia also has sizeable ethnic chinese and indian minorities .  the party has increasingly resorted to racial rhetoric to shore up malay muslim support , raising ethnic tensions .  the demonstrators had planned to march through commercial and tourist districts dominated by ethnic chinese-run businesses . chinese make up about a quarter of malaysia 's population .  but authorities have said they would be diverted from those areas to avoid trouble .  hundreds of police were deployed throughout central kuala lumpur , and some chinese commercial areas were sealed off , leaving bemused tourists to wander among the heavy security and shuttered shops .  a rally was scheduled at a central park area later . organisers have vowed the demonstration would be peaceful .  but the rally has been criticised by both ruling-party and opposition figures as racially provocative in a country where deadly sectarian riots in 1969 are still regularly cited as a cautionary tale .  najib , who was already under fire over huge sums of money missing from a state firm he launched , has been deeply tarnished by the revelation in deposits into his personal bank accounts .  his government has called them " political donations " from middle eastern sources but has refused to give details .  najib subsequently sacked his attorney general and made other personnel moves critics say were intended to hamper criminal investigations .