Being grumpy 'key to longer life'
http://archive.indianexpress.com/news/being-grumpy-key-to-longer-life/762744/

Grumpy aged men now have a good reason to cheer up -- they 'll outlive optimists , says a study .  Researchers have found that being cantankerous is the key to reaching old age -- this is because happier characters are likely to take more risks through their lives including eating unhealthy foods , drinking and smoking .  The findings , part of a 90-year study , cast doubt on reports that loving marriages , active social lives , raising children or owning a pet help people to live longer , the ' Daily Express ' reported .  Researcher Leslie Martin said : " We came to a new understanding about happiness and health . One of the findings that astounded us was that participants who were the most cheerful and had the best sense of humour as children lived shorter lives , on average , than those who were less cheerful .  " The prudent and persistent individuals stayed healthiest and lived longest . "  The study , called the Longevity Project , also found owning a pet could improve general . Similarly , people being cared for as they got older stayed cheerful but , did n't live longer .  However , caring for others can help because it often makes carers more aware of general health risks and persuades them to lead healthier lives .  The researchers from California University have spent the last 20 years analysing the results of research that began in 1921 on 1,500 10-year-old children .  The children , all born 100 years ago , were asked about everything from owning pets to work , friends and families . In addition , their health data and daily lives were all followed up in the following years .  But while many of their attitudes when young could be linked to how long they eventually lived , several common theories were proved wrong .  Worrying less and staying cheerful were not likely to help them live longer and often had the opposite effect , because happy-go-lucky people took greater chances with their health , according to the researchers .  ALSO READ  TERMS OF USE : The views expressed in comments published . They do not represent the views or opinions of The Indian Express Group or its staff . Comments are automatically posted live ; however , indianexpress.com reserves the right to take it down at any time . We also reserve the right not to publish comments that are abusive , obscene , inflammatory , derogatory or defamatory.