Foreign funds traced in 2G scam, 31 firms under probe: ED to SC
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Foreign-funds-traced-in-2G-scam-31-firms-under-probe-ED-to-SC/articleshow/7711213.cms

new delhi : thirty-one firms have come under the scrutiny of the enforcement directorate which told the supreme court on tuesday that multicrore foreign transactions relating to the 2g spectrum scam have been traced to at least six countries .  the agency placed its latest status report of its investigation in the scam in a sealed envelop before a bench comprising justices g s singhvi and a k ganguly in which it has mentioned that it is seeking the help of foreign authorities in tracking the source of money .  senior advocate k k venugopal , appearing for ed , said that letters rogatory have been sent to singapore , cyprus , jersey and virgin islands in connection with the 2g spectrum scam . similar communications were being sent to two more countries .  he said that 31 companies have so far been summoned and statements of 26 companies have been recorded .  he said that some hawala operators were also involved in the scam and their premises were raided and they were questioned by the ed .  the court asked the scam to which the ed said there are four teams which are involved in cracking the case .  during the hour-long proceeding , the agency also sought the court 's intervention to restrain the media from questioning its credentials in the case by making " baseless " allegations against it .  the agency referred to media reports in which it was said that its chief a k mathur was trying to scuttle the probe on the direction of the finance ministry .  expressing satisfaction over the probe done by the ed , the bench such reports " deserve to be ignored " .  " the matter is serious . court would protect everyone . it is not proper to indulge in character assassination , " the court said while adjourning the case for wednesday for further arguments in the case .  the court was hearing a petition filed by an ngo centre for public interest litigation on whose plea cbi probe was ordered by the apex court which is also monitoring the investigation in the 2g spectrum allocation scam which allegedly caused a loss of rs bhushan , appearing for the ngo , said that the cbi and the ed should also probe into quid-pro-quo arrangement between the dmk and tatas as the land was alloted to the political party after the company got dual license during the tenure of a raja .  venugopal , however , opposed the contentions of bhushan and said that he should not make oral allegations and referred to the last hearing when he had spoken about alleged links of union minister sharad pawar with the 2g scam .  " all the media reported on what he(bhushan) said but when he filed his affidavit he did not substantiate his allegation . this should be stopped , " he said .  in the last hearing on march 1 , cbi had in its report named the ceos and promoters of ten companies as among 63 persons who have come under the scanner for their alleged involvement in the 2g spectrum allocation scam .  the court had expressed satisfaction about the progress in the probe into the case and asked the agency to file status report on march 15 . the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .