China to evacuate citizens from Japan quake areas
http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-55587720110315

China to evacuate citizens from Japan quake areas  BEIJING By Ben Blanchard and Sui-Lee Wee  A man looks around devastated area hit by earthquake and tsunami in Kesennuma , Miyagi Prefecture in northern Japan , March 15 , 2011 .  Reuters/Kim Kyung-Hoon  BEIJING China will evacuate citizens from areas worst affected by Japan 's earthquake and subsequent damage to nuclear reactors , but has detected no abnormal radiation levels at home , the government said on Tuesday .  China 's embassy in Japan said it was organising the evacuation .  " Our ministry will continue closely monitoring developments in the accident at the Fukushima Number One Plant , will strengthen monitoring for radiation , and will swiftly report information about this , " said the nuclear safety agency of China 's Ministry of Environmental Protection .  Radiation levels fell at Japan 's quake-stricken nuclear power plant on the northeast coast , the Japanese government said on Tuesday , after an earlier spike in radiation .  As of 4 p.m. ( 0800GMT ) on Tuesday , China 's nuclear safety in the statement on its website ( www.mep.gov.cn ) .  Winds were expected to carry any radiation from Japan out over the Pacific Ocean and away from China for at least the next three days , the China Meteorological Administration said in a separate statement on its website ( www.cma.gov.cn ) .  However , China will monitor imports at entry ports for any sign of radiation , the General Administration of Quality Supervision , Inspection and Quarantine said in a brief statement on its website ( www.aqsiq.gov.cn ) .  " Owing to the seriousness of and uncertainty surrounding the accident at the Fukushima nuclear plant , the administration has already asked local bureaus to strengthen their risk analysis of the entry of radioactive materials , and to ... monitor for nuclear and radioactive materials at entry ports , " the quality watchdog said . It gave no further details .  Japan 's nearest neighbour South Korea said radiation levels remained within a normal range on the peninsula , but added it was taking precautionary measures such as equipping the country 's main Incheon airport with monitors to said the weather forecast indicated westerly and north-westerly winds would blow toward Japan over the next couple of days .  Trending On Reuters  U.S.-led forces have killed 10 Islamic State leaders in air strikes , including individuals linked to the Paris attacks , a U.S. spokesman said , dealing a double blow to the militant group after Iraqi forces ousted it from the city of Ramadi . Read