Bangalore: Nursery seats for Rs. 4 lakh?
http://www.ndtv.com/bangalore-news/bangalore-nursery-seats-for-rs-4-lakh-453405

bangalore : nursery seats for rs 4 lakh ?  bangalore : it is that time of year when parents can be seen running from pillar to post , with creased brows , in the endeavour to secure a seat for their child at a good school .  however , a seat in a good school these days comes with a hefty price tag .  while a parent would likely have had to pay less than rs 5,000 to get their ward into a good school a decade ago , the ongoing rate is anywhere between a whopping rs 1 lakh to rs 5 lakh .  parents continue to bear the brunt as schools continue to ' fleece ' them of their hard earned money . one of them , requesting anonymity , alleged that she had paid to get her child admitted in a well-known school in the heart of the city .  she said , " agents have a commission arrangement with school authorities and they sold nursery class seats for rs 4 lakh this academic year . " when contacted .  the want for seats in good schools has created a market for agents , who work on commission basis for each seat sold .  mid-day contacted one such agent who agreed to sell this reporter a seat for nothing less than rs 5 lakh at a premium international school . explaining his business , he said , " we earn all year round as people drop out of school midway and our maximum income comes from nri families and families who 've just moved to the city . "  these agents usually target online forums where parents address their problems about school admissions and donations .  commenting on the matter , primary and secondary education minister , vishweshwara hegde kageri clarified , " there are rules in place and schools have to adhere to them . in case parents have complaints , they should address it through the right channel . "  even though one approaches through the right channel , it 's money that matters the most . a parent said that they are all too aware that the answer to the question of very decisive in securing a seat for their child .  " school interviews always include a simple question - how much donation can we pay , " said the parent . this was a point that most parents agreed to . many claim that an interview for a seat at almost every school , invariably ended if they quoted less that rs 50,000 as donation .  we first headed to a school on st marks road to investigate whether this was true . over the years , this school has been the centre point of the donation controversy , always skirting the topic . this reporter spoke to some hopeful parents waiting to attend the second round of the admission interview .  " if you can pay anything above rs 1 lakh , then your admission process would be smooth . they charge only rs 30,000 on paper , but ask for a huge sum under different categories , " said k r ramamurthy , a parent .  when contacted , the school authorities refuted the allegations .  some parents informed that the so-called categories include were part of the donation .  educationist m s sridhar explains , " the situation has worsened in the last few years . i strongly believe that if a school has been built on a government land , like bishop cottons boys school , then there is no need to collect donations . yet amounts ranging between rs 1 lakh and to rs 3 lakh are still being collected , which middle class families can not afford . "  when contacted , principal of bishop cottons boys school , john k zachariah denied all allegations and said , " we do n't charge any donation at all . we just ask for infrastructure development fees and that is completely legal . the isce board permits schools under their purview to demand any amount from the students . "  next , we headed to the sophia high school where a group of parents awaited the fate of their respective wards outside the school .  " they do n't ask for it openly , but subtly slip it in during the interview process . i had to pay rs . but i have to pay around rs 1.25 lakh to get my second child into kindergarten now , " claimed one parent requesting anonymity .