CaratLane launches exquisite Gold Rakhi for Rakshabandhan
http://www.indiainfoline.com/article/news-corporate/caratlane-launches-exquisite-gold-rakhi-for-rakshabandhan-113102202462_1.html

This thread , which pulsates with sisterly love and sublime sentiments , is rightly called the ' Rakhi ' .  The chaste bond of love between a brother and a sister is one of the deepest and noblest of human emotions . ' Raksha Bandhan ' or ' Rakhi ' is a special occasion to celebrate this emotional bonding by tying a holy thread around the wrist . This thread , which pulsates with sisterly love and sublime sentiments , is rightly called the ' Rakhi ' .  Since Rakhi 's around the corner , CaratLane , India 's largest online diamond &amp; jewellery portal launches the exquisite Gold Rakhi 's for the celebrated occasion of Rakshabandhan .  CaratLane is India 's first and largest online diamond jewellery portal which offers wide range of solitaire diamonds , solitaire based jewellery , readymade diamond jewellery , gold engraved jewellery &amp; now special Gold Rakhi 's to make the occasion of Rakshabandhan a memory for lifetime .  Beauty and tradition come together in the Lakshmi Flower , a unique Rakhi design . Embossed with the the best way to wish your beloved brother a lifetime of good fortune . The Rakhi 's come in colourful and bright Bandhani pouch with roli and chaawal for tika and coconut for good luck and prosperity .  CaratLane is well in tune with changing tastes and trends . It offers an incredible range which is affordable &amp; unique . These 22 kt and 24 kt yellow gold Rakhis are priced at Rs 749 onwards . So what are you guys waiting for , go online ( www.caratlane.com ) &amp; bind your brother with a golden bond of love .  Mutual Funds :  Insurance :  ATTENTION INVESTORS :  www.indiainfoline.com is part of the IIFL Group , a leading financial services player and a diversified NBFC . The site provides comprehensive and real time information on Indian corporates , sectors , financial markets and economy . On the site we feature industry and political leaders , entrepreneurs , and trend setters . The research , personal finance and market tutorial sections are widely followed by students , academia , corporates and investors among others .