Allotment Predictor For Engineering Aspirants
http://www.yentha.com/news/view/4/allotment-predictor-for-engineering-aspirants

www.enguide.in guides students to their required courses offered at different institutions mukesh venu  on aug 11 , 2011  after completing his +2 course , adhun wanted to join the computer science ( cs ) stream for his b.tech . but based on a mere assumption , he thought it was unlikely to get a seat for that particular stream in the college he wanted to . so adhun had do with another course that was offered , only to find out later , that he could very well have got a seat in cs , in the college of his choice . four years on , that memory is still fresh in adhun 's mind .  " i did n't want anyone else to go through the dilemma that i had to after my +2 . that made me develop this concept of allotment predictor , " says adhun anand . the new site ' www.enguide.in ' , was thus conceived and created by adhun anand , and kiran lal , his classmate at college . it guides students to their required courses , of adhun 's brother arjun , a software professional .  " at present , the site offers course details , college details , and of course the allotment predictor , " explains adhun . " regarding the colleges , contact details including phone numbers , email , website the courses offered in that particular college and the university to which it is affiliated can be obtained through ' enguide ' . a short summary about the nature of a particular course , the topics covered , the job opportunities that could be had by learning that course , etc. , are also given . "  but what makes ' enguide ' unique is the allotment predictor . " to gain access to this site the student has to complete and submit the registration form . his personal details , including the rank he has scored in the entrance tests are required to be filled . based on the student 's rank , and the last rank to which the seat aspired by the student was allotted to in the previous year is compared , and the probability of obtaining quite accurately with all colleges , except for the top two or three , because the fluctuation rate there is comparatively high . "  adhun with ' enguide ' team  it is for the first time that an aspiring student gets to know about the chances he or she has in obtaining the seat they desire in a particular college . no wonder the site is a big hit among students with over 20,000 page views in less than a month since the site was launched . it also has about 1,000+ registered members from trivandrum alone .  " currently our focus is on trivandrum city alone . but we will soon be expanding to other cities and towns as well , " adds adhun . and this young man has no plans to slow down in any manner . " this is just the beginning . we plan to include more information that students would find useful . "  till now the team has shied away from earning revenues from the site . but offers are coming knocking at their doors . " various colleges and , " reveals adhun " but we are planning on having a different sort of advertising in our site ; we are trying to do it region-centric . "  the response to www.enguide.in has been overwhelming . with the kind of vision that these young minds have , in all probability , this website could be the most uttered name on the lips of every aspiring b.tech student in the state soon .