Myra Digital India Launches stylish DVR with 19"LCD Monitor
http://www.indiaprwire.com/pressrelease/computer-electronics/2011081194561.htm

Myra Digital India a security solution company introduces 19inch LCD integrated with a Digital Video Recorder . The LCD is a high performance model in its own right , and with the addition of the DVR , the MDI-K9008 raises high definition viewing to new level .  This DVR security system features a sleek 19 " LCD Monitor with multiple viewing options , which allows you to view all the cameras at once , each camera individually or together using the unique , picture-in-picture display . H.264 compression allows recording of over a month of real-time , flawless footage . Designed with advanced motion detection settings , the cameras can record when motion is detected or based on a set schedule .  The MDI-K9008 19 " All-In-One LCD DVR Security System is easy to set up and incredibly intuitive to use . The model has VGA resolution upto 1280*1024 . In addition with Video and Alarm Input/output options , with a special feature of network recording . The model supports Internet Explorer , special client software , mobile support- **33;349;TOOLONG and supports 1 satta hard USB backup .  The product comes with nominal price of Rs 21500/- . One can buy the product from Myra Digital India Store .  Myra Digital India is a Technology intensive company having its expertise in high-end microelectronic systems , Semiconductor , I.C.Design , Surveillance systems and integrated systems . We are channel partner with the corporate who is providing products and solutions in the field of Electronic Security and surveillance systems all over the world since decades so that we can impart latest technology products in India . Myra Digital India is a professional importer company in the electronic surveillance industry . Myra is a leading company having full range of CCTV solution ( all type of Digital Dome Camera/ IR night vision Camera / highly effective array lamp camera/bullet IR camera with 18 /24 /36 /48 IR in 3.6 /6 /8 mm , 4 /8/16/ channel digital video recording CCTV system , on mobile phone and internet surveillance system , switcher , recorder , accessories , time attendance and access control system 24x7 days special long distance camera 's for army requirements .  If you have contact the company listed in the press release itself . Please do not call India PRwire , we will be unable to assist you with your inquiry .  33 Vogue recent press release(s)  For those with a sweet tooth , there are sinfully delicious chocolates from chocoswiss . This luxury chocolate brand has launched three brand new ranges of designer chocolates including jingle bells , jingle and santa .  Konnexions HR , leaders in recruitment consulting business and professional service providers in India join hands with DTS Inc , the world 's leading software development &amp; manpower consulting company based out of USA to launch DTS - Konnexions . The new alliance between the two companies aims at rendering quality recruitments to the Asian market in the distinguished industry ...  In an initiative to make students aware about Media Power ISB&amp;M School of Business &amp; Media has witnessed the country 's largest , frantic and most happening youth festival , Media Mind Prints ( MMP ) 2011 a ' congregation ' for the ' Media ' at Little Theater Group , New Delhi on November 26 . in the league of home solutions and consumer durables recently unveiled the EUROLEX category of products at the 31st IITF ' 2011 . The newly launched Eurolex category incorporates a veritable range of home appliances that includes Juicer Mixer grinders , Steam Irons , Oil Filled Radiators , Halogen Heaters , COSP oriented range of fans ...  Union Finance Minister Mr Pranab Mukherjee launched coffee table book " Icons Of Pune , " on November 7 , in front of the leading industrialists of Pune . Speaking on the occasion , Mukherjee described the city as a vibrant " economic hub " and hailed contribution of the city-based industrialists to the growth of the country .