Singapore International School's Confluence Commemorates the ...
http://businesswireindia.com/news/news-details/singapore-international-schools-confluence-commemorates-40th-anniversary-world-economic-forum/28660

singapore international school 's confluence commemorates the 40th anniversary of world economic forum  mumbai , maharashtra , india  the simulated economic forum commemorated the 40th anniversary of world economic forum which was among the highlights of the two day programme -confluence hosted and conducted by singapore international school , mumbai . confluence 2011 , a unique amalgamation of competitive and exhibition events , was based on the concept of knowledge challenge . the events took place on october 15 -- 16 , 2011 at the school auditorium . apart from the host school , ecole mondiale world school , cathedral vidya school , indus international school , pune , don bosco school , mumbai and st. michael school 's siliguri participated in confluence 2011 .  " confluence 2011 is the pride of sis and we are happy to have hosted such an event that would expand the knowledge of students , we are looking forward to continue this trend , we hope to receive the same kind of support we received this year , " says kaisar dopaishi , principal singapore international school  two quizzing sessions and inter-school debate .  the simulated economic forum had a number of concurrently held sessions and the topic of the discussions ranged from carbon credit to low cost housing , from attempting to map the economics of terror to privatization of water .  in quizzing the questions were never a priority , the paths taken to the questions were-the focus was about not just knowing the right answer but the process that lead to the answer . the classical format of quizzing was followed .  the third event was inter-school debates . the schools debated about the state of democracy , freedom of speech through an unusual format -- first in extempore and then the turn coat debate .  the highlight of the event was a unique school verses the college exhibition debate . the best debaters of singapore international school chose to be good hosts by not taking part in the competition but rather being a part of the exhibition debate in a hope to highlight the standards of good debating . the students need to be complimented for their grand gesture . confluence winner ) , aryan chhabria and shankhini were pitted against two seasoned college debaters - anshuman mitra of st. xavier 's college , kolkata and shashank shah from the jadhavpur university . both the teams debated about whether it is in the nature of the industry to give farmers a raw deal . this debate saw a lot of cross fire from the audience in terms of questions and interjections . this debate showcased a lot of good debating skills and highlighted the importance of the power of spoken word and the art of gentle persuasion and convection .  overall the event was a resounding success and underscored the value of endeavoring to expand the knowledge of students . confluence was not just about inter-school competition but also had the workshop elements provided by pranab mukherjee who was the grandmaster of this event .  mr. pranab mukherjee , who has been closely associated with sis . he is the proverbial , walking encyclopedia -- an active humanist , journalist and an artist . mr. mukherjee is an independent media analyst and a performance consultant by profession , and the country . he divides his time between kolkata , imphal and the darjeeling hills . currently , a consultant with a two publication initiatives , he has earlier worked for a sports fortnightly , an english daily and a bengali daily . he is an acclaimed authority on third theatre , shakespeare-in- education and specialises in theatre-of-conflict . he is also considered a leading light in alternative theatre . having directed more than 50 productions of performance texts including three international collaborations , he has also performed in 14 full length solos which include an acclaimed series of plays on the subject of cultural and social alienation called the river series , living text series and foothills to hills , a series of plays with darjeeling as the living inspiration .  about singapore international school  singapore international school is the only co-educational institution in mumbai having term , weekly and day boarding facilities . one special feature of the school is the offer of a comprehensive programme consisting of four levels : levels -- k-6 follows the singaporean curriculum leading to grade 7-8 which is pre-igcse level this culminating to the two years international baccalaureate diploma programme . ( ibdp ) . the academic support includes enrichment , information literacy , special education needs and gifted student programmes , personal and career counseling .  the singapore international school holistic academic programme focuses on enhancing learning outcomes by considering student learning styles , having inbuilt activities , making learning fun and effective through various innovative methodologies designed to engage student in a meaningful and thoughtful way . with a very good teacher-student ratio of 1 : 10 , having two full time teachers in each class from kg to 6 while having experienced teachers with a proven track record in igcse and ib diploma , the student 's journey is geared towards making it a success story . the staff , handpicked from around the world , mainly residential , ensures their availability to students at all times .  sis is tucked away from the hustle and bustle of mumbai life and is also blessed with being in midst of nature . the state of art facilities , with horse riding and swimming being also the part of to develop experiential learning makes sis a complete school . the school also annually conducts inter school sports and games activities under the banner of conquest while the interschool co-curricular activities such as debates , mun , quiz , simulated economic forum are hosted under the " umbrella " term confluence . the small well- knit sis community is most conducive to build social skills and ensure the all round development of students .  sis is well positioned by establishing international links with other outstanding educational institutions globally . there is also ample opportunity to build an international network with students and schools in singapore and other countries , both within the classroom and through student exchange programmes , co-curricular activities and home-stay programmes specially arranged by the school .  30/01/2012 5:05pm  the three-day long sismun 2012 hosted by singapore international school ( sis ) was unique because apart from the model united nations ( mun ) experience it included a photo journalism contest for students and a panel ...  30/12/2015 5:35pm  grohe india , the no. 1 international sanitary fittings brand in the country and the third edition of the felicitation ceremony . the event will be ...