Police falsely implicate Muslims for bomb blasts: Justice Katju
http://twocircles.net/2011oct19/police_falsely_implicate_muslims_bomb_blasts_justice_katju.html

Secondary menu  Police falsely implicate Muslims for bomb blasts : Justice Katju  New Delhi : Justice Markandey Katju , who last month retired from Supreme Court and now has been appointed chairman of Press Council of India , has strongly condemned both media and police for painting the picture of Muslims as bomb throwers . Without mincing words he said Indian police is not trained for forensic investigations and so terror cases remain unresolved .  He criticized the media for jumping to the conclusions within a few hours of bomb blasts merely on the basis of e-mails or messages sent on mobiles. " ? the tendency is to brand all Muslims in the country as terrorists and bomb throwers , " Hindustan Times quoted him as saying on 10th Oct. 2011 .  Justice Markandey Katju Photo Courtesy : The Hindu  Justice Katju reiterated his view in an interview with NDTV on 17th Oct . " The point is that they can not catch the real culprits , so whomever they think may have committed the crime they catch hold of them , to conduct scientific investigations is absent in India so it is done by suspicion . Some bomb blast takes place , they catch hold of the local Muslims and young people and implicate them , he added .  Justice Katju suggested that media could be put to be corrected either through the " democratic way by discussions , consultations and persuasion or by using harsh measures by way of imposing heavy fines on defaulters , stopping government advertisements to them and suspending their licences " .  Several terror blasts over the last two years have gone unsolved . They include bomb blasts in Bangalore , Varanasi , Pune , Mumbai and most recently New Delhi .  Please ask Actor Amir Khan to raise this topic of " indian muslims - suspicion and hatred created about them by fanatic hindus - public as well as security organs of govts . " Perhaps he can do a lot to create communal harmony and tolerance .  Poll  TCNPositive  Support TCN  Recent Comments  Comments that are found to be in violation of any one or more of abusive and offensive language . Personal attacks directed at the author and other commenters . Comments targeting a specific community , caste , nationality or religion . Regular offenders will be blacklisted and prevented from posting on this site .  Unless otherwise noted , you can republish our articles for free . You just have to credit TwoCircles.net and link it back to us but you ca n't edit our material or sell it separately . ( We 're licensed under Creative Commons , which provides the legal details . ) . For publishing TwoCircles.net photos please contact info@twocircles.net.