The online shopper
http://www.livemint.com/Leisure/3khwGSos1mz4NM93YGoeHI/The-online-shopper.html

the online shopper  a belt from zara is one of her latest buys . photo : aniruddha chowdhury/mint  updated : fri , dec 09 2011. 09 25 pm ist  a belt from zara is one of her latest buys . photo : aniruddha chowdhury/mint  since the launch of her brand rachana reddy accessories in 2010 , rachana reddy and her signature wooden clutch , with splashes of texture and colours , have become easily recognizable across bangalore . with a debut at the lakme fashion week , summer/resort 2011 in mumbai and her products , a mix of samples from her best-selling lines the lotus sutra and the global gypsy , being called for possible retail out of three paul smith stores , two in london and one in paris , it has been an exciting year for this young bangalore designer . we peeked into her closet to see what defines her personal style . edited excerpts from an interview :  what dominates your wardrobe ?  a bracelet she bought in the us . photo : aniruddha chowdhury/mint  dresses one look at my wardrobe and you 'd see loads of lime greens and reds , lots of bright colours , but i have now grown away from that . sadly , i have to wait for occasions to wear dresses and they do n't usually constitute daily wear . i enjoy wearing block-coloured shift dresses . they are versatile , look elegant and make a great canvas for me to experiment with accessorizing . i pick them in all kinds of cuts but currently i like the high-neck structured shift dresses . mango and asos.com have some great ones . if you look away from the dresses , you 'd find pants that i team with a variety of tops and shirts in my wardrobe . then there are shoes . i have n't really counted , but i 'd guess there are a hundred pairs .  what do you wear on a regular day ?  i am mostly in the workshop designing things , so i wear pants and a top . mostly cotton pants or some regular denims that are comfortable . when i get out my signature would be to wear something in a block colour and then dress it up with a loud accessory , like some big earrings or a loud neck piece . i tend to experiment with indian jewellery and western wear .  i hardly ever shop in bangalore . there are new malls coming up that are looking good , but in the past year i have become a compulsive , impulsive online shopper . i have shopped a bit on indian websites , their customer service can be a misery . i do n't really like fashionandyou.com because their delivery is unreliable , but am addicted to this uk website called asos.com . it 's a good collection and they have free shipping worldwide . i like pret-amoda.com in india , which is more focused on designer wear . but since i love high street brands , i am eagerly waiting for a good site that offers the best ones on one platform . i also get some dresses made by this tailor down the road . i like charles &amp; keith for bags . my d&amp;g shoes are those as a gift .  but do you find the right sizes online ?  since i lived in london for a year when i studied at the london college of fashion , i know my uk sizes . the fit of these dresses is often not perfect but then we are blessed with local tailors who will fix anything with a tuck here and there .  you job requires networking , so you must attend a lot of social events ? how do you dress for a night out ?  she pairs these earrings with western wear . photo : aniruddha chowdhury/mint  that 's where i end up wearing all the dresses . i keep them simple so i can accessorize . bangaloreans do n't usually experiment too much but they dress smart . if i am at a party where i am just standing around or dancing , i 'd wear a short dress . for a more business-like social event , i 'd wear something that is more comfortable , like a pair of pants with a tube top . in bangalore i am so i leave all my experimentation to when i am travelling to other cities such as mumbai or delhi .