Review: 'Ye Stupid Pyar' can't get any more stupid
http://www.dnaindia.com/entertainment/review-review-ye-stupid-pyar-can-t-get-any-more-stupid-1623487

it is clear in the first 10 minutes of the film that in terms of acting you 're not getting anything at all from anyone . so you settle down for a good laugh and whatever little else that the movie will throw your way . but ye stupid pyar is not kind to anyone , it is bad throughout and leaves you emotionally scarred .  now before we get into anything else let 's get the " story " out of the way ( it has to be done ) . abhishek ( jatin khurana ) back from his high profile mnc job in us for two weeks meets salsa instructor neha ( noopur patwardhan ) at a gym . it 's love at first sight for him . they soon get married and plan to move to america . but neha emotionally blackmails him into moving to bangkok instead . once they reach bangkok neha leaves abhishek for her boyfriend ( at this point you cross your fingers and wish " oh lord let this be it . let the movie end here " from his college best friend simran ( akansha shivhare ) to find the run-away bride .  the biggest question here is , why did she need to marry someone at all in order to get to bangkok ? if the plan was to run away all along then why not straight from home ?  bollywood has gone back to the dark ages if such films are still being made . as far as casting is concerned , jatin and noopur have no acting skills to speak of and the only person who shows even an ounce of potential is akansha . sahil vaid as multiplex ... well let 's just say the whole tradition of bringing in a character to just provide the audience with some comic relief went out of fashion some time ago , and for a reason .  the dialogues and the dialogue delivery , both , are laughable and can be best described as " cheesy " . every time jatin goes " oh mom " with love and emotion you want to hit yourself on the head with something heavy because even that couple gets " drunk " is worth a mention . their slurred speech and drunken talk is fake to the point of being sad . clearly neither of them has ever even touched alcohol .  the film also fails cinematographically . there are too many shots that are out of focus and grainy to be allowed . even the dubbing is inconsistent .  this film 's sole aim was to launch jatin and noopur as actors but this specific enterprise will hardly do much for their careers . the failure of ye stupid pyar can not be blamed on just the lead pair , which would be a wee bit unfair . it was a team effort .  final verdict , watch ye stupid pyar at your own risk , or do n't watch it at all .