Kerala film festival begins
http://www.thehindu.com/features/cinema/kerala-film-festival-begins/article2701725.ece

chief minister oommen chandy on friday inaugurated the 16th international film festival of kerala ( iffk ) at the nishagandhi open air auditorium , decked up to resemble a kathakali arangu . '  inaugurating the week-long event , mr. chandy said that apart from providing a global platform , the iffk would help malayalam cinema to imbibe the cinematic innovations experimented in films from across the world .  speaking at the function , ms. bachachan said that it was after a gap of 20 years that she was visiting thiruvananthapuram . ' ' i had come here in 1991 when the city hosted the children 's film festival . i have very fond memories of this place , ' ' she said .  ms. bachchan added that the presence of stalwarts such as adoor gopalakrishnan and p.k. nair emphasised the quality and legitimacy of the iffk . ' ' ultimately it is good cinema , good screening , and good projection that is most important for the success of a festival . i hope and i know that iffk has all of this , film festival was an occasion to renew ties and build new relationship . ' ' this festival is organised every year to showcase films that are otherwise not easily accessible to audiences here . i hope that this festival , as usual , offers an enriching experience for our audience , ' ' he said .  the festival catalogue and festival bulletin was released at the inaugural function and this was followed by a cultural programme , ' destiny 's dice , ' based on the epic mahabharata and directed by film-maker t.k. rajeev kumar .  this was followed by the screening of the inaugural film , ' under the hawthron tree , ' directed by chinese film-maker zhang yimou .  actor jayam ravi talks to the hindu 's sudhir srinivasan before his movie bhooloham hits the screens . riding on the success of his latest movie thani oruvan , he says hopes to take the director 's chair someday . he says he wants to bring ' zombie movie ' into kollywood and hopes to explore different genres in the future . video : k. pichumani