Private prisons 'are run better' than those in public sector
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/law-and-order/9884719/Private-prisons-are-run-better-than-those-in-public-sector.html

private prisons ' are run better ' than those in public sector  private firms are better at running prisons than the public sector and all jails should be subject to open competition , an independent think-tank said today .  better staff-prisoner relationships , boosted by the use of first names and mentoring schemes , help rid private jails of hostilitiesphoto : pa  2:45am gmt 21 feb 2013  the government would be wrong to limit the role of private companies within prisons to small contracts such as maintenance and catering , the right-leaning group reform said .  some 10 out of 12 privately managed prisons have lower reoffending rates among offenders serving 12 months or more than comparable public sector prisons , reform found .  meanwhile , the group also called for the end to national pay bargaining for prison officers with pay and conditions to be set locally by governors .  the coalition government denied there had been a ' ' u-turn ' ' on the use of prison competition , while campaigners for prison reform said it was almost tanner , who penned the report the case for private prisons , said : ' ' twenty years of private prisons have created an effective market which is ready to grow . evidence shows that a greater role for the private sector will advance the ' rehabilitation revolution ' which ministers want to deliver . ' '  private firms have been managing prisons since 1992 , but in november last year justice secretary chris grayling signalled a move away from wholesale privatisation as he decided four prisons , including g4s-run hmp wolds , should be run by the public sector .  two contracts to run five prisons -- acklington and castington , which have since formed northumberland prison , and three in south yorkshire -- will proceed to the next stage of the competition with an announcement expected next spring .  mr grayling said private firms will be brought in to all public prisons to run maintenance , resettlement and catering to save up to ? 450 million over six years .  policy groups , including reform , said the decision amounted to the end of competition although mr grayling insisted it did not rule out further prison-by-prison competitions in the future .  looking at ministry of justice data , reform said this decision was not supported by analysis of prison effectiveness .  some seven out of 10 privately managed prisons have lower reoffending rates among offenders serving fewer than 12 months , compared to comparable public sector prisons .  furthermore , reform said private prisons outperform their public counterparts in four of the performance measures used by the moj .  a total of 12 out of 12 private jails performed better than the public sector at ' ' resource management and operational effectiveness ' ' , while seven out of 12 were better at ' ' reducing re-offending ' ' .  however , seven out of 12 public prisons performed better than private jails at ' ' public protection ' ' .  in the report , mr tanner argues : ' ' private contractors outperform comparable public sector prisons on both cost and quality , delivering better value for money for the taxpayer .  ' ' in addition , the similar public sector prisons for both long and short-term prisoners , a key government objective . ' '  as a result , reform recommends that all prisons should be subject to competition including the private sector .  it also calls for local pay decision-making to be introduced in prisons , with governors taking on responsibility for deciding staffing arrangements , pay and conditions and performance-related pay .  this would spell the end of national pay bargaining for prison officers , a move that would spark fury among unions .  mr tanner said : ' ' market-facing pay and adaptable staffing arrangements have not only reduced cost considerably but also improved staff-prisoner relationships and internal cultures within prisons . ' '  justice minister jeremy wright said : ' ' reoffending rates across the entire prison estate are too high and we are pressing ahead with major reforms to tackle this unacceptable problem .  ' ' and let 's be clear -- there has been no u-turn on the use of prison competition .  ' ' the cost of running our prisons is too high and new approach for reducing costs and improving services aimed at reducing reoffending at a faster rate involving the private sector . ' '  mr wright added : ' ' this simplistic analysis does not tell the whole story -- a wide range of factors contribute to reoffending including previous criminal behaviour , drug and alcohol dependency and the support offenders receive on release from prison . this is why we are committed to introducing significant reforms that will bring down our stubbornly high reoffending rates . ' '  she said : ' ' it is almost impossible to compare the performance and reoffending rates of one establishment with another , partly because prisons hold different categories of offenders and also because prisoners often serve their sentences in a number of different jails . ' '