Red wine isn't just good for your heart - now experts say it may even ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2282268/Red-wine-isnt-just-good-heart--experts-say-prevent-HEARING-LOSS.html

It 's thought that the chemical resveratrol , found in red grapes and red wine , is the reason why .  Resveratrol , a chemical found in red grapes and red wine , may protect against hearing loss  This is the same compound that has been linked with other positive health benefits such as preventing cancer and heart disease .  In a study conducted at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit , healthy rats were less likely to suffer noise-induced hearing loss when given resveratrol before being exposed to loud noise for a long period of time .  RELATED ARTICLES  Share this article  Share  Study leader Dr Michael Seidman said : ' Our latest study focuses on resveratrol and its effect on the body 's response to injury - something that is believed to be the cause of many health problems including Alzheimer 's disease , cancer , ageing and hearing loss .  Resveratrol appeared to reduce the damage to hearing from loud noises  ' Resveratrol is a very powerful chemical that seems to protect against the body cognition brain function and hearing loss . '  Hearing loss affects half of people over the age of 60 , but many begin to suffer problems in their 40s or 50s .  It usually sets in with the death of tiny ' hair ' cells in the inner ear as a result of ageing .  The study found that resveratrol reduced noise-induced hearing loss in rats exposed to potentially deafening sounds .  Dr Seidman said : ' We 've shown that by giving animals resveratrol , we can reduce the amount of hearing and cognitive decline . '  The study is published in the journal Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery .  Last month , scientists from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem reported that washing down red meat with a glass of red can actually prevent the build-up of cholesterol in the body .  The researchers , from the found that after eating red or dark meat , compounds called malondialdehyde accumulate in the blood stream .  These can help to form the type of cholesterol that can raise the risk of heart disease . day could help prevent bowel cancer , Leicester University researchers said recently .