Video: 12-year-old writes to US Supreme Court justice urging strike ...
http://www.pinknews.co.uk/2013/03/18/video-12-year-old-writes-to-us-supreme-court-justice-urging-strike-down-of-proposition-8/

a 12-year-old in california has written a letter to a supreme court justice , urging him to strike down proposition 8 , the state-wide ban on equal marriage .  daniel martinez-leffew , who was adopted along with his sister , by his dads , wrote the letter to justice john roberts urging him to strike down prop 8 , but saying that he understands it is a " tough decision " .  the video , introduced by his father bryan , who says that daniel heard that justice roberts also has two adopted children and decided , of his own accord , to write a letter to him . he says daniel and his sister thought : " hey , his family is just like ours " .  he says : " we were adopted when i was five , and my sister was about 12 months old . when i was in foster care , i was told that i was considered ' unadoptable ' because of my goldenhar syndrome .  " that is a genetic disorder that affects the whole left emilio because some people wanted to adopt him but they were n't willing to adopt me because of my medical conditions . lucky for me , that 's when my two dads came along . "  " i recently found out that you , yourself adopted two kids , a boy and a girl , kind of like me and my sister . family means a lot of different things to f different people . but some people believe you have to have the same blood to be a family .  " you and i both know that family goes deeper than blood . i was lucky to be adopted by two guys i can both call dad . they give me and my sister so much love .  " my dads really encouraged me to excel in life . since i want to be a cook , when i grow up , they are letting me take cooking classes . my parents want me to improve , whether its school work , or my social life .  " i know you have a tough decision to is just as valuable and worthwhile as any other . it 's especially tough for you , because i know you do n't necessarily believe in gay marriage religiously , but lucky for us , you also do n't believe in taking away a right , even from people like us . "  " if prop 8 is allowed to stand , imagine the pain we would feel knowing that we are not considered equal to everyone else . it 's important that all families are protected and valued . "