Richard O'Brien: 'I'm 70% man'
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-21788238

Richard O'Brien : ' I 'm 70% man '  Rocky Horror Show writer Richard O'Brien thinks of himself as 70% male and 30% female . What exactly does that mean ?  Richard O'Brien , writer of hit musical The Rocky Horror Show , delighted in shaking up the conservative sexual attitudes of the 1970s .  His most famous creation , Dr Frank N Furter , brought the house down with his song Sweet Transvestite .  But the show 's creator was ashamed about his own long-held desire to be more feminine .  " I was six-and-a-half and I said to my big brother that I wanted to be the fairy princess when I grew up . The look of disdain on his face made me pull down the shutters . I knew that I should never ever say that out loud again . "  For 50 years , O'Brien repressed the feeling . But " you ca n't just put the lid on things and pretend that they do n't exist " , he says .  I believe myself probably So a decade ago , he started taking the female hormone oestrogen - and is happy with the results .  " It takes the edge off the masculine , testosterone-driven side of me and I like that very much . I think I 've become a nicer person in some ways , slightly softer . For the first time in my life , I 've started to put on a little bit of weight , which I like . "  He has also developed small breasts . But O'Brien is not intending to go further and have sex reassignment surgery .  " I do n't want to pretend to be something that I 'm not . Anton Rodgers , the actor , said ' you 're the third sex ' . And I thought that 's quite nice . I quite like that position .  " It 's my belief that we are on a continuum between male and female . There are people who are hardwired male and there are people who are hardwired female , but most of us are on that continuum and I female . "  O'Brien 's idea of a gender spectrum may sound far-fetched to many , but there is scientific research that backs up his position . Cambridge University psychology professor Melissa Hines says there are not two distinct sexes , male and female .  There are many dimensions of gender and an individual person can be in a different position in terms of how masculine or feminine they areProf Melissa Hines  " I think that the research in this field suggests just the opposite . That there is not a gender binary , that there 's a range of gender , and there are many dimensions of gender and an individual person can be in a different position in terms of how masculine or feminine they are on each of these dimensions . "  Professor Dinesh Bhugra , of the Institute of Psychiatry at King 's College London , offers a different view - suggesting that while people may feel not entirely male , or female , the reality is that they are born one or the other .  " The distinction has to be a social construct , sex is biological .  " My guess would be that social notions of gender dictate how we behave . "  So , how can one explain the feeling experienced by some transgendered people of having been born into the wrong body and wanting to switch sex ?  It has been observed that the brains of male-to-female transsexuals resemble female brains in one region central to sexual behaviour . But it is not clear that this is a cause of transgenderism , rather than an effect .  Find out more  Listen to the full report on Analysis on BBC Radio 4 on Monday 18 March , 20:30 GMT and Sunday , at 21:30 GMT .  Hines thinks the male hormone , testosterone , may have a part to play . She has noticed that girls who have been exposed to unusually high levels in the womb tend to prefer stereotypical " boys ' toys " like trucks . And they are more likely than other girls to grow up wanting to live as men .  The UK 's main gender identity referrals last year .  There they are assessed by psychiatrists who will help them adjust to their preferred gender role .  After two years of living as the opposite sex in the UK , you can apply for a gender recognition certificate , which allows you to change your birth certificate .  To qualify , there is no obligation to have changed your body in any way through hormones or surgery . That means you can officially be a woman with a man 's body , or vice versa .  Stephen Whittle , professor of equalities law at Manchester Metropolitan University , realised as a 10-year-old that he did n't feel right as a girl .  " It was school races day and there were girls ' races and boys ' races . It was my light on the road to Damascus - this sudden realisation that I was always going to be in the wrong race . "  Image caption Stephen Whittle campaigns for transgender rights  At 17 , he started the process of changing sex . Surgery has left him with what considers himself straightforwardly a man .  This is typical , says James Barrett , lead clinician at the Charing Cross National Gender Identity Clinic . Most of his patients identify as a man or a woman , rather than somewhere in between .  " People who are seeking drastic surgical or hormonal treatment because they wish to live in a socially ambiguous gender role ... are thought about really carefully . The concern is that one does n't want to do anything that 's irreversible and then have them in a position where they 're not happy . "  The problem is , says Dr Barrett , they have to fit in to a society that that thinks in terms of just two sexes .  " It may well be that biological findings report that , in fact , everybody 's on a spectrum . It 's just that the way society works , most people do n't think of themselves as on any kind of a spectrum at all .  " The same is probably true of sexual orientation . Most people do n't describe actually , practically speaking , it very much is . "  Some transgender people do not choose to change their bodies completely , however .  This can lead to complicated situations , such as people who choose to live as women - but who have male genitalia - being sent to jail for sexual offences . Should they be imprisoned alongside men or women ?  Image caption Official documents typically ask if the respondent is " male " or " female "  The law is clear that such a woman should go to a women 's prison , says lawyer and former MP , Lord Carlile . He was the first to raise the issue of transgenderism in Parliament in the 1990s .  " If somebody goes into a court and is accused and their original name was ' John Smith ' and they choose to call themselves ' Jane Smith ' they will be tried as ' Jane Smith ' . I do n't see why what a court recognises should not also be recognised by the prison service .  " Awkward though it as challenging and difficult . "  According to Whittle , the UK is gradually removing the requirements for people to declare whether they 're a man or a woman . It has already happened with laws as diverse as the Sexual Offences Act and the Road Traffic Act .  He thinks the UK will follow Australia and Spain in doing away with the need to tick a box on your passport stating if you are male or female .  Which box does Richard O'Brien tick ?  " I tick the M , " he says . " But I would quite like to have Other to tick . "  Listen to the full report on Analysis on BBC Radio 4 on Monday 18 March , 20:30 GMT and Sunday , at 21:30 GMT .