Why Happiness Should Be a Global Priority
http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/richard-layard/why-happiness-should-be-a-global-priority_b_2900256.html

why happiness should be a global priority  this wednesday sees the very first united nations international day of happiness , which is being celebrated around the world on 20 march . this follows a recent resolution adopted by all members of the un general assembly calling for happiness to be given a greater priority . so why are people now taking happiness so seriously at national and global levels ?  happiness means the quality of life as each person experiences it . this is a key outcome in itself and is an important measure of success for any country , regardless of the level of economic development . it tells us whether people are leading lives they find satisfying and fulfilling . so information on the causes of happiness helps policy-makers to choose policy goals that serve the real needs of their people .  but , in addition , happiness is a major determinant of the other goals that policy-makers care about . personal resilience predicts educational performance better than iq does ; and higher wellbeing improves work performance and workers ' earnings . at work , 40% of time off work and 40% of disability . their overall cost amounts to some 10% of gdp . greater happiness increases life expectancy ; by contrast depression reduces life expectancy as much as smoking does . so happiness is a major contributor to many of our most important social goals .  as a result of 30 years of research , we now know a lot about what affects happiness . the main influences are economic , personal/social and environmental . on the economic front , income is important in every country , and poverty is a major source of unhappiness . but it is not the only thing that matters . in most countries income explains less than 2% of the overall variance in happiness ( the other identifiable factors explain about 20% ) . across countries , income differences explain about 6% of the differences in average happiness , while social factors explain a great deal more . work is also vital for happiness and its importance goes well beyond the income which it provides . education is also important , largely as a  turning to personal/social determinants of happiness , the most important in developed countries is mental health . in these countries it accounts for 40% of all illness ( weighted by severity ) - more than heart disease , cancer , lung disease and diabetes all combined . it is also largely a disease of working age so that it has massive economic consequences , while physical illness is more concentrated in later life . in poorer countries by contrast physical illness has major impacts at every age but mental illness remains an equally important cause of low wellbeing .  another crucial determinant of happiness is the quality of human relationships - above all in the family but also in the community and at work . secure employment is vital for those who want to work and personal security against violence is vital for everyone . good governance is essential too - wellbeing studies show the corrosive effect of corruption , and the crucial role of personal freedom and the rule of law .  finally comes the environment . research shows clearly the importance of today 's environment for design , transport systems , and green space . but the environment is also important in a quite different sense , since how we treat the planet today determines the world which future generations will inhabit . so when we are considering happiness and quality of life , we must take into account those future generations as well as our own .  the implications of all this evidence are far reaching . here are six of the most important actions which are required if we want to create a happier society :  mental health . evidence-based treatment should be as available for mental illness ( including depression and anxiety disorders ) as it is for physical illness .  economic policy . employment is so important that no risks should be taken with economic stability , simply in order to increase economic growth .  communities . measures to promote economic growth should be accompanied by explicit policies to sustain social cohesion , stable family life , and personal security .  equality . more equal incomes are desirable because extra money improves wellbeing more for the poor than a country increases mutual respect and trust , which are crucial for wellbeing .  schools . schools should aim explicitly at developing young people who are emotionally resilient and eager to contribute to the social good .  families . stable families are so important that every society needs its own system of support for couples in conflict .  governments should make the happiness of the people the main outcome which they pursue . as thomas jefferson said " the care of human life and happiness ... is the only legitimate object of good government " . that is why there is now a growing demand to include subjective wellbeing in the new post-2015 sustainable development goals .  but , perhaps most importantly of all , we need to encourage a more empathic and caring culture , where people care less about what they can get for themselves and more about the happiness of others .  this is why i 'm supporting the day of happiness , when action for happiness is encouraging people everywhere to make a personal pledge to live in a way that contributes made that our central purpose in life we would have a far happier and more cohesive world .