6 global catastrophes that could kill your gadgets forever
http://www.techradar.com/news/world-of-tech/future-tech/6-global-catastrophes-that-could-kill-your-gadgets-forever-1204822

6 global catastrophes that could kill your gadgets forever  lock up your tech , disaster is on its way  since the sony walkman crashed onto the shelves worldwide in 1980 , consumer technology has slowly been taking over our lives .  from washing machines to digital watches and from electronic word processors to modern tablet computers , the march of technology has been unstoppable .  it now sits at the heart of everything we do , as we manage our schedules with google calendar , keep in touch via facebook and mobile phones and entertain ourselves with games consoles and netflix .  but it could all change in an instant . the ( atrocious ) nbc drama series revolution explores what the world would be like if all technology were to suddenly stop working . an appalling prospect , but could it actually happen ? here are six scenarios for the death of tech .  1 . financial collapse  bubbles always burst in the end , and a catastrophic failure of the global markets would certainly stagnate the development of collapse of this nature is certainly not hard to imagine . indeed , technology itself has often been blamed for financial crisis in the first place . the late charles p kindleberger was just one of the historians to lay the blame for many a crash at the door of technological innovations .  the truth is that technology changes the world in ways that are rarely predicted . it brings us back to the well-trodden theory that humans will eventually destroy themselves . but if there 's one looming disaster that could cause the mother of all financial disasters and the end of the connected , technological world as we know it , it 's be the ( hypothetical ) horror story of peak oil ...  tech that might survive:bitcoin becomes the de facto currency of the new order ! litecoin rebels plot in secret for global domination .  2 . peak oil  peak oil refers to the exact point in human history where oil production reaches its absolute peak and then begins to decline until it runs dry completely . the theory goes that when this rise as supply diminishes , causing huge and unstoppable price escalations ( sound familiar ? ) , eventually reaching the point where no one can afford oil anymore , bringing the whole industrialised world to a grinding halt .  so why is this relevant to technology ? well because everything we know and rely on in the 21st century is entirely dependent on an ever increasing supply of oil out of the ground . this is how we 're able to continue printing money every day without inflation taking over , making tangible oil supplies absolutely critical to sustainable economies . but more than that , oil is used in practically every single aspect of human life , including the , conception , design , manufacture and shipping of our gadgets .  " all plastic is oil . most paints , all pesticides are made from oil . everything from toothpaste to toothbrushes is made from oil . there are 7 gallons of oil in every tyre . there is nothing anywhere in any combination that will replace the edifice built by fossil fuels . nothing . " michael the manufacture process , it 's used to build cars and planes and ships and to fuel the transportation of products around the world . it 's the most important raw material on our planet and when it 's gone , there will be nothing to replace it . in short , without oil , there would be no way for foxconn to manufacture apple 's iphones , and certainly no way to then ship them around the world . the fact is that oil is a finite resource and one day it will run out . on top of that , we do n't even have any idea how much oil is left , and when it runs out we could see the biggest population crash in human history .  tech that might survive : hand made tools and toys . use them to plough the garden to grow your own food . pee on everything .  3 . solar superstorm  every joule of energy we use on earth ultimately comes from the sun . but the sun also looms over us as one of our biggest out the hydro-electric power grid in canada , leaving millions of canadians and americans without power .  a massive solar flare has the power to knock out satellites , communications systems and damage the digital technologies we now all use daily  a massive solar flare has the power to knock out satellites , communications systems and damage the digital technologies we now all use daily - phones , tablets , computers , smartwatches . most of these things did n't exist in the 1980s . hurricane katrina cost in the region of $100m to recover from - a solar storm could cost up to $2trillion .  some studies of solar activity say the risk of a serious event will peak in 2015 , threatening to leave many places without power for months . it might not even be our own sun that bathes us in this harmful radiation . any star in our galaxy within a few tens of lightyears would cause mayhem beyond imagination if it went supernova or worse , hypernova .  tech that might survive : mechanical timepieces . your digital watch is dead  4 . cyber terrorism  there are many ways that an unprecedented cyber attack could take down our tech and change the world forever . computer viruses could , in theory , devastate our infrastructure to the point where every digital device on the planet would be left useless . stuxnet is one active example of this threat .  stuxnet is an infamous computer worm and was first detected in 2010 . of unknown origin , it 's assumed to have been coded by the us and israel in order to destroy iran 's uranium enrichment infrastructure . the worm is highly complex and spreads indiscriminately between all kinds of devices , searching for and targeting the very specific computer codes that control the centrifuges inside nuclear power stations .  " we 've connected all of our lives - personal , professional and national , to the internet . that 's where the bad guys will go because that 's where our lives are , our money , our secrets . " fbi director james comey  whatever its original purpose , the worm escaped into the wild control from device to device all over the world , attempting to find more nuclear centrifuges to destroy ( it spins them out of control so that they disintegrate , while fooling computer systems and engineers into believing all systems are running normally ) .  now imagine a super-worm that 's designed to do a similar thing to android smartphones and windows pcs and you 've got a potentially world-changing technological disaster on your hands . cyber terrorism has so far been only a minor threat but it 's likely to become a more serious obstacle in the decades ahead .  nuclear oblivion comes hand in hand with an additional threat , of course - the dreaded electromagnetic pulses which have the same sort of effect as a geomagnetic storm . a large nuclear bomb detonated high in the atmosphere above a developed country could potentially kill every mobile phone , computer , car and power station in the area . a carefully targeted emp attack could bring a developed country to its knees .  tech that might survive : the wind-up radio . unfortunately as transmitters are there 's nothing to listen to except the sounds of the cosmos , natch.  6 . heat death of the universe  this is some way off , but it 's worth mentioning because there is a fundamental law of physics - the second law of thermodynamics - that says that eventually , every gadget and piece of technology , along with every living organism and every celestial object in the entire universe , will one day disintegrate and die .  the only way to escape this cold fate would be to either travel back in time or escape to another dimension . as the universe expands it will reach a state of thermodynamic equilibrium , or maximum entropy , a state of zero thermodynamic free energy . so there would be no stars , no planets , no people and no iphone 4,569,000 's . even individual atoms will decay into sub-atomic particles .  " with or without warp drives , the long-term fate of the cosmos can not be postponed or avoided . no matter where you hide , you will be part of a universe degrasse tyson  of course , for this death to be sealed , every black hole in the universe would have to evaporate through hawking radiation which would take about a googol ( 10 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 , ? 000 ) years . so you 've still just about got time to charge your galaxy tab before we all head over to milliways , the restaurant at the end of the universe ( this is , of course , impossible ) .