Artist Blog | Daniel Green of Laish - The Congested Noisy Cloud
http://www.forfolkssake.com/blog/26074/artist-blog-daniel-green-of-laish-the-congested-noisy-cloud

artist blog daniel green of laish -- the congested noisy cloud  hi ! pleased to meet you . in case we have n't met before , my name is daniel and i am the singer , guitarist and songwriter who goes out under the name , laish ( lie-shh ) . i 've been kicking around in brighton and now london for a wee while , bandying this rather awkward band name about on posters in large , bold fonts . i 've released a couple of albums , a few music videos , and played a hundred odd gigs , both solo and with a tremendous band . and all of the music i have created , i have just set as a free download on bandcamp .  why ?  well , here 's the thing . the most recent album , obituaries , was released in march . there was a huge spike of interest during the release campaign as i did all the things a switched-on , modern musician does for his/her baby . i spent a load of money getting record label to help distribute the album into record shops and online retailers . i invested some serious cash into a press and a radio campaign . i organised release parties in london and brighton . i organised a uk tour . i arranged for a couple of wonderful music videos to be created . i tweeted and facebooked to my heart 's content ....  i coordinated this whole military operation because it was my job to do so and because it feels great to do all these things . it is hard labour , but it is a labour of love . it is very satisfying watching all this work lead to something . people were finally listening to my music and enjoying it and the reviewers were writing very positive reviews . and some people were buying the cd and paying for the download . hurrah !  but a release has a life span . the sales have stopped . flatlined . i am still yet to recoup the costs i spent on producing and marketing the album . and now the album is old ( where as people discover the songs from that album they can stream it all for free on bandcamp . you can stream it all for free on spotify . you can watch all the videos on youtube for free . it 's all for free ! everything is free !  so i set them as free download on bandcamp four days ago and did a few tweets about it . here 's a stat . a third of every copy of the obituaries album that has ever been downloaded from my bandcamp page happened in the last four days .  if people do n't want to pay for it , why fight it ? will those people invest later on in the laish fund ? maybe . it 's a risk . perhaps they will fall in love with the obituaries album and come and see my next show . or perhaps they will be ready to spend ? 8-10 on the next new album .  i decided that i would rather someone download my music from my own outstretched arm than do it sneakily from a torrent . download and gave me their email address so i can tell them about the next gig and new release than listening to it on spotify , as an anonymous and passive listener .  the reverse option would be to remove my albums from as many free services as possible . take down all the youtube videos . remove it from spotify . set the bandcamp album so that only a couple of tracks are streamable and you must buy it to hear the rest . well i could do that . but doing so would be to fly in the face of the internet . i would only further encourage the torrenters and i would simply reduce any online presence the name laish would have . we would be invisible .  we live in the internet age . as musicians or content creators we are all simply contributing to a congested and noisy cloud . increasingly people do n't want the physical product of the cd . they just want the music , silly . so we 're asking people to pay for something essentially invisible that they can few teething problems with this arrangement .  so instead i scream loudly from my desk : " take it , take it all ! "  it would be my honour and pleasure to freely contribute to your itunes library . add laish to a playlist . find a suitable time to listen to it . it 's definitely not party music , perhaps it 's too intense to listen to when you 're making love . maybe it 's driving music . you could definitely clean a mean kitchen to it . why not send one of our videos to that guy on tinder you want to impress . or do a tweet about the varying lengths of my hair on google images . come see me at a show and tell me what you think . buy the cd as a christmas present for that uncle who still has a cd player .  lend us a tenner .  just do n't ever ask me to play a gig for free . unless you like emails that contain only one line and are 60% swear word .