It's not easy being a vinyl junkie
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/thinking-man/10492095/Its-not-easy-being-a-vinyl-junkie.html

vinyl record sales are at a 10-year high , but feeding the habit these days requires patience , research and stamina , says joshua burt  back in the olden days , when i started collecting music , you basically had two options : vinyl or tape ?  this proved to be not much of a dilemma at all , considering one option was clearly more lovable and charming than the other - the former being a gorgeous disc of inescapable beauty , the other an unruly plastic rectangle destined to be chewed up and spat out by your crumby hi-fi .  now , years later , the choices facing music lovers are manifold , from itunes to spotify , from the countless other digital options to cds ( wait , can you still buy cds ? ) . yet one thing has n't changed : i 'm still pretty much vinyl only .  i 'm used to it , i 'm loyal to it and i prefer the look , feel and sound of it -- as , it seems , does a dramatic upsurge in vinyl record sales , which is now at a 10-year high . for many of this new breed of vinyl junkies , record shopping is not the instinctive , practical act that it was for their elderly hunter-gatherer forefathers ; it is an ancient skill to be learnt , like stonemasonry or grammar .  like any ancient skill , the raw materials are not as plentiful as they once were , but that makes it an altogether more satisfying pursuit . however , there are strict rules and guidelines that must be observed if you want to be become a committed vinyl enthusiast , as follows .  related articles  with vinyl you ca n't just type a few words into a search box and almost immediately experience the results . vinyl is not for those seeking instant gratification : it involves a physical transaction , so nine times out of ten you might even have to venture out of the house . this means there 's going to be jeopardy all around you . perhaps the record you 're looking for wo n't be in while , in a number of different places . given the fact that you are probably looking for an unpopular album ( and not the new one direction release ) , on a relatively unpopular format , and that the days of record shops on every high street are long gone , you could be pounding the pavement for some time . vinyl enthusiasts need the patience of a jr hartley , the eyes of an eagle , and possibly the stamina of an ironman athlete . stay strong . nothing beats the moment when you find what you were looking for .  do your homework  unlike the new new wave of vinyl fans , i started getting into music long before the internet was invented . back in those days if pop was n't your bag you 'd have to home-school yourself by scouring the music press and obscure fanzines , or examining the sleevenotes of albums to find out who the best producers were . i even used to read stock lists from specialist records shops . you need that kind of dedication with vinyl . be , you can now find most of your information using zany robotronic tools like " the web " . which is sort of cheating , but let 's not make things harder than they need to be .  always listen to the whole record  digital music has done its level best to murder the long player as a viable artform . why buy 12 tracks when you can download tracks three and seven only ? after all , they were the catchiest when you previewed the album on itunes . records -- real , physical ones - demand that you listen to albums from start to finish . they remind you that most records by artists worth their salt have some sort of narrative structure to them , requiring concentration and an attention span , rather than an itchy fast-forward finger and the brain of an impatient goldfish . with vinyl , even if you wanted to switch between tracks and artists all the time , you ca n't , because it 's such a hassle having to repeatedly change one record for another -- these things were n't goodness for that .  find your record shop  local record shops used to be intimidating places jammed with competitive music nerds trying to out-do one another , and for the most part not much has changed ( except that the shops themselves are fewer and farther between ) . people still argue about great songs , they still ca n't settle the great phil spector vs motown christmas album debate , and there will always be a music nazi stationed behind the counter whose main function is to frighten you into buying " important " experimental jazz records . but they 're also rich , entertaining and rewarding places - perfect for any vinyl novice willing to wile away the hours flicking through empty sleeves while listening to obscure sounds . and do n't worry , before long you 'll be a competitive music nerd just like the rest of the clientele . find a shop to call your own and soon you 'll feel right at home .  embrace the crackles  after years of overplaying , you 'll find that some of your favourite records develop by surprise , but you will soon learn to love these small blemishes . they 're like the laughter lines that appear around a loved one 's eyes as they get older . they eventually just become part of the package , and if anything you 'll love them even more for it . it 's like having your own special version .  make room for your collection  besides the sound quality generally being better than on any other medium , another treat that comes with vinyl is the physicality of it , the lovely pictures , the gatefold sleeves , the amount of space the damn things take up . in a world where possessions have given way to digital files , vinyl records are tangible and tactile . they are mementos of a life well lived and money well spent , and they satisfy the senses . comparing a vinyl album to a compressed mp3 file is like comparing christmas dinner with astronaut food . remember , this stuff is n't clutter , whatever anyone tells you . think of it as an art installation that will my wife. )