Syria conflict: Aleppo strikes 'overwhelm' hospitals
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-25421672

' Chaos '  Aitor Zabalgogeazkoa , Medecins Sans Frontieres ( MSF ) ' s co-ordinator in Syria , said that in the past three days , helicopters had been targeting different areas , among them a school and the Haydarya roundabout , where people wait for public transport .  " In both cases , there were dozens of dead and injured people . A dozen bodies were being lined up in front of three hospitals waiting to be recovered by the families , " he added .  Image caption Fifteen people , including two children , were killed in Aleppo 's Shaar district on Monday  Image caption It was the third straight day of air raids on the city , formerly Syria 's commercial hub  Image caption The air force had been dropping barrels of explosives from helicopters and warplanes , activists said  MSF said the emergency was overcrowding the already stretched network of hospitals in Aleppo - most of which have been partially damaged or destroyed by more than a year of fierce fighting - and leaving them with little to chaos and make it more difficult to treat the wounded , therefore increasing the number of fatalities , " Mr Zabalgogeazkoa said .  " The ambulances are overwhelmed because they are called to several areas at the same time . Doctors face extremely difficult decisions because they receive such a significant flow of patients . "  MSF said the massive influx of patients after the air strikes had emptied the stocks of critical drugs and medical materials for life-saving activities . The international humanitarian organisation said it had sent fresh supplies , but that many patients had to be sent elsewhere .  It called on all parties in the conflict to stop targeting civilian infrastructure and to stop using weapons with indiscriminate effects in urban areas .  British medic dies  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said on Monday that the situation in Syria had " deteriorated beyond all imagination " and insisted that both sides stopped fighting before attending a proposed conference to find a political solution to the conflict in January .  On Tuesday , UN officials confirmed that the so-called Geneva II .  There are not enough hotel rooms left in Geneva on the 22 January because thousands of luxury watchmakers will be staying in the city for a trade fair .  After one day of talks between foreign ministers in Montreux , the conference will break up and reconvene on 24 January at the UN 's headquarters in Geneva .