Dentons continues Middle East push with hire of V&amp;E's Abu Dhabi ...
http://www.legalweek.com/legal-week/news/2319551/dentons-continues-middle-east-push-with-hire-of-v-e-s-abu-dhabi-head

legal week independent law firms forum brings together managing partners and senior management from independent law firms from across the globe to debate and discuss challenges facing their firms . the event will also include a networking reception on the evening prior to the conference .  the ninth annual corporate counsel forum middle east brings together high profile general counsel , senior in-house lawyers and business leaders from the gulf jurisdictions to debate and discuss the challenges they are facing in a one-day conference .  after the controversial google spain decision , the court of justice of the eu handed down another important decision on 1 october 2015 , concerning slovak company weltimmo and the hungarian data protection authority . the case addresses two important questions , as this briefing explains .  insolvency law in the british virgin islands ( bvi ) is almost entirely codified in the insolvency act 2003 and supplemented by the insolvency rule 2005 . the act was modelled largely on the uk 's insolvency act 1986 , but with a number of key differences . this 11-point harneys guide dentons continues middle east push with hire of v&amp;e 's abu dhabi head  alex newman  17 december 2013  tweet  facebook  linkedin  google plus  save this article  send to  dentons has hired vinson &amp; elkins ' ( v&amp;e ) abu dhabi managing partner jonathan nash , in an expansion of its energy practice . nash , an international project finance and development lawyer , joined v&amp;e from chadbourne &amp; parke 's london office in 2010 . he becomes dentons ' third senior lateral hire in the region in a little over a month , following the recruitment of dla piper construction partner ian dalley in abu dhabi and banking and norton rose fulbright finance partner alex roussos in dubai .  dentons has hired vinson &amp; elkins ' ( v&amp;e ) abu dhabi managing partner jonathan nash , in an expansion of its energy practice . nash , an international project finance and development lawyer , joined v&amp;e from ...