BLP appoints new head of EPI group as Younson leaves firm
http://www.legalweek.com/legal-week/news/2319554/blp-appoints-new-head-of-epi-group-as-younson-leaves-firm

Legal Week Independent Law Firms Forum brings together managing partners and senior management from independent law firms from across the globe to debate and discuss challenges facing their firms . The event will also include a networking reception on the evening prior to the conference .  The ninth annual Corporate Counsel Forum Middle East brings together high profile general counsel , senior in-house lawyers and business leaders from the Gulf jurisdictions to debate and discuss the challenges they are facing in a one-day conference .  After the controversial Google Spain decision , the Court of Justice of the EU handed down another important decision on 1 October 2015 , concerning Slovak company Weltimmo and the Hungarian data protection authority . The case addresses two important questions , as this briefing explains .  Insolvency law in the British Virgin Islands ( BVI ) is almost entirely codified in the Insolvency Act 2003 and supplemented by the Insolvency Rule 2005 . The Act was modelled largely on the UK 's Insolvency Act 1986 , but with a number of key differences . This 11-point Harneys guide BLP appoints new head of EPI group as Younson leaves firm  Anna Reynolds  17 December 2013  Tweet  Facebook  LinkedIn  Google plus  Save this article  Send to  Berwin Leighton Paisner has appointed Lisa Mayhew as head of its employment , pensions and incentives ( EPI ) practice , following the departure of Fraser Younson last week . Younson -- a former McDermott Will &amp; Emery and Baker &amp; McKenzie partner - spent seven years at BLP , joining the firm in 2006 as EPI head . His destination is not yet known .  Berwin Leighton Paisner ( BLP ) has appointed Lisa Mayhew as head of its employment , pensions and incentives ( EPI ) practice , following the departure of Fraser Younson last week .  Younson - a former McDermott Will &amp; Emery and Baker &amp; McKenzie partner - spent seven years at BLP , joining the firm in 2006 as EPI head . His destination is not yet known .  Mayhew joined BLP in 2010 from Jones Day . Mayhew previously worked at Hogan Lovells as a partner successfully defended Merrill Lynch in the UK 's biggest-ever sex discrimination case - the ? 7.8m claim brought by former executive Stephanie Villalba , which ended in 2006 .  Mayhew has been on BLP 's board since 2012 . The firm 's EPI group now has six partners and is recruiting another lawyer in the new Year . The group currently acts for seven investment banks and other large corporate clients .  Mayhew said : " Our BLP Employment Team has enjoyed an upward journey , progressing from a small team with medium market profile and clients , to becoming one of the largest teams in the City and a Tier 1 ranked practice in the leading legal directories . Our focus will be consolidating our recent success and continuing to provide a market-leading service to our corporate clients . "  Younson is the latest practice group head to leave the firm in recent months , following finance head Matthew Kellet in October and private equity head Raymond McKeeve who announced in August he was leaving to join Jones Day .