Saltaire launches œ2m bid to make more of World Heritage Site
http://www.thetelegraphandargus.co.uk/news/local/localbrad/10894281.Saltaire_launches___2m_bid_to_make_more_of_World_Heritage_Site/

saltaire launches ? 2m bid to make more of world heritage site  a new group working to share the stories of saltaire and make more of the village 's world heritage site status is looking to raise almost ? 2 million to bring its plans to fruition .  the saltaire world heritage education association ( swhea ) wants to establish a saltaire interpretation centre in victoria hall 's fluke room , improve facilities for schools and groups at the united reformed church and create a researchers ' room at shipley college .  it also plans to catalogue and display the thousands of items in the saltaire archive , which are currently being sorted through , to display in rotation at victoria hall and create a digital record of the archive .  steering group member molly kenyon said the group wanted to create something which would benefit the village for many years .  she said : " saltaire has been a world heritage site since 2001 and we 've not got a heritage centre open - it 's one of only two in said , adding that world heritage sites recently featured on television show pointless and few people knew of its status .  " saltaire is my long-term commitment and all of us in the groups are concerned about getting this right . "  promoted stories  the first stage of fundraising is ongoing with the group needing to raise ? 30,000 as matching funds for a heritage lottery grant application in may . she added : " we 've had a good response so far . "  in all , around ? 1.8 million is needed to develop swhea 's vision and activity programme , which has the working title , saltaire stories : past , present and future the group , which is being set up as a charitable incorporated organisation , also hopes to encourage research into the impacts of industrial change and globalisation on the local textile industry and the lives of village residents .  three organisations are working to create the group -- the salt foundation , which holds victoria hall in a charitable trust ; shipley college , which holds the saltaire archive which provides space for visiting groups .  share article  members are also working with groups involved in saltaire learning which creates and promotes learning resources about saltaire .  to get involved , contact molly kenyon on ( 01274 ) 593585 , or world heritage site officer helen thornton on ( 01274 ) 435319 .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here  it looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? click here to learn more .  so we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . how do i turn off my ad-blocker ?