The surprising uses for birdsong
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-22298779

the surprising uses for birdsong  a 90-second daily show highlighting the songs of british birds has started on bbc radio 4 this week . but birdsong is n't just beautiful to listen to , it is increasingly being used in surprising ways .  can a nightingale 's song help you pass an exam or a blackbird 's twittering encourage you to open a bank account ? sound experts are using it to do both .  they argue the positive results speak for themselves even though researchers say there is little hard scientific evidence to show people respond positively to birds singing . most support for the theory is anecdotal .  so what are the innovative ways it is being used ?  homework  far too often noise can make it hard to concentrate , be it a loud television , loud traffic or loud people . but audio experts say certain sounds can make it easier to focus and they include birds singing .  find out more  what makes birdsong so special is that it relaxes people physically but stimulates business and chairman of noise consultancy the sound agency . birdsong creates a state he calls " body relaxed , mind alert " .  " people find birdsong relaxing and reassuring because over thousands of years they have learnt when the birds sing they are safe , it 's when birds stop singing that people need to worry . birdsong is also nature 's alarm clock , with the dawn chorus signalling the start of the day , so it stimulates us cognitively . "  treasure has used birdsong to develop a free smartphone app called study . it claims to be a " productivity-boosting " soundscape to listen to while you work . it can help focus , improve cognition and reduce tiredness , treasure argues . it 's also designed to mask background noise that can disturb concentration , particularly conversation .  the effect of birdsong on our brains is being researched by eleanor ratcliffe . she is carrying out a three-year study looking at how natural sounds can improve mood and attention for her phd in environmental psychology at the university of surrey . the wildlife trust .  " we need to find out if , how and why birdsong can be of psychological benefit . many people believe it is , " she says .  post-meal slump  birdsong in poetry  the nightingale has probably the most celebrated song , with john keats describing the bird pouring forth thy soul abroad in such an ecstasy ! in his 1819 ode to a nightingale .  samuel taylor coleridge 's 1798 poem the nightingale reads : and hark ! the nightingale begins its song . " most musical , most melancholy " bird ! ... so his song should make all nature lovelier , and itself be loved like nature !  william wordsworth wrote the skylark 's babbling song dost pour upon the world a flood of harmony in his 1805 verse to a skylark .  in the science world it 's known as postprandial somnolence but in the everyday world it 's commonly known as the post-meal slump .  it 's the period after a meal when blood sugar levels drop , causing you to get sleepy .  likely solutions , researchers are looking into what can lift people out of this soporific state after lunch . birdsong has been found to work , they say .  an experiment at a primary school in liverpool - run by " sonic branding " company condiment junkie , glyndwr university and architects nightingale associates - found that playing pupils a soundscape of birdsong and other natural sounds made them more alert and better able to concentrate after their lunch break .  the key to the most effective audio was lack of repetition , say those involved .  birdsong works because it 's stochastic , made up of lots of random sounds . there is no repeating rhythm or pattern to focus on .  " it does n't get stuck in your head and annoy you but it does n't lull you to sleep and bore you either , " says russell jones , from condiment junkie .  " i 'm not sure there is any other sound that can do what birdsong does . it should be part of the soundtrack to everyone 's day . along the corridors of alder hey children 's hospital in liverpool among the noise of everyday hospital life you will hear birdsong .  patients recorded the sound of birds in a local park as part of a project with the foundation for creative technology ( fact ) and award-winning wildlife sound recordist chris watson .  amsterdam 's schiphol airport uses birdsong in a quiet lounge where people can relax before their flight . along with other calming methods birdsong is played through speakers hidden in real trees . last month the airport was voted the third best in the world at the world airport awards and last year 95% of passengers rated it as good or excellent , according to schiphol 's own figures .  such projects try to use native birdsongs as they think they will be most successful . ratcliffe is looking at responses to different birdsong and , depending on the outcome , it 's a possibility that in the future people could be prescribed certain bits of birdsong to suit their individual needs .  " it would be nice to say to people says .  the national trust suggests people listen to birdsong for a few minutes a day to combat low moods . sound expert julian treasure agrees .  " it resets the ears , allows us to hear properly . most of us walk around with our ears switched off because so much noise is unpleasant . unlike so many other sounds there 's no maximum exposure to birdsong . "  business  treasure worked on one project in colombia to rebrand a bank . as well as the visual side of things , a soundscape was also created that included birdsong .  the rebranding resulted in a " dramatic uplift " in people opening new accounts and customer approval ratings rose from 64% to 90% in just six months , says treasure .  bp also used birdsong when research revealed toilets in its petrol stations were having a negative effect on customers ' feelings about the bp brand . a strategy was drawn up to improve the toilets including , among other things , a birdsong soundscape . the aim was to create a mental connection services in cambridgeshire and across europe . customer satisfaction ratings rose by 50% , says treasure .  " architects need to start designing for our ears as well as our eyes , " says treasure . " businesses also need to recognise its importance . good sound is good business . "