'Foodstagrammers' aren't just annoying - they may have a ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2321307/Foodstagrammers-arent-just-annoying--psychological-problem-says-leading-psychiatrist.html

people who obsessively take pictures of what they are eating or cooking and post them online may be ill , according to a leading expert .  foodstagramming is a trend which involves taking pictures of your food and posting it on instagram and twitter .  the craze has become so popular that some restaurants have stopped customers from taking photos of their meals because the flashes and manoeuvrings of food disrupts other diners .  craze : a recent ' foodstagram ' shows a person 's birthday cake which they could n't resist eating before taking a picture  in january , michelin-starred new york chef david bouley banned customera who foodstagrammed in his restaurant .  but dr valerie taylor , chief of psychiatry at women 's college hospital at the university of toronto , argues that religiously documenting each meal might not only be annoying but the sign of a more sinister problem too .  related articles  share this article  share  ' i see clients for whom food has become problematic , and they struggle to go out and interaction : what they eat , when they ate , when they are going to eat again , ' dr taylor told the huffington post .  dr taylor gave a talk at the canadian obesity summit in vancouver last week about eating disorders and the role that food plays in modern society and culture .  ' the concern becomes when all they do is send pictures of food , ' she added .  fast foodstagramming : the trend is even leading people to document the more mundane food they consume  ' we take pictures of things that are important to us , and for some people , the food itself becomes central and the rest - -- the venue , the company , et cetera -- is background . '  while taylor argues that producing such images may signal an unhealthy preoccupation with food and in turn an eating disorder , others have linked the consumption of food photography to weight gain .