The end of print-money-and-pray economics?
http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/douglascarswellmp/100222507/the-end-of-print-money-and-pray-economics/

douglas carswell  douglas carswell was first elected to parliament in 2005 by a slender 920 votes . he was returned as mp for clacton in 2010 with a 12,000 majority . he is the author of the end of politics and the birth of idemocracy and believes that the internet is making the world a vastly better place .  as long as central banks keep conjuring up new money through qe , or quantitative easing , the extra money will manifest itself someplace . and so it has , pumping up the price of shares and other assets .  back in the 1970s when governments printed money , it tended to be retail prices that were inflated . today , it is asset prices that go up . stop printing money , and those asset prices are likely to come down .  but that is not the only hangover from the qe splurge that we are likely to see .  faced with a serious economic crisis in 2007-08 , western governments -- encouraged by lots of expert economists -- decided that the . easy money and credit , they believed , would boost economic output and allow recovery .  the trouble is that all that cheap money and credit has had a distortive effect -- and not just on the value of the ftse 100 or the price of luxury flats in central london . cheap money and credit has meant enormous levels of what economists call malinvestment . like cholesterol , malinvestment clogs up the economic arteries .  we are often told that in the first decade of this century , the uk economy experienced a spectacular boom-bust cycle . perhaps the reality is that we had the boom part , but that the government 's aggressive monetary intervention after 2007-08 means that we never really had the bust bit . boom-bust turned out to be more boom-no bust cycle .  as qe comes to an end , the key question is not whether the stock market comes down , but rather , how much malinvestment is there still in the system . have we really managed to avoid the bust bit in the boom-bust cycle , or merely @ @ @