Can DirectAccess take over the world?
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/06/20/server_2012_directaccess_review/

review microsoft believes that directaccess is such a critical feature of windows that we will soon wonder how we lived without this fundamental part of network infrastructure .  having played with it i think microsoft is very close to being right , but there are some bugs to work out and misconceptions to dispel .  internet protocol version 6 ( ipv6 ) promises rainbows and kittens because every device with an ipv6 address can communicate directly with any other . that is a happy world for application developers .  many who preach the gospel of end-to-end connectivity have assured me that the world will collapse unless we drastically lower the knowledge required to develop an internet-connected application .  direct answer  but network and systems administrators are somewhat less keen on having their network attack surface transformed from a single externally addressable system into every system plugged into the network .  for reasons of " you do not pay me enough for this " , administrators prefer defending one device instead of thousands .  sadly , application developers won the war of securing the future rests on network administrators . and that is why directaccess was created .  in its original incarnation directaccess mediated communication between a client 's public ipv6 and a company 's ipv6-enabled server fleet . directaccess verified that the computer attempting access was domain-joined , patched , authorised for access and so forth . it provided a single point of defence , even in an ipv6 world .  in a future where the right of anyone with a computer to directly address every device on your network ( from your internet-connected light bulb to a hospital 's medical equipment ) is enshrined in nerd law , directaccess gives microsoft-using administrators a fighting chance .  if you can master directaccess , then you can take advantage of the benefits end-to-end connectivity can offer while mitigating the risks .  most of the confusion surrounding directaccess stems from the fact that it is no more a single technology than microsoft exchange is . what we think of as exchange is a large collection of highly interdependent applications . these in turn are dependent upon applications that we information services ( iis ) and certificate management .  firewall extension  directaccess is no different . the second misconception we need to deal with is that , despite layers of confusing marketing , directaccess access is not a virtual private network ( vpn ) . vpn-like technologies are almost always involved in a directaccess configuration , but they are to directaccess as iis is to exchange ( or dns to active directory ) .  directaccess is a first attempt at making an ipv6 firewall that mere mortals can ( supposedly ) comprehend . in essence , the core executable is a connection broker . you connect to it , it verifies you are who you say you are and then lets you access company resources .  indeed , directaccess will not work if you disable windows firewall . if you think of directaccess as an extension of windows firewall ( rather than a vpn technology ) the rest of this overview will make a lot more sense .  in the real world , almost no one has ipv6 for all internal servers , for all the that you might want to have a client connect to your network . it will be decades before this becomes a reality .  this means that any practical directaccess deployment relies upon some other technologies . at a minimum it uses isatap to ensure ipv6 connectivity between all intranet sites and connected clients .  directaccess also uses the nat64 and dns64 protocol translators to ensure that clients can access ipv4 systems on your network . the server 2008 r2 version did not include these elements as part of the core offering ; server 2012 does .  in addition to being made up of several sub technologies , directaccess has been merged into the larger remote access role within server 2012 . it is no longer seen as a novel technology and has become merely one more sub-component of remoteaccess.