Google and ISPs efforts won't stop spread of child abuse images ...
http://www.itpro.co.uk/security/20043/google-and-isps-efforts-wont-stop-spread-child-abuse-images-warns-netclean-ceo

share  efforts to curb the availability of child abuse images online should not be limited to the searchable web , as criminals are increasingly turning to p2p networks and the dark web to distribute content .  this week has seen a series of isps and web firms talk up the work they are doing to clamp down on the proliferation of child abuse images on the net .  google announced plans to invest millions of pounds in this area , while talk talk , bt , sky and virgin media committed to collectively invest ? 1 million over the next four years in tackling the problem .  the bulk of their activities seem to be centred on the eradication , tracking and blocking of child abuse images on the searchable web ,  however , concerns have been raised that not enough is being done to clampdown on similar content being shared via p2p and anonymised web networks .  speaking to it pro , christian berg , chief executive of netclean , said criminals are likely to use these alternative networks more on the searchable web .  " you can not solve this problem simply by blocking http traffic . it is an important piece of the puzzle , but there are so many ways of sharing this material and http addresses are not the preferred method of distribution , " he explained .  " there 's definitely not enough being done to tackle these hidden networks , and i know there is a will by law enforcers to do more , but resources are tight . "  he also said it is easy to tell search engines , social networks and the isp community they need to do more , but the issue is not quite as straight forward as that .  " people look at google and the isps and say this is a problem of the internet and you 're a bit part of the internet , you have to fix it , " he explained .  " obviously , the internet is being used to spread it , but child abuse is really not an internet problem . it 's a human one . how to approach the issue have centred on url blocking , but berg questioned how effective a tool this is .  " it is usually employed to protect uk citizens from accidentally stumbling on illegal content , rather than track down criminals , he said .  " if you are into this material you do n't have to be very tech savvy to know how to circumnavigate it , " he added .  his company develops technologies and software that blocks and tracks the online spread of child abuse content , which is used by law enforcement agencies and enterprises .  " we sell our software to organisations that can scan their servers , their laptops and desktops for known child abuse images and videos , " he explained .  " we 're not talking about urls , but actual files , which means we can find things on usb sticks too , and  " we then tell the organisation they need to do an investigation and notify the police , " he added .