Hundreds of puffins and pufflings getting ready to leave Scotland
http://news.stv.tv/east-central/232954-hundreds-of-puffins-and-pufflings-getting-ready-to-leave-the-forth/

hundreds of puffins and pufflings getting ready to leave scotland  hundreds of puffins and their newborn pufflings are getting ready to leave scotland as the breeding season comes to and end .  the colourful birds have been nesting on islands in the forth off north berwick , east lothian for the past few months .  the population has managed to successfully breed despite severe weather conditions which saw around 3500 of the birds die . it also delayed the breeding season by around three weeks .  now they are preparing to return to the atlantic ocean and anyone keen to see them before they leave has until the end of july .  tom brock , from the scottish seabird centre , said : " we were concerned about the large number of puffin fatalities right up the east coast just before the start of the breeding season this year , which was probably due to late spring storms and malnourished birds .  " however , i am pleased to say that all indications are that this year 's breeding season has them carrying sand eels -- always a sure sign that they have chicks to feed - and for the last few weeks , visitors have able to spot the birds nesting with their chicks on isle of may and craigleith .  " the fact that the breeding season started late does n't mean we can expect the birds to remain in the area for longer than normal however , and the last week in july will probably the last chance to see them this year , until they return to breed again next may . "  we need to know where you are to make sure you get the right programmes . please enter your postcode in the box and select your address from the options . if your address is not one of the options , then contact us .  this field is required.please select an address from the dropdown .  now that you 've joined stv , we 'll be able to send you email updates about stv 's programmes and services . if you do n't want them , please tick this box . to click the join button below . by doing so , you confirm you have read and accept our terms of use , which includes our privacy policy and cookie policy , and that the details you have entered are correct . we 'll look after them as carefully as if they were our own . want to know more ?  locationplease tick this box to confirm that you are a resident of the uk , channel islands or isle of man.this field is required .  parental consentplease tick this box to confirm that you have received consent from a parent or guardian in order to complete this form and submit your vote.this field is required .  that 's you . all that 's left is to click the ' submit vote ' button below . by doing so , you confirm that you and your parent or guardian have read and accept our voting terms of use , privacy policy and cookie policy , and that the details you have entered are correct . we 'll look after them as carefully as if they were our own @