The portable canoe that can be folded to the size of a SUITCASE ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2364066/The-portable-canoe-folded-size-SUITCASE-fits-neatly-car-boot.html

the awkward job of transporting a canoe could soon be a thing of the past after an inventor has designed one that can be packed down to the size of a suitcase .  called a stakanoo , the boat is made of three sections that slot together in less than a minute to create the 7.6ft vessel .  these sections can then be separated and packed inside each other to make the 19kg boat fully portable so that it fits in the boot of a car with one seat folded down , on the backseats or stored in a cupboard at home .  a keen canoeist and inventor from somerset has designed a portable kayak . the stakanoo , pictured , is made of three sections that slot together and can be stacked together to fit into the back of a car or stored in a cupboard  when packed away , the stakanoo can fit comfortably into a car boot , pictured left , as well as sit across the backseat , right . the boat only weighs 19kg which means it can 60 seconds without the need for any specialist tools  the ? 800 foldable origami boat  last year two design students from london created a foldable boat based on the ones created using origami .  the full-size vessel is folded from a 8ft by 5ft piece of plastic and can be transformed from a flat sheet to a rowing boat by a single person in two minutes using only three components .  another model of the ? 800 ' foldboat ' can be folded up and carried in a backpack  the single sheet of plastic can be folded over and over again up to 6,000 times and comes in two designs - one that folds into an easy-to-carry parcel and one that unfolds completely flat .  the stakanoo is the brain child of keen canoeist and inventor stuart woodward from bath , somerset .  woodward designed the vessel as a solution to motorists stacking canoes and kayaks onto the roof of their cars .  he wanted to design a canoe that could be packed into the boot of a car to negate the need fuel efficiency because there is less drag created as the car drives on a motorway .  the stakanoo is made up of three slottable compartments - the tip of the bow connects to a section containing the seat and the midship , which then slots into the stern .  these sections have been designed in such a way so that they fit inside one another .  woodward claims it only takes 60 seconds to assemble the stakanoo and less time to fold it down .  related articles  share this article  and because the sections slot together , this can be done single-handedly without any tools .  when the three sections are fitted together the full length of the stakanoo is 7.6ft long and 2.25ft wide .  this series of images shows how the three slottable sections of the stakanoo fit together to form the 19kg portable boat , pictured top . these sections can then be unpacked and fitted together to form the 7.6ft vessel , pictured bottom , with the seat added  when it is packed away , the boat can the 46-year-old inventor started on the design in september last year following his trip to the coast and completed his first canoe in may .  he has now built two fibreglass stakanoos , which are on sale with bristol boats in saltford , and has a patent pending .  woodward is then hoping to liaise with a canoe manufacturer and he has two more variants designed in a longer , more traditional canoe shape with splashdecks fitted , which he hopes to make in the future .  the stakanoo is the brain child of 46-year-old stuart woodward , pictured in his invention , from bath , somerset . woodward wanted to design a portable alternative to roof-mounted canoes  woodward 's stakanoo costs ? 465 . only two models are currently available in bristol but the inventor plans to sell them across the country soon  he said : ' i was in cornwall last year and saw lots of canoes being transported on the roofs of cars , and thought there must be a better way of doing that .  ' i started designing a take-apart no more room than a large suitcase to make transport easier .  ' it fits in the car , so the car has maximum fuel economy on motorways .  ' it 's also much safer as it ca n't fall off the roof and it is easy to park in car parks as there is nothing overhanging .  ' it is easy to store when at home - you can place it under the stairs , in the garage or shed , in the loft . '  ' after two designs were not what i wanted , i found a way of making the sections slot together with no bolts , straps or tools .  ' i have taken it out on the river extensively and it paddles very well and turns in a tight circle .  it is a fun hybrid between a kayak and a canoe and you can you can just pack it up , put into in your boot and away you go . '