Sauber eases financial issues with new Russian sponsors but must ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/motorsport/formulaone/10179550/Sauber-eases-financial-issues-with-new-Russian-sponsors-but-must-give-Formula-One-race-seat-to-backers-son.html

Financially-threatened Swiss team Sauber have announced a partnership with three Russian companies which they hope will provide them with a " solid foundation " in the long term .  As part of the deal , 17-year-old Formula Renault 3.5 racer Sergey Sirotkin will be fast-tracked into a Formula One race seat , possibly as early as next year .  Sirotkin is the son of Oleg Sirotkin , who heads up the National Institute of Aviation Technologies , one of the trio of Russian companies involved in the partnership . The other two are the Investment Corporation International Fund and the State Fund of Development of Northwest Russian Federation .  Sauber 's future has been the subject of increasing paddock speculation in recent months . Last week , the Hinwil-based team said they would not stand in the way of their star German driver Nico Hulkenberg quitting the team amid reports that he has not been paid .  Team owner Peter Sauber denied those reports but admitted that the financial situation was " uncomfortable and embarrassing " .  Sauber , who first entered to keep their heads above water since their last partner BMW decided to pull out of Formula One at the end of 2009 . After a surprisingly strong campaign in 2012 , they have struggled on track this year .  " We are pleased to announce a partnership between the Investment Corporation International Fund , the State Fund of Development of North-West Russian Federation and the National Institute of Aviation Technologies with Sauber Motorsport AG , incorporating the promotion of the sport Formula 1 in Russia and jointly developing high-technological solutions , " said a Sauber statement .  " With the National Institute of Aviation Technologies , one of the leading scientific research institutions in Russia , the Sauber F1 team will benefit from the advanced know-how of the front-end Russian scientists and engineers .  " The objective of the partnership is to open up new perspectives and revenue streams by commercialising jointly developed technologies . "  Sirotkin , who has qualified in the top six five times in eight FR3.5 races this year , will not appear in this week 's young driver test at Silverstone as well as Hulkenberg .  But the intention is to have him in a race seat in time for next year 's inaugural Russian Grand Prix in Sochi .  " The partnership includes further activities for the promotion of the inaugural Formula One Grand Prix in Sochi in 2014 and attracting the talented young Russian generation towards motorsport , " said the statement .  " In particular , a development programme will be set up for the Russian driver Sergey Sirotkin to prepare him as a racing driver for the team in 2014 . "  The inclusion in the deal of the St Petersburg-based State Fund of Development of Northwest Russian Federation has led to speculation that Sochi , a Black Sea resort and the host of next year 's Winter Olympics , may not end up being the venue for the Russian GP in the long term .