Independent Producer of Electrochemical Gas Sensors
http://www.envirotech-online.com/news/air-monitoring/6/membrapor/independent_producer_of_electrochemical_gas_sensors/25993/

jul 15 2013 03:36 pmair monitoring  independent producer of electrochemical gas sensors  share this  as an independent producer of electrochemical gas sensors , membrapor ( switzerland ) is fully committed to quality , service and innovation . they aim to meet and even exceed specific customer needs , yet in niche applications . the company policy of founder and ceo dr. christian huggenberger is and has always been to concentrate on the development , manufacturing and marketing of premium sensors , i.e. state of the art products of high precision , reliability and longevity . the result are products with a minimum of service requirement and maximised value for money .  membrapor offers a variety of over 200 sensors , able to detect 20 different gases . some examples for innovative highlights of the last decade are the unbiased nh3 and hcl sensors with fastest response , a 4-electrodes co sensor with h2 compensation for flue gas analysis and a highly sensitive formaldehyde sensor . expecting the eu regulations to ban lead containing gas sensors in the near future , membrapor already offers o2 sensor with unique output and baseline . ahead of legislation , this helps to preserve the environment . the development of the l-type , a novel series of 4-electrode sensors capable to measure gas concentrations in the ppb range with high accuracy , is another innovative milestone .  since the foundation of the company in 1995 the constantly growing number of satisfied customers is securing membrapor 's steady , healthy and profitable growth . due to its constant growth , by october 2013 membrapor will significantly enlarge its production area again . each one of the entirely committed employees contribute to keep the satisfaction level of their customers high and to grow their number all over the globe .  in order to consolidate and strengthen its leading position , a considerable number of projects for product and process improvements as well as for customised solutions are under development at membrapor .  more from membrapor  request more information  your details will be referred to membrapor and they will provide you with more information regarding this press release themselves . if you have not logged into the reader comments ( total 0 comments )  do you like or dislike what you have read ? why not post a comment to tell others / the manufacturer and our editor what you think . to leave comments please complete the form below . providing the content is approved , your comment will be on screen in less than 24 hours . leaving comments on product information and articles can assist with future editorial and article content . post questions , thoughts or simply whether you like the content .  the environmental technology portfolio of printed titles and website offer a valuable advertising solution . in a recent survey 78% of respondents indicated that they use our titles to identify new products on the market ? are you in the latest issue ?