œ80k cash boost to make netball centre of excellence in Gwynedd
http://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/north-wales-news/80k-cash-boost-make-netball-5100988

? 80k cash boost to make netball centre of excellence in gwynedd  bangor netball dome will be completed by september  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  netball in gwynedd is set to get a cash boost  an ? 80,000 national lottery cash injection will help turn bangor into a " hotspot " for netball .  bangor netball dome , due to be completed by september , is a joint project with bangor university , working closely with sport wales and welsh netball .  they believe an average of 2,000 women and girls from the area will be regularly using the facility , which will have two undercover courts , by september 2016 .  the project will be co-ordinated by a welsh netball development officer based at bangor university .  the dome will provide both recreational back to netball and adult leisure classes as well as providing the opportunity to spot and support gifted young players .  it is forecast that the dome will allow the creation the development of new coaches from the area and secure competitive opportunities for both junior and senior players .  a total of ? 80,000 of calls of action funding has been awarded to bangor university to support the construction of the new purpose built facility which includes two permanent undercover courts , with appropriate heating and lighting to ensure year round play .  funding has also been allocated to disability sport wales and betsi cadwaladr university health board to provide a new service that will help those with an impairment to get more exercise .  it will help them find finding and access suitable clubs or activities to help maintain fitness levels .  funding has currently been agreed for three years and it is anticipated that more than 1,000 people per year will become regular participants in some form of physical activity or sport .  becoming fully self-sustainable after the three year funding period , it is hoped that the programme will then be rolled out across other welsh health trusts .  as a further benefit the partnership will also be aiming to identify and journey to compete at an elite international level .  adele baumgardt , sport wales board member , said : " community sport is at the heart of an active and healthy nation .  " we are proud of the developments that have been made in this area across wales , especially post-olympic and paralympic games .  " the challenge however in ensuring that we continue to develop , creating a lasting legacy in community sport , is in overcoming some long term and untouched barriers that will allow us to turn hundreds of participants into thousands , reaching out to groups not currently participating and making the reality of having every child hooked on sport for life more achievable . "  alongside the multiple long term health benefits the programme will aim to deliver through increased activity levels , it is also anticipated that many of the projects will also offer the creation of jobs and increased tourism opportunities .  tom overton , sport wales manager added : " we accept that there are currently obstacles which prevent specific groups from participating in community sport and access shortfalls .  " calls for action will address these barriers targeting underrepresented groups , improving access to facilities and providing individuals with opportunities to develop the right skills to be physically active .  " we have extremely ambitious plans in progressing community sport in terms of the numbers of participants that we want to see and also in the inclusion of specific groups who are not currently participating .  " the plans and forecasted outcomes of these projects look set to deliver a dramatic shift change against these ambitions . "  advertising  send a story  advertise with the daily post  print  the daily post is north wales ' best read daily newspaper .  reaching over 1 in 4 people in the area ( source : jicreg 01/10/12 , reaches 26.72%% of people within daily post area each month )  the daily post is a trustworthy and favourite local newspaper ( 108,000 people said the daily post was their favourite local newspaper , 135,000 people saying that the daily post is a trustworthy local newspaper - gfk nop 2008 )   andrew campbell joined the daily post in july 2015 after nine years as deputy editor and then print editor at the liverpool echo . before that , he spent five years in llandudno junction as news editor and then assistant editor of the daily post . middlesbrough-born andrew grew up in hereford and attended liverpool university before beginning his journalism career at the gloucester citizen . he covered the fred and rose west investigation before returning to liverpool in 1995 . during his first spell at the echo , he was investigations editor and spent time embedded with nato forces during the serbian withdrawal from kosovo . andrew also worked as a producer at liverpool 's channel one tv station .