'They must've been one hell of a golfer,' says commuter hit in face by ...
http://www.standard.co.uk/news/crime/they-mustve-been-one-hell-of-a-golfer-says-commuter-hit-in-face-by-400-yd-drive-8758721.html

' they must 've been one hell of a golfer , ' says commuter hit in face by 400-yd drive  a woman waiting for a tram was hit in the face by a golf ball after a freak 400-yard shot sent it over a driving range 's netting .  " whoever it was must have been a hell of a golfer , " said anne mulholland , 66 , who was sitting at the stop in croydon when the ball hit her .  she was left with a bruised chin and bleeding gums .  " it came from nowhere and i did n't see it . if i had seen it , i would have ducked . i am lucky it just hit my chin , " she said .  " if it had hit my eyes or brain , i could be dead now . we are so paranoid to stand at that tram stop now because of what happened . it could have been a child . "  the world of golf range backs on to the arena stop with her sister vera stork , 69 , who she lives with , and jill ebell , 62 , a cousin who was visiting from australia .  shortly after mrs mulholland was hit , three other balls flew over the netting , landing near the stop .  in reply to a letter of complaint from ms stork , world of golf chief executive grant wright said he was " shocked " and " extremely sorry " about the incident , which happened at midday on saturday july 27 , and pledged that there would be " a full investigation " .  he wrote : " in the last six years , since i have been chief executive , we have never had a ball strike a member of the public .  " during this period , that equates to more than 150 ? million balls hit at our centres . "  keri watkins , executive assistant at tramlink , wrote : " each year , over 500,000 people board and alight trams at arena tram stop and in the 13 years that the trams have been heard of a person being hit by a golf ball . "  she said the company had worked closely with the driving range to avoid injury and damage .  but ms stork called for world of golf and transport for london to put more safety measures in place .  she said : " will it take something worse than what happened to my sister to get something done about it ? "