A day in the life of ... an Admiral Nurse
http://www.theguardian.com/social-care-network/2013/sep/20/day-in-life-admiral-nurse-dementia

my day usually starts at 7am with an early morning run with my cocker spaniel , monty . i am a fair-weather runner but try to run three times a week , i prefer the early mornings . most of my work is sitting down so this is an energising start to the day .  once i have had breakfast , which is my favourite meal , i set off on the 35-minute drive to work . i am based at southlands assessment unit , a mental health unit for older adults within the kent and medway partnership trust . dementia uk is the charity behind the admiral nurse model , supporting us in our practice development and ensuring we all work consistently to the charity 's standards .  my day starts with a 9am appointment . mr jones is a younger carer who is supporting his wife ; she was diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease when she was 53 . it is an emotional appointment , working through feelings of loss and adjustment -- mr jones has experienced lots changes to their relationship . my electronic records and make a couple of phone calls . i get a call from the reception to let me know my next client miss white has arrived . it is a new referral so this will take up to two hours to assess and understand her needs . miss white is struggling to care for her mother who lives with her and has a diagnosis of lewy body dementia .  i think i have the best job in the world , but it can be emotionally exhausting . i receive both managerial and clinical supervision from my manager . i also receive specific admiral nurse group clinical supervision with an independent facilitator provided by the dementia uk as part of our practice development day . clinical supervision provides an opportunity to talk through themes and reflect on some of the more complex cases .  i have worked within the mental health trust for 26 years ; the last four of those years have been within my current role . during my career , i have been supported to study psychotherapy , mindfulness cbt , counselling and behavioural nurse registration has been hugely beneficial in my work .  admiral nurses are specialist mental health nurses who work clinically with families affected by dementia and particularly those with complex needs . we also provide consultancy in the form of teaching , education and raising the profile of dementia . i enjoy the mix of clinical and consultancy work , and although i am ambitious to progress within my career it is difficult to find a job that equals what i am doing now . i feel hugely privileged to have the opportunity to work with and be able to make a difference to the lives of the people i meet .  at 1.15pm , i leave the office to drive to the local university in medway . i am going to talk to a first-year cohort of nursing students prior to their older adult placement . i present the admiral nurse role and talk about dementia . it is a lively group of students with lots of questions and some apprehensions . it is important that we are involved in this work to talk through common myths held .  i finish at the university at 4pm ; my last appointment is with a lady whose husband has recently moved into residential care . she was his sole carer until his move and has struggled in making the decision . mrs smith developed some compulsive behaviour , and she has n't visited her husband since he left the marital home . she is tearful but she agrees to accompany me on a visit to see her husband .  this evening i am meeting friends for supper , so once home i walk monty . we have a few games of chase the stick before getting ready to go out . when i get home at around 10pm , i have a cup of tea and cuddle with monty before going to bed ... as i drift off to sleep , i think how lucky i am .  if you would like to feature in our series , or know someone who would , let us know by emailing us at **26;746;toolong