'I'm just about sick of you!' Fed up neighbours reveal recordings of ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2426530/Im-just-sick-Fed-neighbours-reveal-recordings-wife-hells-screaming-rants-husband.html

asbo breach : noisy julie griffiths outside her home where she shouted at her husband norman so much it has kept neighbours awake for years  the neighbours of a woman branded the wife-from-hell have revealed recordings of her screaming rants at her long-suffering husband .  julie griffiths , 43 , was hauled before magistrates last week for breaching her asbo by shouting , swearing and slamming doors as she repeatedly berated husband norman , 63 .  despite the constant disturbance to those living near griffiths ' home in talke , newcastle-under-lyme , staffordshire , she was given a 12-month conditional discharge and told to pay ? 85 in court costs .  her outraged neighbours have now revealed their disgust at the sentence and made public recordings of outbursts which have been making their lives a misery .  neighbours made the recordings after the local council installed noise nuisance monitoring equipment following numerous complaints .  griffiths can be heard in the tapes published by the sun screaming at her husband to leave their house , swearing at him and threatening to ' says .  in one recording at 8.57am on august 27 , she can be heard shouting : ' get out if you want a fag . go ! you 're not smoking in bed , i said get out if you want a fag ! get out if you want a fag ! get your shoes on and get out if you want a fag . now get out . '  griffiths then continues her rant , screeching : ' not gone yet , ca n't hear the door , get your shoes on and get out , otherwise you'l know about it . get out , do i have to say it again . '  in another she tell her husband : ' do n't worry norman , i 'm just about sick of you ! '  in other clips , she makes it clear she is aware that her neighbours are recording her , but continue to scream at her husband .  she says : ' stop ignoring me , you are . i am being recorded by them next door now thanks to . because of you i keep f*****g up . '  the 43-year-old received a five-year asbo in december last year for disturbing residents near her home in newcastle-under-lyme , staffordshire .  related articles  share this article  share  but she was hauled before the courts again last week because she was still going berserk at her husband . she claimed she had not understood the conditions of the asbo but pleaded guilty at north staffordshire justice centre to breaching the order between april 18 and august 27 this year .  despite previously being fined ? 750 and warned she faced up to five years in jail if she breached the order , griffiths escaped a prison sentence .  friends revealed the couple have been married for more than 20 years but griffiths ' nagging became an issue three years ago . she has been banned from numerous family events because of her tantrums .  noisy neighbour : griffiths berates her spouse at home ( centre ) so loudly that neighbours have been complaining since 1999