England netball captain Pamela Cookey's double life
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/netball/24145722

england v south africa fixtures  the sides will meet at bath university on sunday at 13:15 bst , at wembley arena , wednesday 25 september ( 19:45 ) and at university arena , worcester , two days later ( 19:45 )  a lack of funding in the sport means the players have no option but to support themselves financially .  it means that every minute of cookey 's day is pre-planned , as she balances the demands of being an international sportswoman with a hectic career .  " i 've become amazing at time-management , " she explains to bbc sport . " i segment my time so i know what i need to do and when i need to do it .  " it does get hard at times , this balancing act . but as long as i know i 've got my routine , then i can make it work . "  with cookey at the helm , england have enjoyed unprecedented success . as well as superb victories over the ever-dominant australians , they are unbeaten this rankings .  " it 's a different team . results have shown we are stronger and we 're a lot more cohesive . the new coaching staff has brought out the strength in all of us . i do n't think we had this strength in depth before , " cookey insists .  media playback is not supported on this device  ' belief in ourselves ' led to success - pamela cookey  " the 3-0 against australia was awesome and gave us so much confidence - it 's never been done before . the girls are looking really sharp , really vibrant . "  cookey has been involved in the england set-up for more than a decade now and made her senior debut nine years ago . as england have strengthened their footing on the world stage , the sport 's profile has also risen across the country , which puts them in a prime position to overcome sixth-in-the-world south africa in the forthcoming series .  " it 's changed dramatically . head coach anna mayes has made such a difference to the senior squad bring to the squad and how to make us better , " says cookey .  " england netball governing body are doing more too - in terms of back to netball and all the events to get more people into the sport . and the media has more interest in us . "  but cookey , who also plays for domestic league champions team bath , admits that while there has been an increase in participation figures and the sport has been given more funding , the players are still a while off becoming full-time professionals like the australians and new zealanders , who have long headed up the world rankings table .  a day in cookey 's busy life  05:50 - alarm clock goes off  06:30 - first england training session at bath university  08:00 - after training and a shower , heads to work  09:00 - working day at airbus in bristol begins  16:00 - ends work , drives back to training in bath  17:00 - second england training session  19:00 - training finishes  a typical day for full shift at work . her morning alarm sounds at 5.50am and she does n't put her head back onto her pillow until about 10pm . thoughts of clubbing rarely enter the 29-year-old 's head .  " there 's no chance of going out the night before - i can just about get up now ! " cookey laughs after her first training session of the day at bath university 's sports village . " sometimes it 's good because you get out of bed and you just have to get on with it . other times you 're half-asleep so do n't realise how hard you 're working .  " you have to put your all into it , otherwise you do n't get the full benefit . we have a good team ethos here and we pull each other along . there 'll be some days when you 're tired and you are struggling , so you 've just got to help each ... " cookey 's phone alarm interrupts her . it 's 7.36am and she should be showering and getting ready for work .  airbus 's bristol base . by 9am cookey is starting the second chunk of her day , running a team which audits buildings to ensure staff are in a clean and safe working environment .  " my colleagues are really supportive of my netball career . they say : ' we saw you on tv the other day , ' " says cookey , who joined the company five years ago after starting on their graduate scheme . " what i do is very demanding , so to know my colleagues support me makes it a little bit easier .  " all that i 've picked up from sport has transferred to my job : teamwork , leadership , determination to do well , " she adds as she runs her finger across the top of a picture frame to test for dust .  " i 've made lots of sacrifices . loads . especially with family and friends and spending time with them because i 'm running around the place from one thing to another . "  at 4pm cookey is meant to finish her day 's 20 minutes late . now it 's another rush-hour dash back to bath for her evening training session .  by 7pm she has finally finished - and she 's still smiling . " it is difficult sometimes to keep going throughout the day , and at lunch i did have a little ' woah ' , " she breathes out strongly to demonstrate her midday slump . " but then i had some food . i 'm still buzzing now . "  it 's clear that despite the sacrifice and the long days , cookey thoroughly enjoys her double life .  you can listen to live commentary of england 's first game against south africa on the bbc sport website from 13:15 bst on sunday .