The humanitarian headache of bringing home Syria's bodies
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/the-humanitarian-headache-of-bringing-home-syria-s-bodies-8830250.html

the humanitarian headache of bringing home syria 's bodies  female members of the ' mother aisha ' battalion -- an all female unit of the syrian rebels -- sit together in aleppo 's salaheddine district reuters  khaled erksoussi is planning to leave syria .  the damascus secretary general of the syrian red crescent -- 22 of whose volunteers have already been killed in the war -- was fired from his full time job with a damascus telecoms company this week , probably because he spends too much time on humanitarian work .  the red crescent ca n't match his old salary . besides , donor money is drying up , talented volunteers are already being poached abroad . and who wants to spend their time stuffing three-day old corpses into body-bags and negotiating with up to 12 different groups across the front lines ?  for this is also a gruesome story . reader beware .  " it looks like there is no money any more from the donor side , " he says . " all our partners are suffering . did you notice that when the chemical issue ( sic ) happened , in the un security council , the first decision was to go in and investigate -- but what about the medical side ? it shows what is important : finding the guilty -- the victim does n't matter . "  mr erksoussi is a difficult man to disabuse -- the un inspectors were not sent to point the finger at the guilty , but he has a good enough argument . pointing the finger gets more credit than understanding the tragedy through which mr erksoussi 's colleagues work .  take the body retrievals , most of them of soldiers killed by rebels -- dozens of them -- often brought home three at a time . " sometimes they the insurgents play tricks . not long ago , we went to collect the bodies of three soldiers . but the last body we were carrying , our people thought something was wrong . one of the bodies seemed to have wires attached to it . we left it in place . now we have demanded that all . both sides must take from the corpses what is on them , whatever it is , even ammunition . i do n't want to deal with a hand grenade in an ambulance ... "  most recently , the red crescent has been ferrying cooked food into the hell-hole of aleppo prison , a vast block held by government forces and guards but totally surrounded by rebels , in which hundreds of prisoners -- common criminals , detainees and insurgent enemies of the government -- are now held amid dirt and lack of sanitation and shellfire .  " we managed to get dozens of prisoners out who had officially finished their sentences and they just needed a safe passage out . but the first time we went there , one of the rebel groups fired a rocket-propelled grenade at one of our cars . they missed . everything was in place and cleared with all the groups , but this one said : ' we are upset because you did n't talk to us . ' we said , ' well , we 'll shout next time -- but one volunteer and killed a government judge ( who was ) with us .  " last time , we had a team in deir el-zour and they were detained by the al-nusra forces for seven hours . we were with an international red cross team and jabhat al-nusra hate what they call ' this damned red cross ' . we said , well , you 've been eating food with icrc red crosses on without caring very much . "  now the red crescent can supply even insurgent-held raqaa with supplies , but not the centre of aleppo city which has been besieged for a month .  days of negotiations between government and rebel forces precede most body extractions . " they usually come out within two to three days . the rebels usually know the names of the soldiers they 've killed . the deal is done between them on the front lines . they use us as mediators to cross the front lines and get corpses out . when they make the deal , we get in touch with both sides to make sure it 's . usually we put them in body bags . the bodies are sometimes left in the place where they were killed -- most of them shot -- but last time in deraya ( a suburb of damascus ) , they ( the rebels ) just pulled them from the place where they died to a house nearby where they gave them to us . "  the last two red crescent volunteers to be killed were in homs two months ago when a mortar shell fell outside the local red crescent office . the war came to them .  khaled erksoussi speaks with great care about some elements of the red crescent 's work . i can well see why . more than 15 volunteers remain imprisoned by the regime . the problem of what is lawful and unlawful in war has been a major problem . " the government still regards the finding of a make-shift hospital as a victory " -- since it has usually been set up to help wounded insurgents who can not go to a government hospital -- " but this contradicts the fact that  mr erksoussi believes that the fighting around damascus has become more ferocious but " you ca n't win with force -- this idea is on both sides now . what 's preventing both of them from stopping is ' ego ' . it 's not like they 're equal . when a government thinks it is fighting terrorists or ' evil ' , you still have to be responsible for civilians . but unless you close the tap -- weapons and money -- it will continue forever . i ca n't say this place is going to hell -- because it 's already there . "  weapons data is handed over to watchdog  syria has sent the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons an " initial declaration " outlining its weapons program , the organisation said friday .  spokesman michael luhan told the associated press that the declaration is " being reviewed by our verification division . " the organisation will not release details of what is in the declaration .  the opcw , which polices the treaty outlawing chemical weapons , is looking at arsenal of poison gas and nerve agents as well as its production facilities .  however , diplomatic efforts to speed up the process are moving slowly .  a meeting initially scheduled for sunday at which the opcw 's 41-nation executive council was due to discuss a us-russian plan to swiftly rid syria of chemical weapons was postponed yesterday . no new date was immediately set and no reason was given for the postponement . ap