Michael Owen's dream of Melbourne Cup glory is very much alive
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/horseracing/10334779/Michael-Owens-dream-of-Melbourne-Cup-glory-is-very-much-alive.html

michael owen 's dream of melbourne cup glory is very much alive  michael owen 's dream of having a runner in the emirates melbourne cup in on nov 5 is very much alive despite his gritty stayer brown panther finishing only fifth in wednesday 's greene king foundation stakes over an inadequate mile-and-a-quarter trip at goodwood .  and so serious is the ex-football star at getting involved in australia 's showcase race , he is sending brown panther 's jockey richard kingscote to the important turnbull stakes meeting at flemington , on oct 5 , in an attempt to get first-hand experience of the track .  trainer tom dascombe said : " i 'm happy enough with that run . you ca n't really complain when you run in a race you never planned for in the first place . he 'd had a setback before the irish st leger and we had to run here to make sure he was all right . "  brown panther is around 20-1 for the melbourne cup , but as far as dascombe is concerned , " his setback was nothing serious , but it was enough to knock us off stride .  " he ran a temperature and was off his grub for 24 hours . he missed a couple of days and you ca n't go for a big race in those circumstances . but , he 's done well enough with this final run before going into quarantine .  " richard has probably gone a bit too quick out in front , and we were trying to give 5lb to the winner , so all things considered , i was happy . he 'll go into quarantine here for two weeks and then fly down to melbourne , all going well . "  as for kingscote going on an early reconnaissance mission to australia , dascombe said : " it would be very useful if richard could get rides at flemington in early october . it is hard enough turning up to ride in the biggest race of your career without any previous experience of the track .  " one of our owners has contacts in melbourne , so we as well . richard knows the horse , he now has to learn what he can about the course , " he added .  brown panther first emerged as a likely prospect for melbourne when winning the goodwood cup in august in which the homebred gave owen his biggest success as an owner . he bred the five-year-old out of his mare treble heights , a group winner trained for him by john gosden .  the winner grandeur is a smart performer in his own right and was getting his season back on track with this convincing success under ryan moore .  he put a disappointing effort in the arlington million last time behind him with this victory and trainer jeremy noseda has some ambitious targets for the autumn , including the breeders ' cup at santa anita in early november .  " i was very worried about the ground today but i wanted to get another run into him before he goes off to america again , " said noseda .  " he has a few options out there and i will have to speak anita , but there are horses like the fugue going there so we 'll have to see . it will depend if we decide to be brave . "  the mark johnston-trained double bluff looks to have a bright future after running out a convincing winner of the nine furlong two-year-old maiden .