Sherlock: The adventure of the expanding fandom
http://metro.co.uk/2013/09/25/sherlock-the-adventure-of-the-expanding-fandom-4104436/

sherlock : the adventure of the expanding fandom  the wait is on ! ( picture : pbs-hartswood films for the bbc , colin hutton )  sherlock was a show that originally slipped quietly under everybody 's radar whilst being made . it 's probable the cast and crew look fondly back on the pilot episode ( 2009 ) and the entire first series that followed in 2010 -- for the simple reason that they were created in relative anonymity , free of any pressure or expectations .  while both benedict cumberbatch and martin freeman already had loyal fan bases after the first airing of sherlock ( in late july 2010 ) , it 's fair to say that they both suddenly became far more visible in the public 's eye .  by the time production rolled around on series two , the first series had been sold to many overseas territories and the international fan base of the show had truly been established . sherlockology came into existence a week before series two began filming ( in may 2011 ) and enthusiastically followed as to visit the location of ' faker street ' ( aka north gower street ) in north london while filming was underway .  by that point it was clear to the production team that they 'd created something special , attracting a lot of attention from a dedicated group of onlookers from the pavement opposite . yet even then the crowds were manageable and we were stood with almost nobody around us ( at times ) and were struck by the oddity of seeing an actor disappear and a character you 've seen on television appear before your very eyes .  sherlock has evolved into a show laden with massive expectation .  cut to april 2013 , nearly two years later , and fans are lined six-deep on the pavement . orange safety barriers pin them in away from the moving traffic in the road , while the crew stop to take pictures of the assembled crowd . sherlock 's producer , sue vertue , also requested that fans not post photos that may reveal major spoilers online via a message on our website .  we technically in another street ) , stood on a step looking diagonally at the front door that is dressed as that of 221b . a black jag with tinted windows rolls around the corner and pauses outside the door . out steps benedict cumberbatch in full costume as sherlock holmes . cue the thunderous , titanic screams . with a visible smile on his face , he waves to the mass of fans that have come to see him transform into the great detective .  it 's fair to say that in these last three years everything has changed . not just for benedict or martin ( who has of course not just gone from ' tim from the office ' to john watson but also bilbo baggins ) , but the entire process of producing the series itself has changed . sherlock has evolved into a show laden with massive expectation .  with that ingenious series two cliffhanger festering in the minds of the now gigantic worldwide fan base ( it 's been almost two years ) , the best thing is that it 's very nearly back ?  metro blogs is a place for opinions . these opinions belong to the author and are not necessarily shared by metro .