Foster &amp; Allen on their new autobiography and five decades of ...
http://irishpost.co.uk/foster-and-allen-on-their-new-autobiography-and-five-decades-of-success/

foster &amp; allen on their new autobiography and five decades of success  when tony allen left technical school in his home town of moate , county westmeath in 1967 , he could not possibly have envisaged the incredible music career that was to follow .  his story of success is the subject of a new autobiography with his cohort mick foster , entitled after all these years : our story . tony first met mick foster when they both played in the same local band , the nightrunners , and were both in and out of the irish midlands ' trad scene .  so how did they eventually get from playing in local bands to performing on tv and the world 's concert stages -- selling millions of records along the way ? and how did he and mick end up working as a duo in 1975 ?  tony takes up the story : " we had done some gigs in london with the band and paddy callaghan had taken over the prince of wales pub in kilburn , " he says . there so the rest of the band went home and we stayed on " .  " that was really the start of the duo . mick had been on to me to leave the band the nightrunners . he had seen the alexander brothers from scotland when they came over to ireland and he thought there should be an irish version .  " he eventually persuaded me to leave the band and go on the road -- just the two of us . i was playing organ and keyboards at the time and mick was on the accordion so we went down the road as foster &amp; allen doing the local pubs and traveling all over the country playing pubs and gaa halls .  " at that stage the ballad scene had developed into a sort of cabaret scene . a lot of the bands had broken up and formed smaller groups and the cabaret scene was going great . in 1978 we signed a record deal with donie cassidy . we had just released the blacksmith and then bunch of thyme which went to number one in to london with mick clerkin and it went into the british record charts . we got on top of the pops and that really started the whole thing going outside ireland . it then went from strength to strength and we are still kicking around at it " .  in such a long career there must have been many highlights ? " i think for us it would have to be our appearance on top of the pops in 1982 , " says tony .  " that changed the whole thing for us . if you think about it , we went from playing the likes of the prince of wales in kilburn or the irish club in birmingham , to doing a concert tour of england -- the big theatres . our records were being played on all the regional stations . that was a big change " .  " then in 1983 maggie came out and mick mcdonagh , the man who put the green velvet albums together , sent the song to ken harding in australia . ken released it as a single and it five weeks so that established us over there " .  tony was anxious to acknowledge the importance of the green velvet compilation albums that did so well in the british charts .  " because they were backed by a tv advertising campaign they brought irish folk music into the mainstream . apart from foster &amp; allen tracks they featured de dannan with mary black , the fureys , irish mist and brendan grace , who was huge at the time .  " it meant people who might not have been too familiar with irish folk music were now being exposed to it at peak viewing times and they latched on to it . "  the importance of national tv advertising can not be overstated in the success of foster &amp; allen .  in relation to the way that daytime television has changed tony said : " in the old days you could do something like pebble mill at one and the whole country would see it . you could be on all day now and hardly anyone would see it because there are so many stations " we have the book out now which tells our own individual stories and the story of the band . a new single is also due out shortly plus of course the uk tour coming up . it 's good to be still at it after all these years , which by coincidence just happens to be the title of the book " .  foster &amp; allen begin their british tour at the end in tunbridge wells on october 29 and tour throughout november .