Labour admits welfare cap a hard sell after leak of briefing
http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2013/oct/09/labour-admits-welfare-cap-hard-sell

labour has acknowledged that it still has its work cut out to win the argument on welfare , after a party pollster said it faced a " very severe " challenge to overcome a tory lead on benefit cuts .  a spokesman agreed that the party would have to work hard to sell to voters its plans for a social security cap , after the leak of a recording of a briefing by james morris , from greenberg quinlan rosner research . reflecting a belief that the tories are scoring better with the public on the welfare issue , morris is quoted as saying : " the challenge is very severe ... if you look at politically salient target groups those numbers get worse . "  morris told a meeting at the trades union congress last friday that a poll of 3,000 voters had found that 53% of those questioned supported changes to the benefits system . just over a quarter ( 27% ) opposed the changes .  the poll also found that the only groups of voters who opposed the government 's changes party was not well placed to win over floating voters on the issues . opponents included labour voters and people who identified with the party , as well as guardian and mirror readers .  morris told the meeting at the tuc , which commissioned the poll , that support for the government 's reforms increased among voters that would be targeted by the tories and liberal democrats . more than three quarters ( 77% ) of conservative/lib dem voters supported the reforms . nearly two thirds ( 64% ) of labour/conservative swing voters supported the government .  priti patel , the tory mp for witham , said : " labour 's rocketing welfare bill is what got us into this mess in the first place . ed miliband is the same old labour ; he has opposed every one of the ? 83bn of welfare savings so far , and he still wants unlimited benefit handouts . it 's taxpayers who would pay the price for this , through higher taxes and higher bills . "  a labour spokesman said : " we always have more to do people recognise our spending cap on social security spending will tackle the underlying causes of rising social security bills . "  the party announced in the summer that it would cap the structural elements of social spending , on areas such as long-term worklessness and on housing costs . the cap is designed to target the long-term pressures on welfare spending .  however , the polling for the tuc did produce some encouraging figures for labour in other areas . it found that 77% of those questioned said poor children should always be supported , regardless of the behaviour of their parents .  the polling was carried out just before the labour conference , at which miliband unveiled his new slogan : britain can do better than this . the new statesman quotes the former labour leader lord kinnock as saying that miliband said he had inspired the slogan .