Tommy Robinson has left the EDL. But this is a change of key, not a ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/tommy-robinson-has-left-the-edl-but-this-is-a-change-of-key-not-a-change-of-message-8869350.html

Tommy Robinson has left the EDL . But this is a change of key , not a change of message  Tommy Robinson feels he can no longer keep extremists in the party at bay Getty Images  The announcement yesterday morning that Tommy Robinson and Kev Carroll , co-founders of the English Defence League , were to leave the group took many by surprise . By removing himself from the far-right movement , Tommy Robinson is changing his tactics , but -- as I learned at the press conference last night -- there 's little to suggest he will be denouncing Islamophobic views anytime soon .  Only this year , Tommy was filmed at an EDL organised street demonstration shouting how ' Islam is not a religion of peace , it is fascist and violent ' , and last night Tommy refused to take back comments made in the past concerning his views on Islam .  He seemed wholly uncomfortable when faced with questions regarding his views on Halal cuisine , and would not retract past comments that mosque-building in the UK should be , Tommy still asserted he stands by past comments made about " links between Islam and paedophilia . " However , last night the Quilliam foundation , who broke the news of Robinson 's retreat from the EDL , were keen to reiterate that " Tommy and Kev do not hate Muslims . " The two journalists next to me both commented at this point " something here is n't right " .  When asked if this was the easy way out for him , Tommy said that he " only got 45 minutes sleep last night " . He 'd " neglected his wife and family " , he said , and told us he was " dreading going home " . At one point I came close to feeling sorry for the bloke who has had such a ' difficult ' time of it , but then I remembered he 's Tommy Robinson from the EDL . It needs to be made clear , these men last night made no attempt to denounce actions of the EDL in the past , nor the principles the EDL stands for Nawaz , co-founder and chairman of Quilliam , an anit-extremism group , had only started speaking to the ex-EDL frontmen over the " last couple of days . " It certainly was made no clearer at the press conference last night as to what the EDL leadership had done to prove they were n't actually racist - but Nawaz pointed out that he and his colleague were Muslim , and therefore how could Tommy be racist ?  In essence , I was left wondering what on earth was going on . For Tommy and Kev it 's clear they have a lot to gain from moving away from the EDL , a failing organisation described by the men as " out of control " . This way they can be seen as more moderate , a voice of reason from the right .  Moreover , with groups such as UKIP finding such electoral success in the UK , is it any wonder that Tommy and his cronies are looking for ' a more democratic ' way of pursuing their racist agenda ?  However , for Quilliam , this Nawaz was clear last night that the ex-EDL leaders were to receive " training and education " through his foundation to " educate them on Islam " . However , there was no plan presented of how this would take place , or what Quilliam envisaged doing with their latest recruits . Speaking to an international relations scholar last night at the University of Oxford , who has spent time working with Muslim community groups in the north , I was told that " nobody in the Muslim community takes Quilliam seriously . "  Last night Tommy asserted ' there are problems and we need to solve them . We must confront the problem but marching and chanting is offending moderates ' . Clearly , he and Carroll are trying a change of tactic , but their dangerous views have not suddenly been enlightened . " We are singing from the same song-sheet , just the same sheet as Quilliam against Islamism " Carroll told the audience . Forget Quilliam , the song-sheet Carroll and Robinson hold is full of bile , and a change of key wo n't change @ @ @