The Cost of a Glass of Milk
http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/philip-lymbery/farm-animal-welfare_b_4145007.html

the cost of a glass of milk  the sight of a dairy herd grazing upon a grassy field is a ubiquitous one in britain and europe , appearing on the labels of dairy products that we consume , as well as in the countryside itself . yet it represents only a part of the european dairy industry .  what of the cows that we do not see ? those with little or no access to those fields , those who are tethered and those who are pushed to their limits by excessive milk production ? this may not be a familiar image to many of us , but it is the stark reality for a shockingly high proportion of dairy cows across europe .  last summer my charity , compassion in world farming , carried out a series of undercover investigations at over 50 farms in germany , denmark and spain , to find out what conditions were like for dairy cows in the eu . we were appalled by what we found .  many cows were living in zero-graze conditions , without , lie down , and move a few steps in any direction . in germany , 11 of the 14 farms we visited kept their cows tethered with chains in ' tie-stalls ' , some of them for the whole year . living spaces were often barren and without straw , leading to painful sores and swollen joints from the hard floor , and some cows were found sitting in their own faeces . these cows were frequently forced to their limits to produce high yields of milk , becoming bony with exhaustion , and slaughtered , often at a young age , when their yield began to diminish . it makes for harrowing reading , i know . it 's even harder to see .  this research comes from just three countries , but is , we suspect , a good representation of dairy farming across europe . it is estimated that over one third of dairy cows in the eu are ' zero-grazed ' and that a further one fifth are tethered in tie-stalls for at least part of the year . even in the uk , it life indoors .  it seems ludicrous that such injustices should be legal , but the problem is , dairy cows are not specifically protected by eu law . unlike other farm animals , such as poultry and pigs , there is no eu legislation which refers to dairy cow welfare specifically .  last october , compassion joined with the world society for the protection of animals ( wspa ) and ice cream maker ben and jerry 's in forming the supporting better dairy coalition . the aim of our campaign is to urge the european commission to bring in a species-specific directive in order to ensure a set of minimum welfare standards for dairy cows across europe . today ( 23 october ) we will present the signatures of more than 250,000 eu citizens who agree to a representative of the european commission .  we believe that every cow should have access to pasture during the grass-growing season , and be liberated from cruel practices such as tethering that we encountered in our investigations . cows should be fed in a way that meets their dietary needs , be measures put in place to prevent their pain and suffering .  cows are intelligent , sentient beings that deserve our respect and better protection . it is my hope that this meeting will be a significant step towards the much needed action for ensuring dairy cow welfare .