University of Reading campus makes Green Flag People's Choice ...
http://www.getreading.co.uk/lifestyle/home-garden/university-reading-campus-makes-green-6230119

university of reading campus makes green flag people 's choice top ten  whiteknights was ranked number six out of more than 1,400 green spaces entered into the green flag people 's choice award and is the only university campus in the top 10  shares  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  the harris garden has an orchard , woodland area , wildflower meadow and a circle of 20 cherry trees  the university of reading 's whiteknights campus has been voted among the best and most popular green spaces in the uk .  whiteknights was ranked number six out of more than 1,400 green spaces entered into the green flag people 's choice award and is the only university campus in the top 10 .  all green flag award-winning parks and green spaces were entered into the annual poll , and the public were asked to vote for their favourite .  the university received its third green flag award earlier this year in recognition of its well-maintained and well-managed campus is the botanic harris garden , which has an orchard , woodland area , wildflower meadow , fruit trees and a circle of 20 beautiful japanese cherry blossom , covering approximately five hectares .  it was established in the 1970s , extended over the years as a teaching and research resource , and is now open to the public .  the award also recognises the university 's green waste recycling and composting initiatives , which helped reduce its waste by more than 100 tonnes in 2012/13 alongside other ways to reduce its carbon footprint , including car sharing and green travel .  the green flag award scheme is the benchmark standard for parks and green spaces in the uk and is run by keep britain tidy .  pro-vice-chancellor professor gavin brooks said : " we are delighted to have gained a green flag award for the third year running and to have been voted so highly by the public . our attractive grounds continue to be a factor which differentiates reading from our competitors , as they provide an exceptional environment in which to live , @ @ @ @ @