Mum's fight over dog mess on pavements
http://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/news/greater-manchester-news/mary-patel-scours-pavements-of-gorse-1282092

mum 's fight over dog mess on pavements  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  mary patel  a frustrated mum is on a one-woman mission to stop dogs littering the streets -- by spray-painting their mess .  mary patel , 33 , has been scouring the pavements of gorse hill in stretford to highlight the problem by spraying dog muck with biodegradable yellow paint .  mary believes the problem is out of control on the streets and in parks , and is determined to do something about it .  the mum-of-one said : " i 've lived in gorse hill for seven years and i really like the area . lots of kids play out in the street but they 're having to play among the dog poo . i have a 10-month-old baby , elsie , and in the future i want her to be able to go to the park and walk along the street without swerving the mess . "  mary came up with the idea up , then spent weeks searching for biodegradable paint .  so far she has painted 30 piles of waste and intends to keep up her canine campaign .  she added : " i want other people to see it where it is so we can try to say to dog owners , ' we do notice , people are frustrated by it ' . "  peter molyneux , from trafford council , said : ? " the council is aware of specific problems in the gorse hill area and have patrols out targeting the area in an effort to crack down on the perpetrators of this anti-social behaviour . "  our newspapers include the flagship manchester evening news - britain 's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across greater manchester , cheshire and lancashire .  free morning newspaper , the metro , published every weekday , is also part of our portfolio , delivering more than 200,000 readers in greater manchester .  greater manchester business week is the region 's number one provider of 12,687 copies every thursday .  every month , m.e.n . media 's print products reach 2.2 million adults , spanning from accrington in the north to macclesfield in the south .