IPPC to investigate case of autistic teenager arrested by Merseyside ...
http://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/liverpool-news/ippc-investigate-case-autistic-teenager-3326164

ippc to investigate case of autistic teenager arrested by merseyside police officers who assumed she was drunk  merseyside police will be investigated after officers mistakenly arrested an autistic teenage girl for being drunk .  shares  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  ippc to investigate case of autistic teenager arrested by merseyside police officers who assumed she was drunk  merseyside police will be investigated after officers mistakenly arrested an autistic teenage girl for being drunk .  melissa jones , 17 , was charged with being drunk and disorderly despite suffering with communication problems as part of her condition .  merseyside police has referred the matter to the independent police complaints commission ( ipcc ) .  the force said it would also look into the handing of the case .  a spokesman said it would be reviewing the case to see " if there are any lessons to be learned " .  college student melissa , who was 16 at the time , spent the night in dna taken after she intervened in a brawl in which she ended up being assaulted .  police issued melissa with a fixed penalty notice , but she appealed against it and appeared before court in november last year , where she was formally charged with being drunk and disorderly .  a trial was due to be held next month , but melissa was told last week that the cps were dropping the case due to " insufficient evidence " .  her mum , christine evans , 49 , told the echo : " she should never have been arrested in the first place , let alone charged with drunk and disorderly .  " she was upset after being beaten up , so when the police arrested her she became hysterical because she knew she had n't done anything wrong . "  melissa had been to a shop with friends , near her home in wavertree , shortly before midnight on june 16 last year , to buy soft drinks .  a drunken woman entered the shop , in smithdown road , and became aggressive when her friends were attacked when they tried to intervene . both girls were stamped on and suffered severe bruising .  christine said : " this woman had been kicking another girl in the head . melissa thought she was going to kill her , so she jumped in and the woman turned on her .  " i ran to the shop and told the police melissa had n't touched a drop -- she 's a good girl , but her autism means she ca n't communicate the way we do . "  christine said melissa 's ordeal with the police and going to court had affected her daughter so badly she has needed counselling ever since .  she added : " melissa has been through hell for the last six months , she 's even tried to kill herself over this . "  a merseyside police spokesman said : " a 16- year-old girl was arrested on suspicion of being drunk and disorderly following a disturbance in a shop . she was taken to a police station , examined by a doctor , and interviewed when and released .  " the crown prosecution service later made a decision not to continue with the case . "  send a story  advertising department  trinity mirror merseyside , the echo 's parent company , is one of the north west 's largest multimedia providers reaching more than 900,000 adults every month .  the liverpool echo , trinity mirror merseyside 's flagship brand , is the area 's best-read newspaper including national newspapers .  the liverpool echo reaches 1 in 3 people in the area with a daily readership of more than 256,000* people.the liverpool echo website reaches 1.5 million unique users each month who look at around 8.5 million pages** .  the editor  alastair machray  alastair machray was appointed editor of the liverpool echo in 2005 and is also editor-in-chief of trinity mirror merseyside , cheshire and north wales . he is a former editor of the daily post ( wales and england ) and editor-in-chief of the company 's welsh operations . married dad-of-two and keen golfer alastair is one of the longest-serving newspaper editors in the country . his .