Hot Toys' New Rogue One Figures Are All About The Empire
http://www.gizmodo.com.au/2016/09/hot-toys-newrogue-onefigures-are-all-about-the-empire/

Hot Toys ' New Rogue One Figures Are All About The Empire  When you need a bunch of fancy action figures to be out as soon as possible to coincide with the launch of a new movie , it 's good to be bad -- especially if you 're the faceless entities of an evil empire . Which means if you want some Rogue One Hot Toys , then what you 're getting for the foreseeable future is all things Imperial . Now that it 's September 30 , the company has revealed a few more more " new " Rogue One figures to celebrate the arrival of the movie 's merch on toy shelves . I say " new " because really , the only new figure joining the Death Trooper is the Shore Trooper -- Darth Vader and the " Jedha Patrol " Stormtrooper are just minor tweaks to existing toys .  But still , they look nice . Vader is a bit different to the A New Hope-specific toy Hot Toys released a while ago , with updated armour details that make Sith-era Vader than the one of the original trilogy . The new Stormtrooper is essentially the old one , dirtied up and given a backpack .  The new Shore Trooper though , is actually new . The mix of armour and cloth material looks great , and it 's nice to see some Imperial troopers who are n't just clad in various shades of white or black .  Unlike most Hot Toys , the figure does n't come with much -- just a stand , some alternate hands and the trooper 's new double-barrelled gun -- but it 's a swanky addition to the sixth-scale Imperial army , indeed .  None of the new figures are quite up for pre-order in the West just yet , but Vader , the Jedha Patrol Stormtrooper and the Shoretrooper are all due for release early next year .  Trending Stories Right Now  A series of quakes under the Salton Sea may be a signal that the San Andreas Fault is on the verge of buckling . For the next few days , the risk of a major earthquake along Which , holy crap .  What We Do in the Shadows is the only vampire mock-doc the world will ever need , because it is hilarious , raunchy and perfectly self-aware . The werewolf-themed sequel ( genius title . We 're Wolves ) is percolating , and now the rumoured TV spin-off is confirmed . But do n't get too excited about the latter just yet .