Beer Market: Rising disposable income, ever-increasing population ...
http://www.newsmaker.com.au/news/152321/beer-market-rising-disposable-income-everincreasing-population-increasing-in-the-number-of-bars-and-restaurants-and-others-are-the-key-factors-2020

beer market : rising disposable income , ever-increasing population , increasing in the number of bars and restaurants and others are the key factors , 2020  monday , november 7th , 2016 - persistence market research pvt . ltd .  beer is one of the alcoholic beverages containing 4% to 6% alcohol by volume . the main ingredients of beer include water , a starch source ( such as malted barley , helps in saccharification and fermentation ) , a brewer 's yeast and flavors such as hops . flavoring such as hops helps in adding bitterness and act as a natural preservative . beer is the most widely consumed alcoholic beverage in the asia pacific region . growing drinking population in the countries such as india and china is boosting the market for beer in the asia-pacific region . by types , beer market can be segmented into premium , mainstream and economy .  countries such as china have the largest consumption of beer in the asia pacific region , followed by japan . increasing population and more inclined towards western culture are the asia pacific region . countries such as india , singapore and south korea are the fastest growing market for beer in the asia-pacific region .  rising disposable income , ever-increasing population , increasing in the number of bars and restaurants , increase in the acceptance of western culture and relaxation in the rules and regulation related to the operation of beer industry are some of the major driving force for beer market . increasing disposable income among the working class population allows the customer to go out more to restaurants and bars and spend more on beer . in addition , consumers are now willing to pay more for premium segments also . according to the national bureau of statistics china , annual per capita disposable income of urban households in china increased from usd 2,271.0 in 2008 to usd 3408.5 in 2012 . the overall annual disposable income in india medium household income increased from usd 1,366.2 billion in 2010 to usd 1,587.6 billion in 2013 . quick adoption of western culture has largely influenced the drinking habits in the asia pacific region . people living in the meals , at parties and even during meetings . rising anti-alcohol campaigns and rising aging population are some of the major restraints for beer market .  the report provides the market size and forecast for the different segments and geographies for the period of 2010 to 2020  the report provides company profiles of some of the leading companies operating in the market  the report also provides porters five forces analysis of the market .  file library  contact profile  persistence market research pvt . ltd .  persistence market research ( pmr ) is an innovative provider of market research reports and consulting services . the three pmr pillars of strength that have helped us win clients for years are : quality research , quick research , and in-depth research .  pmr 's team of seasoned analysts and consultants are experts in their domain . at pmr , we process complex , exhaustive primary and secondary research data into valuable insight . we understand that each client has a unique problem statement , and address it with our strengths .