Zayn malik claims One Direction boys refuse to speak to him
http://www.news.com.au/entertainment/music/zayn-malik-claims-one-direction-boys-refuse-to-speak-to-him/news-story/bcc6461224e0a520c60920a58d8ebd49

12:22 PMSoraiya Fuda I HAD N'T seen a smile this big since Santa visited on Christmas Day . Hi-5 got the new year off to a musical start with Summer Songfest to Fairmont Resort Blue Mountains last Monday .  Zayn malik claims One Direction boys refuse to speak to him  ZAYN Malik has hit out at his former One Direction band mates , saying they refused to speak to him when he left the band .  The singer , 22 , spectacularly quit the multi-million selling group in March 2015 and he hinted certain members have cut all contact with him following the shock departure .  Despite claiming he had " four friends for life " in Harry Styles , Louis Tomlinson , Niall Horan and Liam Payne when he quit the group , he 's now confessed : " The truth of it is you can think one thing about a situation and the total opposite can happen .  " I had every intention of remaining friends with everybody , but I guess certain phone numbers have changed and I have " I 've reached out to a few of them and not got a reply . Certain people have pride issues , but it 's stuff you overcome in time . "  The ex-boybander went on to insist the schedule " was like a f**king machine going constantly " and he was silenced by the people looking after the group .  He said : " We were n't allowed to say certain things , or word lyrics the way we would want to .  " I 'd sit and wonder , ' If the fans knew how it worked , what would they think ? '  " My argument was : People are more intelligent than that . They want to hear what 's real , so why do n't we write some stuff that we 're actually going through ? "  And Bradford-born Zayn claims he decided against picking up a copy of 1D 's recent album Made In The A.M. -- their first record without him -- after being unimpressed by their second single Perfect .  In an article in the latest issue they write : " Malik admits he has n't even heard it . ' Nah , ' he says . ' I 'll be honest . I thought the first single was quite cool . I heard the second single and ' -- he screws up his face -- ' yeah , I did n't buy the album . ' "  New friends : Zayn Malik with Kanye West and Joe Jonas.Source:Supplied  However , he insists there 's no longer any rivalry between him and his former band mates and there wo n't be any competition if any of the band members -- who are currently on a hiatus -- release solo records at the same time as his .  He added : " There are no sides to pick . We 're not going head-to-head . "  The solo star will release his debut album in the spring , featuring tracks such as Befour and She , which he worked on in the middle of a forest with Frank Ocean 's producer Malay .  But recently he 's been hitting the headlines for his love romance with model Gigi Hadid .  Despite having not confirmed whether they are dating following his shock split from his Little Mix fiancee Perrie Edwards last summer , he revealed he woos potential partners with his culinary skills .  Zayn Malik with rumoured girlfriend Gigi Hadid.Source:Supplied  Zayn 's ex , Perrie Edwards.Source:Supplied  He explained : " I have about six of her signature dishes down , and I 'll pull them out for the ladies when I need to . "  And speaking about women , he admitted he goes for ladies who are " a bit chunky " and with whom he can talk about politics .  He tells Billboard : " I need a challenge . Also , I like girls that are a bit chunky in certain areas -- the nice areas . I like a fuller woman .  " I enjoy an intellectual conversation as well , where someone can construct a sentence beyond what hair and makeup they 're wearing , and talk about something political or about the world . I like an opinion . "