Cars of 2016
http://www.drive.com.au/motor-news/cars-of-2016-20160105-gm03cw.html

David McCowen  Replay  Hits and misses of 2015  We look back on the best and worst cars we put to the test this year .  Alfa Romeo is set to welcome a facelifted version of its Giulietta hatch in the third quarter of the year . While it may go on sale in Europe at the end of the year , the brand 's hotly awaited Giulia QV sedan is n't likely to go on sale locally until 2017 .  The new Ford Mustang is one of the most hotly anticipated cars of 2016 . Photo : Supplied  Aston Martin will introduce its new DB11 sports car toward the end of the year , blending new looks and Mercedes-AMG power to secure the future of the brand . The car is likely to draw inspiration from the Aston Martin DB10 driven by Daniel Craig as James Bond in Spectre .  Audi is set for a big year , starting with the local debut of the A4 sedan in February , followed by an A4 Avant ( wagon ) in April brand will bring its latest R8 supercar to Australia in the second quarter , accompanied by updated RS6 and RS7 performance cars that feature more power than before . SUV customers will be treated to a new SQ5 Plus wagon with 700Nm of torque in the second quarter , as well as a plug-in hybrid version of the brand 's Q7 SUV in quarter three . The German brand will also introduce a high-performance " plus " version of its S8 limousine in the second quarter .  Advertisement  Bentley 's year is all about the new Bentayga SUV , which arrives late in 2016 . The plush SUV will offer opulent luxury and 447kW of power .  BMW is set to turn up its green credentials with plug-in hybrid versions of its popular 3-Series sedan and X5 SUV . The new BMW 330e will arrive in May , joined at the same time by the X5 xDrive40e , and later by an updates its i3 electric hatch with more battery range . The marque 's 7-Series will arrive in flagship 750i form in March , while other models coupe , which will receive tweaks in the second half of the year , along with minor updates for the 4-Series Coupe and 3-Series Gran Turismo . The brand will look after performance car fans with the new M2 coupe , available from $89,900 in April , as well as the 368kW M4 GTS coupe that arrives mid-year .  Chrysler and Dodge do not plan to introduce new cars into Australia this year .  Citroen will bring its new C4 Cactus to local customers in March , pricing the lightweight and quirky crossover from $26,990 plus on-road costs in basic petrol form . The French marque may also introduce a facelifted version of its premium DS4 hatch later in the year .  Ferrari 's year is geared around the new 488 GTB and 488 Spider , which replace the brand 's 458 Italia early in the year . Substituting that car 's free-revving 4.5-litre V8 for a smaller , turbocharged motor , the new car offers 492kW of power thatr makes it a scintillating performer . The brand 's V8 duo are likely to be followed later in V12-powered gran turismo in the new Ferrari F12 Tour de France .  Fiat will introduce a facelifted 500 hatch and convertible early in the new year , accompanied by fresh Abarth versions that offer turbocharged performance and pumped-up style , and a new entry-level model with a sharper price . The brand will follow that up with its first convertible in years , the Mazda MX-5-based 124 Spider that is set to arrive in the third quarter .  Ford 's high-performance year kicks off with the highly anticipated return of its iconic Mustang in January . The American muscle car is available in turbocharged or V8 trim as a coupe or convertible , but new buyers should be prepared to wait as thousands of customers have already ordered cars . Ford will be farewell to the locally-built Falcon with limited-edition Sprint models based on the XR6 Turbo and XR8 sports sedans in the first quarter , lending more power to the blue oval 's last Australian performance cars . Having satisfied the muscle car crowd , Ford will cater to turbocharged fans with the new Focus RS in June on-road costs . Ford will also introduce an updated Kuga SUV in the fourth quarter , bringing new exterior styling and a refreshed interior .  Haval will introduce the new H6 SUV in the second quarter of the year , having already introduced its H2 , H8 and H9 trio in late 2015 . The mid-sized H6 will serve as a discount rival to established SUVs such as the Mazda CX-5 and Hyundai Tucson .  Holden fans will have to wait until the end of the year to check out the new Astra , which should bring a touch of class to the brand 's compact car lineup . The Astra will be joined at the end of the year by a facelifted Holden Trax that should bring new styling and tech . Before then , Holden will introduce an updated Captiva with a choice of five or seven seats , along with a replacement for the existing Barina Spark hatch . Holden Special Vehicles is rumoured to be readying a final GTS-R version of the homegrown V8 Commodore .  Honda is set for a significant year , nameplates . A new Honda Civic arrives mid-year , giving the brand a fresh rival to popular small cars . Honda 's iconic NSX will make its return later in the year , taking on blue-chip sports cars such as the Audi R8 and Porsche 911 .  Hyundai will offer a new Elantra sedan from March , serving as a rival to the Toyota Corolla sedan . In the third quarter it will add the Elantra SR , which will pack the same 1.6-litre 150kW turbocharged engine and six-speed dual-clutch transmission as the Veloster SR . The brand will also offer its first Australian hybrid in the third quarter . Dubbed Ioniq , the car will be a stand-alone model to rival Toyota 's Prius .  Infiniti is set to bring new metal to market in the form of its new Q30 hatchback and QX30 spinoff . Borrowing hardware from the Mercedes-Benz A-Class , the compact duo could give the brand a much-needed lift in sales from the third quarter of the year . Infiniti will also introduce updated Q50 and Q70 sedans in the second half of the the end of the year .  Jaguar is set for a significant year anchored by the arrival of its first SUV , the F-Pace . The highly anticipated crossover will arrive in the late July or early August , on the heels of a all-new XF sedan in February and updated XJ limousine in March . There will also be the limited run F-Type British Design Edition in July .  Jeep is set for a quieter year in 2016 , having already introduced its new Renegade baby SUV . The brand will release a number of special edition models to keep things fresh . The second quarter will see a run of 75th Anniversary limited editions and the Grand Cherokee Special Edition will lob in the third quarter .  Kia will bring the new Sportage to Australia early in the new year , introducing new features and polarising styling to its SUV stable . The brand will follow that with a new Picanto city car in late March , before a facelifted version of its Cerato small car arrives in in early April .  Lamborghini is set LP580-2 . The coupe will offer Lamborghini customers a chance to own one of its cars for less than $400,000 when it arrives in the first half of the year . Look out for the first local appearance of Lamborghini 's hardcore Aventador SV , a lighter and faster version of the brand 's most potent performance car .  Land Rover and Range Rover will break with tradition by offering a convertible version of the Range Rover Evoque in late September or early October . Before that the British brand will also introduce an opulent SV Autobiography variant of its full-sized Range Rover four-wheel-drive om April , as well as the Land Rover Discovery Sport Dynamic in July .  Lexus will welcome a new GS F sports sedan in the first quarter of the year , offering V8 performance in its mid-sized luxury contender . The brand is also considering a turbocharged NX 200t in sporty F Sport trim that could draw new buyers to the brand .  Lotus is in for a big year , introducing the 298kW Evora 400 sports car as well as a new The brand may also bring special editions that celebrate the British marque 's heritage .  Mahindra looks set to bring new tech to its XUV500 with a mid-life update to the crossover early in the year , as well as updating the bare bones Genio ute .  Maserati is set to join the SUV trend with its new Levante toward the end of the year . The luxury crossover will go head-to-head with the likes of Porsche 's Cayenne and the Bentley Bentayga .  Mazda 's big news in 2016 is a replacement for its CX-9 SUV . The seven-seat soft-roader will arrive in mid-2016 , bringing new styling and technology to Mazda 's largest offering .  McLaren will bring new entry-level models to Australia in the form of its new 570S and 540C duo . The new cars are significantly cheaper than McLaren 's current products , available early in the year from $350,000 or so .  Mercedes-Benz will introduce a replacement for its E-Class executive sedan later this year , introducing new technology to the mid-sized luxury segment . The brand will also bring well as more powerful , 280kW versions of its turbocharged A45 , GLA45 and CLA45 trio . The brand will replace the current GL-class with an updated GLS SUV in the second quarter of the year , accompanied by a new C-Class coupe and facelifted SL-class roadster . Those models will be followed by a new S-Class cabriolet in the second half of the year . Mercedes-Benz is also set to introduce plug-in hybrid versions of its S-Class and C-Class sedans as well as the GLE-Class SUV .  Mitsubishi 's year will begin with a skin-deep facelift of its Mirage city car that offers slightly sharper styling along with new infotainment features . That model will be joined mid-year by a refreshed Outlander PHEV plug-in hybrid model with new looks as well as extra drivetrain refinement .  Nissan has a handful of options on its plate , including a range of Nismo-branded performance cars not currently available in Australia . Those include the Nissan GT-R Nismo supercar , Juke Nismo hatchback and 370Z Nismo coupe that could be a good for for Australia .  Mini will introduce a of the year . The Mini Convertible is likely to carry over the brand 's choice of turbocharged 1.5-litre three-cylinder and 2.0-litre four-cylinder engines .  Peugeot 's big news is the introduction of its 308 GTi hatch . Priced from $44,990 plus on-road costs , the French pocket rocket offers up to 200kW of power from a turbocharged 1.6-litre engine .  Porsche will introduce a new 911 Carrera early in the year , switching from naturally aspirated to turbocharged power for the most iconic sports car on sale . That model will be followed by Carrera 4 all-wheel-drive versions , an open-roof Targa variant and an update to the brand 's 911 Turbo flagship . Porsche is also rumoured to be replacing its Boxster and Cayman duo with new entry level sports cars toward the end of the year . The brand will also introduce a sporty GTS variant of its Macan SUV before Easter .  RAM trucks will ramp up its Australian presence in 2016 , having entered the market in November last year . The converted American trucks are powered by 6.7-litre turbo diesel engines and year will focus on the new Megane , which is set to arrive around September . The all-new French hatch is longer and sleeker than its predecessor , though performance buyers will have to wait until 2017 to drive the upcoming RS performance variant . Renault will also introduce a new Master Bus in January .  Rolls-Royce is set to introduce a new convertible based on its decadent Wraith coupe . The two-door , four-seat Dawn will arrive in the first half of the year , bringing top-down opulence for a hefty $749,000 plus options .  Skoda will welcome its new Superb to Australia in March . The larger , better equipped and more refined successor to the brand 's flagship will be the most advanced Skoda on sale .  Subaru is set to bring its WRX-based Levorg wagon to Australia in 2016 , blending turbocharged performance and versatility in a combination that will be welcomed by supporters of the brand . The brand will also introduce an updated version of its Forester SUV that will include a tuned tS version with hardware sourced through its STI performance Ignis hatch at the end of the year , giving the brand a rival to the new Mazda2 . The manufacturer is also ready to sell a turbocharged version of its Vitara compact SUV in time for the second quarter of the year , offering more power and torque than the brand 's current offering .  Tesla will double its Australian range late in the year with the local introduction of its Model X SUV . The electric marque 's first high-riding wagon will offer supercar-style " gullwing " rear doors , along with supercar performance in dual-motor P90D trim .  Toyota 's iconic Prius hybrid is in line for replacement in March , introducing new styling and a more refined and efficient powertrain . The biggest selling brand in Australia will also unveil a facelifted RAV4 to tackle the SUV market . The fourth quarter will see an updated version of the LandCruiser 70-series with improved safety including stability control across the range .  Volkswagen 's year starts with a five-door Alltrack version of the new Passat wagon in March , lending all-wheel-drive traction and versatility to be joined toward the end of the year by a facelifted Amarok ute as well as a new Tiguan compact SUV to tackle rivals such as Mazda 's CX-5 in the fourth quarter .  Volvo 's new XC90 will soon be available in purposefully-styled R-Design trim as well as the range-topping T8 plug-in hybrid . The brand 's compact V40 hatch is also in line for an update late in the year , accompanied by a new S90 sedan that shares its engines , underpinnings and driver aids with the XC90.