Australia still confident ahead of World T20
http://www.cricket.com.au/news/australia-on-track-world-t20-tournament-despite-india-defeats-michael-di-venuto/2016-01-31

Australia still confident ahead of World T20  Consecutive defeats to India has n't diminished belief that elusive silverware can finally be won  Australia remain optimistic about their Twenty20 World Cup campaign despite being shown up in all facets by India in the opening two matches of their current series .  With Steve Smith leading an advanced party to New Zealand for the forthcoming ODI series , the Australians have made more changes to their XI , with Shane Watson to lead the side after skipper Aaron Finch suffered a hamstring injury in Friday night 's second T20 defeat .  Finch is awaiting scan results and the Australia camp is bullish he will be able to return before the start of the World Cup in India on March 8 .  Cameron Bancroft will also make his T20 international debut in place of wicketkeeper Matthew Wade , who is already in New Zealand ahead of Wednesday 's first ODI .  Watch : Bancroft shock at T20 call-up  Australia 's best XI looks far from settled and the side is desperate to gather 37 runs in Adelaide and 27 runs in Melbourne .  Stand-in Australian coach Michael Di Venuto described the defeats as just a bump in the road .  Di Venuto said the selectors were using the series to look at certain players -- and would use the coming one-dayers against the Kiwis to do the same -- and there were plenty of positives as the side chased the only ICC event to escape their grasp .  " We 've had quite a few debutants so far throughout the series , " Di Venuto said . " We 've got some players resting or heading to New Zealand to prepare for that .  " The makeup of our side might be completely different . We 'll just have to see what the selectors come up with . "  Khawaja 's omission from the original squad was a surprising one after his successful summer with the Test team and a blistering Big Bash for the Sydney Thunder , in which he averaged 172.5 .  Watch : Khawaja sparkles with super 70  Finch 's injury leaves the door be a three-form Australia representative .  " When I did n't get picked in the one-day team I did n't get too worried , " Khawaja said . " There 's a lot of cricket coming up . I was really happy with how I was hitting the ball . "  Meanwhile , Di Venuto will stand in for Darren Lehmann during Australia 's one-day series in New Zealand starting next week .  Lehmann , who was sidelined after being diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis a week ago , is a chance to return for the Test portion of the series .  The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia .