The pressures of IVF treatment and infertility
http://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/relationships/family-friends/the-pressures-of-ivf-treatment-and-infertility/news-story/486b5ef1e4da9b862c452db91a38528c

the pressures of ivf treatment and infertility  its impacts are so great that it has been said to be the silent killer of friendships .  but it 's not what you might think .  ivf treatment has been hailed the miracle procedure for women and couples unable to conceive naturally since it became available in 1978 .  it is now estimated to be responsible for the birth of more than five million babies worldwide .  but one of the consequences not often spoken when it comes to ivf is the toll the process can take on recipients ' relationships and friendships , according to sydney-based counsellor and co-author of empowered fertility : a practical twelve-step guide , claire hall .  ms hall said the ivf process often leads to social breakdowns because it " takes over ( the recipient 's ) life " .  " a lot of people going through the ivf cycle can find relationships tend to dwindle , " ms hall told news.com.au .  " ( the recipients ) might withdraw because they do n't want at christmas when they 're trying to avoid everyone knowing about it , " she said .  " sometimes it 's useful to prepare a list of standard replies so instead of waiting to get invited to a baby shower or drinks , get to the mirror and role play three or four standard replies to help get you out of it . "  news of friends , colleagues and family members who have got pregnant can also add to the stress and frustration for those struggling with infertility while trying to conceive .  " one ( of my clients undergoing ivf ) had a baby announcement nearly every day in the office at work recently and found it incredibly hard , " ms hall said .  " she worked in a nice office environment then suddenly it 's a pregnant environment that she 's not a part of -- all of a sudden she 's out of the club . "  rebecca and peter tos with their six week old daughter mahli , who was born after her mum endured years of ivf **26;99;toolong  circles while undergoing ivf .  " more peripheral friendships may not continue but that may be from inconvenience as much as choice , " she said .  " if friends go off to have babies , they 're in different life cycle .  " if a couple does n't have children they will build up other social circles and find other couples who want to go out on friday nights .  " if people do n't know what they 're going through they can be unintentionally insensitive , but not with malice , it 's often because they 're unaware their friend or colleague is under immense stress and characterise it as out of the norm if they 're withdrawn or emotional . "  the good news is that close friendships should prevail long term , according to ms hall .  " if it 's a solid close friendship , it may go through a bit of a blitz but it should come back together because of its solid history , " she said .  ms hall said tactics could be adopted to avoid " one of the key things is to have a rule in place to limit fertility talk to 20 minutes a day , " she said .  " have the talk in the garage or laundry so it 's not in your commonly used space and get it all off your chest in those 20 minutes -- -- with exceptions when important discussions need to be had -- then have the rest of your life together .  " it 's easy to become overwhelmed by the vast amount of information out there but i recommend people get back to basics and keep communication channels open .  " it 's important to understand where each other is at because it 's an incredibly stressful journey for both but traditionally more so for women because they 're going through injections . "  couples trying ivf may withdraw from their social circls because they do n't want to go to another baby shower or face the family at **25;127;toolong  ivf is a common form of assisted reproductive technology ( art ) , and typically involves five steps to complete egg retrieval from ovaries ; fertilisation of eggs ; embryo maturation and transfer of embryo to uterus .  each cycle takes about six weeks to complete , with many women undergoing multiple cycles when initial attempts are unsuccessful .  the latest australian and new zealand assisted reproduction database ( anzard ) report shows a total of 70,082 cycles of assisted reproductive technology treatment were performed across australia and new zealand in 2012 .  more than 92 per cent of those cycles were carried out in australian clinics .  earlwood residents rebecca , 37 and peter tos experienced unexplained infertility and at least seven failed cycles of ivf cycles over as many years until finally delivering a healthy baby girl , mahli rose six weeks ago .  but undergoing ivf was n't an easy road for them to travel .  " we were really open about what we were doing with bosses , work people in the early years , " ms tos said .  " but when we saw the disappointment in their faces when it did n't work , we 'd go through n't work , we did n't tell anyone .  " a lot of people tried to be comforting that had no idea what we were going through and why would they when they have n't been through it themselves ? "  ms tos said the experience brought her closer to her husband but that some of her friendships deteriorated .  " my friends were more conscious about sharing how wonderful motherhood was with me , " she said .  " they held back and did n't share as much with me and looked to others for that .  " certain friendships changed where we could n't connect on some levels because i was n't a mother and they were n't aware of the pain i was going through .  " it was hard because i was doing ivf over seven years when most friends who were similar ages to me were onto their third babies . "  but ms tos said the ordeal paled into insignificance with the birth of her daughter and that she has n't ruled out doing it again .  we do n't lnow if it 's possible to conceive naturally but i would like to give her a brother or sister one day . "