Juventus v Napoli: Higuain confident he can handle pressure
http://www.fourfourtwo.com/au/news/juventus-v-napoli-higuain-confident-he-can-handle-pressure

juventus v napoli : higuain confident he can handle pressure  possessing great experience of high-pressure matches , gonzalo higuain insists he is composed ahead of napoli 's crucial clash with juventus .  napoli talisman gonzalo higuain insists he can handle the pressure ahead of the serie a leaders ' mouth-watering top-of-the-table clash with champions juventus .  maurizio sarri 's men visit the scudetto holders on saturday with a two-point lead over them at the summit as both sides enjoy a run of stunning form .  juventus are on a club-record 14-game winning streak in serie a and will be favourites to win the title for the fifth consecutive season should they defeat napoli .  napoli are on a club-record winning run of their own , having taken maximum points from their last eight league encounters .  their results in this campaign have owed much to the goalscoring prowess of higuain , who is averaging a goal a game in the league with 24 to his name -- a huge 11 clear of juve 's paulo dybala , his closest challenger for of his best tally in a european league , which came in 2009-10 when he scored 27 for real madrid .  having played for madrid and featured in the world cup final for argentina in 2014 , higuain is no stranger to pressure and he is keeping his cool ahead of the biggest game of the season .  " i am calm , " higuain told rai . " i have been playing football for many years and i am used to the pressure .  " obviously there is a great desire to take to the pitch though -- it is like a derby game .  " we know it is down to us , we have to remain calm and not get carried away with the euphoria because it could hurt us . it is better to keep our feet on the ground . "  massimiliano allegri 's juventus are still without kwadwo asamoah ( thigh ) , mario mandzukic and giorgio chiellini ( both calf ) for the encounter in turin .  midfielder paul pogba is understandably keen to take maximum points from juve concentrate on their overall ambition .  " we will play to win against napoli as always but the only thing that truly matters is finishing top of the pile , " pogba told juve 's website .  " we are still off the pace at the moment and that 's not something we are used to . what we have to do now is keep our heads , stay focused and not lose sight of what we want to achieve . "  napoli claimed victory in the reverse fixture last september , with higuain on target in a 2-1 success at stadio san paolo .  they have not completed the league double over juve since the 2009-10 campaign and doing so for the fourth time in club history would put napoli in a commanding position to end a 26-year wait to win the scudetto again .  key opta stats :  - juventus have won each of their four serie a matches against napoli played at juventus stadium , with 11 goals scored and just one conceded in the process .  - this match scored ) face the best defence ( juventus , 15 goals conceded ) in serie a 2015-16 .  - juventus have gained the most points from losing situations in serie a this season ( 13 ) , and lost the fewest after going ahead ( 2 ) .  - napoli are the only side who have led for more than 1000 minutes in serie a this season ( 1003 ) .