Meet the Google executive tapped to run the cancer-screening ...
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/former-google-executive-jeff-huber-is-joining-illumina-spin-out-as-ceo-2016-2

grail also now has the backing of google ventures , it said when announcing huber 's appointment on wednesday .  huber spoke with business insider about his reasons for joining grail , the company 's plans to conduct the biggest ever clinical trial , his most recent stint at google x , the company 's research unit , and his personal experience with the disease .  from ads to biotech  huber started his tenure at google working to build its ad platform . from there , he went on to work on everything from google apps to google maps . after he hit the 10-year mark , he started to think about what he wanted to do next and realised that working at that intersection of biology and technology was going to be his next step .  " as i thought about what i wanted to do next at google , it seemed to me like biology and science was having a pretty fundamental shift , " he said .  huber was most recently a senior vice president at google x , biology . he also served on illumina 's board for the last two years , where he felt the ethical imperative of what the company 's been doing with its " ultra-deep sequencing " research .  dna sequencing is a process in which researchers can break down dna into its most basic building blocks , which they can then analyse to inform everything from where your ancestors came from to what diseases you might be predisposed to .  huber 's motives are also deeply personal . his wife died last year of late-stage cancer . a screening test that could diagnose her disease early on might have changed the course of her life .  " every day we do n't have a test available , lives are being lost , " he said . so , grail 's plan is to move with " tech-company speed , balanced by science and quality results .  moving at tech-company speed as a healthcare company has to be taken with some caution : if the excitement around a certain idea moves faster than the science , it could have some if grail 's able to pull off the scientific validation at the same time , it could be astonishing to see .  huber 's first task is going to be to build a team that can take on the seemingly impossible task of developing a universal cancer-screening test . his 12 years of working at the biggest technology company in the world , have taught him a lot about how important a mission-driven workplace is .  " google did a great job of recognising importance of having a great team going after the big challenges , " he said .  " we 're putting together best team of scientists with the best understanding of cancer biology , the best big data and informatics and build the infrastructure it takes to do this , " he said . " that way we can see the patterns , correlations , data that will then feed the predictions and hypotheses and give us a better understanding of cancer biology . "  where they 're starting  the idea behind a cancer-screening test is to identify the tiny bits of cancer undetectable . if grail is successful , it will be the first to pull off a cancer-detecting blood test that works proactively . the concept is similar to liquid biopsy tests , which use blood samples to sequences genetic information in that blood to figure out how tumours are responding to a certain cancer therapy .  with one simple blood draw , grail 's plan is to sequence and screen for those bits with the hope that it will help catch cancer before it starts to be a full-blown problem . there 's been a team of about 30 working within illumina laying out the groundwork for the test for at least a year , and the group officially received their grail job offers last week .  for the next two years , the focus will be on optimising the technology of the test that 's in the making . grail 's working with health systems and research institutions like memorial sloan kettering to do this .  once they work out the kinks , huber expects to do the largest-ever clinical trial to see how the cancer screening the thought of a misdiagnosis for cancer .  that is going to be three or four years away , he said . if it means running the screen on millions of people and waiting to see if the test proved accurate , grail is many more years away from reaching its goal , even at " tech-speed . "  this timeline is a point that huber is keen to remind people of . he does this by pointing out his start date : february 29 .  " i think starting on leap day underscores long-term mission we have , " he said . because , get it ? he 'll technically only have an anniversary every four years .  disclosure : jeff bezos is an investor in business insider through his personal investment company bezos expeditions .