'Girl Meets World' star Rowan Blanchard admits having had trouble ...
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/girl-meets-world-star-rowan-blanchard-admits-having-had-trouble-making-female-friends-hollywood

rowan blanchard , star of " girl meets world , " shared that she was initially scared to make friends with other women in the acting business .  " i think i went through this thing where i was scared to be friends with other women , especially in the business , " blanchard told refinery29 at the vanity fair &amp;l'oreal dj night hosted by hailee steinfeld .  she added that the felt and believed that there is a stereotype that people in hollywood hate each other . however , she immediately learned that women in hollywood are actually very supportive towards one another . she explained how it is refreshing to have her own circle of friends , who show support for each other and do the same things .  blanchard continued that her feminist ideas are also set to be shown on " girl meets world . " she said that the writers are very open to her ideas and she has influenced them to a certain extent . she said that in one episode , titled " girl meets stem , excel in math and science because women are taught to be submissive , while men are trained to do all the work . she cited that she was happy and proud of the episode .  the 14-year-old actress shared that she suggested to the writing team that they add more inclusivity . the writers are aware that blanchard wants more representation in terms of race , gender and sexuality on the show . she noted how the show 's predecessor , " boy meets world , " also had very strong feminist undertones .  " girl meets world " is a coming of age sitcom on disney channel . blanchard plays riley matthews on the show , the main character and daughter of cory ( ben savage ) and topanga ( danielle fishel ) from the original series .  the show is currently in its second season while a third season has already been announced . production for the next season started in january and it is set to launch in spring 2016 . season 3 will feature riley and her friends stepping into high school .  for season 2 on mar. 11.