'Mad Max' actors join 'Wayward Pines' season 2 cast
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/mad-max-actors-join-wayward-pines-season-2-cast-1506768

' mad max ' actors join ' wayward pines ' season 2 cast  director m. night shyamalan poses for portrait during the 2015 comic-con international convention in san diego , california july 9 , 2015 . reuters/mario anzuoni  as " wayward pines " season 2 continues to take shape , a new actor from " mad max " was confirmed to be joining the show .  josh helman has been signed to become a series regular on the second season of the fox drama , writes the hollywood reporter . he will reportedly play a key role as xander , described as a confident and charming man who attempts to destroy wayward pines from the inside . xander has a unique relationship with some of powerful characters running the town . he will be dealing with both the first generation and the adults .  helman is well known for playing the role of slit in the 2015 film " mad max : fury road , " as well as major bill stryker in " x-men : days of future past . " he " blinder " and " animal kingdom , " and will also reprise his role as stryker in " x-men : apocalypse . " helman has also appeared in tv shows such as " the pacific " and " flesh and bone . "  helman is the latest actor to join the cast after jason patric , christopher meyer , djimon hounsou , nimrat kaur and kacey rohl . it is still uncertain which characters from season 1 will reprise their role in the reboot .  the actor is represented by gersh , stokes management and lisa mann creative management in australia .  the holllywood reporter also cites that " wayward pines 2 " will continue the events from the final moments of the season 1 finale , where the residents of the town fight the strict rule of the first generation . patric will play dr. theo yedlin , a new member of the town who wakes up from suspended animation and realizes that there is a rebellion brewing . he does his best to uncover the secrets of wayward pines as well as find ways to wrote the story and will also serve as executive producer , together with series author blake crouch , ashwin rajan , mark friedman and donald de line .  there is no official launch date for " wayward pines " season 2 , although the plan is for the series to launch sometime in the summer of 2016.