'The Walking Dead' Season 6B spoilers: 'Knots Untie' sets the ...
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/walking-dead-season-6b-spoilers-knots-untie-sets-ground-violent-fight-between-rick-negan-1506736

The first episode of " The Walking Dead : Michonne " is coming out this February . Telltale Games  " The Walking Dead " Season 6B , Episode 11 , " Knots Untie " is not only great but also critical in revealing information that is essential in how it 's going to affect the survivors in Alexandria .  Spoiler Alert Moreover , the episode puts into light the expected standoff between residents of Alexandria and Negan ( Jeffrey Dean Morgan ) . " Knots Untie " also focuses on the problem Jesus ( Tom Payne ) is facing .  According to GQ , Episode 11 is a gauntlet of awkward conversations that viewers found hard to not wince . Jesus reveals that he belongs to a community of survivors from a colony called Hilltop . He may play a pivotal role in an alliance between the two groups . Jesus ' confession surprises Rick ( Andrew Lincoln ) and others as all along they have been thinking they were the only group of survivors who were able to build a community .  , Glenn , Daryl and Michonne to pack their bags and prepare for a road trip to Hilltop for food supplies and other essentials .  They do n't go too far and find a wrecked car that Jesus knows belongs to his community . When others are more or less sure that it 's a trap , Jesus saves the day with his grim face . They track down the survivors after killing a few zombies .  What becomes evident is that the Hilltop people are bad in killing zombies and there is a doctor among the Hilltop people . When they reach the Hilltop community , Rick and his group finds out that this community does not have guns but spears . However , they have abundant livestock , crops , people with OB/GYN training and medical supply , notes io9 .  Rick asks Maggie ( Lauren Cohan ) to negotiate with the Hilltop leader Gregory ( Xander Berkeley ) who seems to be unwelcoming . Soon Gregory is stabbed in the gut by Nathan whose brother has been kidnapped by Negan . It turns out that half of every essential commodity in exchange of protection .  Finally a deal is struck . Hilltop agrees to provide Rick some of their essentials to be taken ton Alexandria . In return , Rick must take care of Negan.