'The Blacklist' season 3 episode 16 recap: A mysterious man holds ...
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/blacklist-season-3-episode-16-recap-mysterious-man-holds-box-secrets-most-notorious-criminals

cast members ( front l-r ) diego klattenhoff , james spader , megan boone and ( rear l-r ) ryan eggold and harry lennix participate in a panel for " the blacklist " during the nbc sessions at the television critics association summer press tour in beverly hills , california july 27 , 2013 . reuters/phil mccarten  in season 3 episode 16 of " the blacklist , " it was shown that red ( james spader ) was hiding some vital information from liz ( megan boone ) , particularly about her mother . the two meet a mysterious man called the caretaker who keeps a safety deposit box holding information on various criminals .  at the start of the episode , tom ( ryan eggold ) was featured getting better from the previous attack which almost cost him his life . liz said yes to his marriage proposal . liz shared the news to red , as well as her plan to keep the baby , but the latter was not so happy about her decision .  the blacklister in the episode , who keeps special information about criminals in a safety deposit box . the character was played by reg e. cathey and it was shown that one official was murdered in beijing because of him .  red eventually acquired information leading ressler ( diego klattenhoff ) and samar ( mozhan marno ) to a cemetery , where they discovered the caretaker inside a dug up grave . the blacklister actually uses the bodies in the cemetery to keep his secrets .  the caretaker shared that he revealed one secret that led to the death of the official because someone who kidnapped his daughter blackmailed him into giving up the information . the caretaker was also ordered to uncover another secret involving the german government hiding a terrorist attack . the team has to locate his daughter or have the secret revealed to keep her alive .  meanwhile , liz visits velov , a man who has information about her mother . liz also went to velov 's daughter and read a letter where she discovered that her mother is alive and red lied to her .  two terrorists a cargo truck . the team managed to disarm the bomb and apprehend the suspects .  afterwards , red was able to determine the location of the kidnappers . the task force raided the venue and was able to save the caretaker 's daughter . later , it turned out that the caretaker 's daughter had herself kidnapped to expose her father , since the latter is not truly her father . all of the caretaker 's information were placed under the control of the fbi .  the next episode of " the blacklist , " titled " mr solomon , " airs april 7.