Australian Scientists Discover Human-Caused Global Warming ...
http://www.gizmodo.com.au/2016/03/australian-scientists-discover-human-caused-global-warming-from-the-1930s/

australian scientists discover human-caused global warming from the 1930 's  the last 16 record-breaking hot years globally clearly show the influence of human caused climate change with the first signs appearing as far back as the 1930s , according to new australian research released today .  " globally all the record-breaking hot years we 've had since the 1990s are so much outside natural variability that they would be almost impossible without climate change caused by humans , " said dr andrew king , from the arc centre of excellence for climate system science .  but even at country and regional scales , where it is often much harder to detect global warming signals , the influence of human caused climate change still became unmistakable in many regions in the 1990s and for australia as far back as 1980 .  " in australia our research showed the last six record-breaking hot years and last three record-breaking hot summers were made much more likely due to global warming , " said lead author , dr king .  " we were able to see in the southern hemisphere in the middle of the ocean , far away from the cooling influence of high concentrations of industrial aerosols . "  previous research has shown that aerosols in high concentrations over specific regions had a cooling effect , reflecting more heat back into space . however , when those aerosols were removed from the atmosphere , the warming returned rapidly .  this cooling impact was seen very clearly by the researchers when they looked at five different regions , central england , central europe , central us , east asia and australia .  cooling periods , likely caused by aerosols , occurred in central england , central us , central europe and east asia during the 1960s and 1970s before accelerated warming returned . these heightened aerosol concentrations also delayed the emergence of a clear human caused climate change signal in all regions studied except australia .  " in regards to a regional human caused climate change signal , australia was the canary in the coal mine for the rest of the world . the signal appeared there first and then over the said .  " recent increases in aerosols over east asia has started to slow the rise in the number of the region 's record hot years and summers , again masking the clear climate change signal we are finding in other areas .  " high aerosol concentrations also significantly delayed the climate signal in the central us . "  to get their results the researchers took a new approach . in the past , most researchers searching for a human caused climate change signal selected specific events and then tried to determine the role of climate change in those events .  by contrast , this study looked at when events started exceeding the range of natural variability . using climate models , they looked at a world without human produced greenhouse gases and compared it to a world where the composition of the atmosphere corresponded with those found over time in the real world .  where real world observations rose above the range of natural variability produced in climate models showing temperatures in a world without industrial activity , this indicated the unequivocal influence of human climate change signal for extreme heat events is becoming stronger . the key now is to determine how much warmer the climate will continue to get , so we can respond to the impacts this will inevitably bring , " said dr king .  " this is particularly true for australia , which appears to have one of the strongest climate change signals for a populated country . as a nation , it will need to respond more quickly and understand clearly what future climate change brings . "  join the discussion !  trending stories right now  you do n't own your ebooks with drm . you 're merely licensing the privilege to read them . some readers overseas have learned this the hard way ( yet again ) now that nook is going out of business in the united kingdom . but do n't worry , they 're working to let you maybe possibly transfer all those books you bought .  it 's not a great feeling when you frame a photo on your iphone only to find out there 's not enough free storage app that performs some under-the-hood trickery to give you more room for photos -- thousands of them -- without forcing you to delete any of your existing ones .