Asteroid in orbit path of key satellites
http://www.smh.com.au/technology/sci-tech/asteroid-set-to-fly-through-optus-satellite-path-20160307-gncshp.html

Streaking through space at more than 14 kilometres a second , TX68 is on the way . Photo : The Age  An Earth-bound asteroid , dubbed 2013 TX68 , could pass well within the ring of communications and GPS satellites that orbit more than 35,000 kilometres above the equator , scientists warn .  " We know the asteroid will miss Earth - but it 's possible that it may pass within the range of some orbiting satellites that make the satnav system on your phone possible , " said Swinburne University astrophysicist Dr Alan Duffy .  The minimum distance of closest approach is around 24,000 kilometres .  Dr Kurt Liffman , astrophysicist  Australia has several satellites in orbit around the Earth , including several owned by telecommunications giant Optus and one by Westpac Bank .  Spud-shaped asteroids like this come from the densely populated asteroid belt , between Mars and Jupiter . Photo : Joanne Crawford  " Satellites are tiny targets in the huge emptiness of space - so it would be incredibly unlucky for Australia or any nation to . " That said , a hit can not be entirely ruled out . "  Advertisement  Another Swinburne astrophysicist , Dr Kurt Liffman , agrees . " The minimum distance of closest approach is around 24,000 kilometres , which would take the asteroid within range of some of our key satellites , " Dr Liffman said .  An Optus spokesperson said : " As an experienced satellite operator , Optus closely monitors information published by the international space community on activities that are relevant to satellite operations . "  The company has six satellites , making it the largest fleet servicing Australia , New Zealand and Antarctica . One satellite operates at 152 degrees east , two at 156 degrees east , one at 160 degrees east and two at 164 degrees east .  " Since commencing satellite operations in 1985 , Optus has experienced no adverse effects on its satellite fleet resulting from fly-bys of any asteroids and is confident that 2013 TX68 poses no threat to our current fleet , " Mr Murray said .  Heading towards Earth at more than 14 kilometres and about the weight of Sydney 's Harbour Bridge , follows an elliptical , egg-shaped route as it orbits the sun , routinely crossing our path .  During the last lap two years ago , the space rock flew by at the reassuringly safe distance of more than 2 million kilometres .  Odds are one in 250 million that the near-Earth asteroid could hit next time round -- namely on September 28 next year , the experts say . Fly bys in 2046 and 2097 have a lower probability of impact .  " TX68 is likely three times the mass of the asteroid that exploded above Chelyabinsk in Russia in February , 2013 , " said Dr Duffy .  " Were TX68 ever to hit Earth in some future orbit , it would probably explode in the atmosphere -- creating an enormous air blast with twice the energy of Chelyabinsk , damaging buildings and injury to people . "  As two-thirds of Earth 's surface is covered by water , most asteroids of this kind tend to disintegrate harmlessly above the ocean .  Although NASA than 90 per cent of asteroids of one kilometre or more across , there are many smaller objects that could potentially collide with Earth in the future .