Researchers call for overhaul of rehab programs for older stroke ...
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2016-03-08/overhaul-of-rehab-programs-for-stroke-survivors/7229786

australian researchers are calling for a national strategy to maintain or improve physical function in older stroke survivors .  the team from the university of newcastle used 15 years of data from the australian longitudinal study on women 's health , and found many who survived stroke lived longer than 15 years with poor physical function .  lead author isobel hubbard said she found that few recovered from the low levels of physical function after suffering a stroke .  dr hubbard said it showed physicians needed to reconsider the support and rehabilitation programs that improved quality of life .  perhaps we 've assumed that this group did n't need too many healthcare resources because they simply were n't going to live very long .  isobel hubbard , newcastle researcher  " over 50 per cent of women with stroke were surviving over 10 years . a quarter of those who surviving even with poor physical function , " she said .  " that means that they 're not able to get up a flight of stairs , or easily pick up  " that 's really quite an extraordinary outcome . "  dr hubbard said given many of the women could expect to live for a significant amount of time , doctors needed to think about improving their quality of life .  " the tend to be a group that have perhaps have gone under everybody 's radar , " she said .  " perhaps we 've assumed that this group did n't need too many healthcare resources because they simply were n't going to live very long .  " but now we know , in fact , that is not necessarily true .  " so i think we just need to re-look at what we 're offering this particular group of women . "  the results have been published in the american heart association journal , stroke .  there are supposed to be checks and balances that would prevent donald trump doing too much damage as us president . but these have been eroded and an era of " imperial presidency " means we should be worried , writes chris berg .