SEGA's Strategy Humble Bundle Is Bloody Good Value
http://www.kotaku.com.au/2016/03/segas-strategy-humble-bundle-is-bloody-good-value/

sega 's strategy humble bundle is bloody good value  i was having a chat with a friend about strategy games . he told me he was going through some older titles , but could n't really get into the total war games . having just finished a playthrough of the original dawn of war 2 , i recommended relic 's classic and said it should be available for pretty cheap .  he had n't found the time to buy the game yet , though . so when i saw sega dump a truckload of strategy games into the latest humble bundle package this morning , you can bet my friend got a prompt email .  besides the wet squib that is the humble monthly offering , there 's a ton of value in here . the first dawn of war is still most people 's favourite because it has all of the base-building mechanics that relic opted to scrap for the sequel .  the original company of heroes remains an excellent experience for those with a penchant for ww2 strategy . the total sorely needed quality-of-life changes . but they 'll run like the wind on modern systems and with mods there 's plenty of fun to be had .  second tier : pay more than the average ( us$6.10 )  two quality collections and one hell of a pc port .  valkyria chronicles  warhammer 40,000 : dawn of war 2 -- grand master collection  eastside hockey manager  total war : shogun 2 -- fall of the samurai collection  66% off football manager 2016  the football manager 2016 coupon is kind of a moot point i feel : if you 're into football manager , chances are you would have bought the game already ( or you 're still playing an older version ) . eastside hockey manager is sports interactive 's take on ice hockey management and is still pretty fresh , having only launched in early december .  but the real value here is in the mega collections . the dawn of war 2 comes with the original , the chaos rising expansion and retribution , which is basically three strong campaigns that also lets you play a campaign with any of the six available races , a nice change from the space marine-bromance in dow 2 and chaos rising .  for just over $8 , that 's worth it alone . but getting valkyria chronicles on top is a massive bonus . the pc port is the best version of what was originally a ps3 exclusive , running at a silky smooth 60 fps in 1080p .  if you 're unfamiliar with the ip , valkyria chronicles is a cross between a third-person action and tactical strategy that borrows heavily from the second world war in its fictional depiction of a european conflict . it 's a great game for anyone who liked xcom and a real ps3 gem . ( can we get pc ports for the others , like wipeout hd ? please , sony ? )  as for shogun 2 , it 's one of the more beloved games in the total war franchise although the nature of battling in feudal japan means the playable surroundings are a little more restricted than , say , rome 2 unlock  this tier 's harder to justify , and might not be worth it at all if you 're not a stringent ww2/fantasy strategist .  total war : attila  company of heroes 2 : master collection  on the surface , it 's an excellent deal for total war : attila . but the game was not warmly received by fans , with the dlc pilloried for being excessive . slavic nations cost us$6 . you want charlemagne ? that 's another us$10 . and that 's not to mention the beefy rig users report you 'll need , as a result of the optimisation issues .  company of heroes 2 has no such issues with performance or optimisation though . the master collection also means you 'll get the two campaigns and three extra multiplayer factions . but the general consensus is that you can have a thoroughly rewarding experience with the original company of heroes and the eastern front mod .  it 's been years since i played the original coh 2 singleplayer campaign , and i have n't had any experience with the it 's not as authentic as the original , although it 's hard to tell how much nostalgia plays a part in those impressions .  so that 's it for the latest humble bundle that 's actually worth your time . and money . a lot of your time and not much money . what are your thoughts ? do the total war/creative assembly games take your fancy , or are you like me and more partial to the dawn of war offerings ? and what about valkyria chronicles -- any fans want to make an argument as to why people should play it in the comments ?  discuss  the problem with a bundle full so many great strategy games is that rather than feasting on one for many hours ( like it deserves ) , you 'll most likely snack on them all for only a couple of hours each . time for lunch .  most of these were part of an older sega humble bundle which means unfortunately a lot of people will already own most of them . its a shame , but it , and the rest can be considered a bonus .  trending stories right now  matchmaking in counter-strike is often an exercise in tolerance . it 's even more intense in third-party matchmaking services , as those are generally only frequented by those truly devoted to the game . naturally , that devotion often manifests in the form of teammates belittling each other , rage wars over the mic , and a general refusal to behave like decent human beings . esea runs one such service , although they 're not responsible for their users getting cranky . but they 've just given top players us$20,000 reasons to get even angrier at their teammates.