Review: Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice
http://ripitup.com.au/screen/review-batman-v-superman-dawn-justice

review : batman v superman : dawn of justice  words by mad dog bradleymarch 23 , 2016  producer/director zack snyder 's next-cab-off-the-rank after the darkened-up superman rethink man of steel is a gargantuan , spoiler-crammed affair that proves so overextended and overcomplicated that it 's almost too much to take in , meaning that by the time we finally get to the titular grudge match you could well be over it . nevertheless , there are elements here that work strongly and even spectacularly , and yet most of them ca n't be discussed without betraying this one 's many secrets ( and finding yourself attacked by roving , drooling gangs of dc comic fanboys ) .  while the final battle between superman ( henry cavill ) and crazed kryptonian general zod ( michael shannon ) is taking place at the end of the previous pic , we cut to the damage it 's doing to wayne enterprises , and witness the beginnings of bruce wayne 's mistrust of this supposed savior-from-the-skies . and , of course , wayne is played by ben affleck also have a rejigging of the dark knight origin story , and apparently are meant to believe that the three christopher nolan batman movies did n't happen , or did n't happen in quite the way we thought .  anyway , metropolis ' ' the superman ' is also wary of gotham 's ' the batman ' , and in his guise as clark kent he finds time to both investigate this other caped crusader while romancing lois lane ( amy adams again ) , as bruce and alfred ( jeremy irons this time ) mull over superman 's weaknesses back at the batcave ( although it seems to never be actually called that here ) . and , sensing that these two would-be goodies do n't like each other , lex luthor ( jesse eisenberg ) uses that to his psychopathic advantage , turning them against each other while cooking up ' doomsday ' and looning about like a bratty kid in an interpretation of superman 's chief nemesis quite different from gene hackman in the old christopher reeve movies . but , of course , hackman was an here , with an satirical anti-superman movement led by senator finch ( holly hunter ) , a barely-explained new character named diana prince ( aka you-know-who and played by striking israeli actress gal gadot ) and the expected and exhausting fx-clogged , city-crushing climax all contributing to a running-time of 153 seriously expensive minutes . and how much more can be given away ? how many spoilers can safely be betrayed ? well , here 's one : the subtitle means something , and ... and ... and hey , can you hear the lynch mobs approaching ?  batman v superman : dawn of justice is in cinemas from thursday , march 24