Climate friendly businesses moving ahead as Paris Agreement is ...
http://www.thefifthestate.com.au/spinifex/climate-friendly-businesses-moving-ahead-as-paris-agreement-is-signed/82015

reference  climate friendly businesses moving ahead as paris agreement is signed  monica richter , wwf 2 may 2016  australia 's signing of the paris agreement at the end of april was an historic event . it is the first time the world has struck an accord on one of the greatest global challenges of our time -- climate change .  there were 175 parties ( 174 countries and the european union ) who signed up to the paris agreement on climate change during a ceremony at the un 's new york headquarters , far exceeding the historical record for first-day signatures to an international agreement .  the signing of the paris agreement comes at a time when planetary temperatures and climate impacts are being felt across the globe . march was the warmest month ever , following 11 straight months of record global temperatures . one of the worst droughts ever experienced has hit eastern and southern africa , 93 per cent of the great barrier reef has been bleached as a result of warming sea temperatures , and greenland 's ice a few of the climate impacts already taking place .  the path forward is clear for all businesses , supply chains and investment portfolios . we must achieve net zero emissions by the middle of the century , build resilience against the climate impacts we will inevitably face , and put in place measures to ensure global financial systems move rapidly towards financing low and zero energy and climate-resilient investments .  smart businesses are recognising the opportunity this presents and signing up to science-based greenhouse gas emission targets . these companies have begun their own transition toward net zero emissions , the use of renewable energy , deploying innovative low-carbon technologies , sustainably sourcing resources , and much more .  in australia , bank australia , infigen energy , origin energy , teachers mutual and westpac are among those who have committed to setting science-based targets for reducing their greenhouse gas pollution .  just last week , investa pledged its commitment to reducing its emissions , which is a first for an australian property company . there are many more australian companies yet to make public announcements science-based pollution reduction target .  but these businesses ca n't do it alone . current market and regulatory conditions in australia need to be far more ambitious to drive the required changes towards net zero carbon pollution , and to create an environment that provides incentives for innovation and risk taking .  with greater clarity on the direction of travel and a consistent policy framework , companies will play a major role in closing the emissions gap left by country commitments , and as such they can be the best partners for governments to deliver their ambitious pollution reduction targets .  by making a commitment to achieving 100 per cent renewable electricity in australia by 2030 and net zero emissions before 2050 , the next australian federal government can create the right conditions for australia 's next boom -- one driven by innovation and clean , green technology .  australia has much to gain from participating in the net zero carbon economy , and much to lose if we do n't step up to the plate to meet our climate challenges head on . we hope that made by the above-mentioned companies , provides the momentum we need for a race to the top in australia on climate policy .