Why is the technology industry so afraid of tax?
http://www.smh.com.au/business/federal-budget/why-is-the-technology-industry-so-afraid-of-tax-20160429-goicji.html

The technology industry is being built up by politicians of all persuasions as the saviour for Australia 's post mining boom economy . There are all sorts of reasons why that 's a good thing . There are also plenty of reasons to be sceptical .  In a week when the gaping hole in the nation 's finances moves into view ( you probably have n't noticed , because no one in the media is talking about it , but the federal budget is being announced this week ) one issue seems particularly relevant .  Tax minimisation .  Entirely legal , morally questionable , and absolutely endemic in tech .  Advertisement  Take Google , whose official corporate motto is " Do n't Be Evil " .  Google 's dual personality  There is a lot to admire about Google , or Alphabet as its parent company is now known , from the perspective of an investor or anyone interested in business .  For example , in contrast to the boring Australian corporate philosophy of passively returning any excess cash to of weird and wonderful endeavours -- which of course may prove to be lucrative businesses over time , but mainly because it can .  It 's a pioneer in self-driving cars , for example . It 's trying to develop a system to deliver the internet from air balloons to people in unconnected and mainly poor regions .  Yet the company has been criticised in many parts of the globe , such as the UK and here in Australia , for the relatively tiny amount of tax it pays on the advertising revenue generated in said countries .  Before you say anything , of course , companies should and do pay tax on their profits , not revenues .  But Google , like many other multi-national corporations , uses elaborate techniques such as " transfer pricing " to effectively shift its profits from relatively high taxing jurisdictions to lower tax ones ( in its case Singapore , but Ireland is also popular ) .  Company restructure  To its credit , on Friday last week Google announced a restructure and said it would count some of is in response to laws passed by the government at the start of the year .  Apple , the most valuable company on the planet , is a similar case . It makes products that genuinely changed society and that people are ( perhaps unhealthily ) obsessed with .  It 's incredible turnaround under Steve Jobs will be taught in business schools for decades .  Yet it also has suffered criticism for its sophisticated tax-minimisation schemes .  " Total political crap " was how Apple CEO Tim Cook famously described criticism of the company on tax in an interview with 60 Minutes last year . " There 's no truth behind it . Apple pays every tax dollar we owe . "  Finally , how about Atlassian ? The Sydney-born software company also seems to be involved in these shenanigans .  ( Update : the company said in a statement that all licenses purchased in Australia are processed through its Australian entity , and changes on customer statements are due " simply due to a transition to another credit card processor " ) .  moved its official statutory corporate headquarters to the UK where the corporate tax rate is 20 per cent , lower than the 30 per cent rate here in Australia where it is nominally from , and lower than the rate in the US ( 35 per cent ) where it is listed .  At the time it explained that decision as being designed to move it closer to its global investor base , but industry observers are sceptical .  Investor concerns  Of course all companies have a fiduciary responsibility to their shareholders . Call me naive but I 'm not entirely convinced investors would revolt over a few extra percentage points of tax , since many high-growth tech stocks are priced based on their revenue growth and potential rather than their trailing profits .  To be clear , much of the blame for this mess should rest with governments for poorly designed tax systems .  But it 's also worth asking the question : why is tax avoidance so common in tech ?  Tech companies tend to hoard cash , because they operate in an ) has been hard to come by .  Tax avoidance , which again is entirely legal , may also reflect cultural change and the ( increasingly dominant ) libertarian streak in the industry . And perhaps the issue here is that tax avoidance is endemic in multinational business , not just tech ?