Malthouse: Pies did not need Bucks' list overhaul
http://www.sen.com.au/news/afl/05-16/malthouse-pies-did-not-need-bucks-list-overhaul

afl  malthouse : pies did not need bucks ' list overhaul  collingwood 's list did not need a major overhaul after nathan buckley became coach in 2012 and were on the verge of a mini-dynasty , says mick malthouse .  the former magpies premiership coach says that buckley 's sweeping changes to the club were n't necessary .  " i thought the club was on the verge of a mini-dynasty because it was one of the youngest premiership sides in recent history . i thought we were had a pretty good side , " malthouse said on sen breakfast .  " heath shaw was one of the best and fairest at greater western sydney last year . ( sharrod ) wellingham played in a grand final last year .  " if you want players out and you bring players in , you bring them in to make it your own side and that 's your prerogative . whether or not that 's the right thing , history will show whether it is right or wrong . "  however he understands would have .  " i think when nathan buckley took that job over , that was his side . he had to do it how he wanted to do it , " said malthouse .  malthouse also touched on the pressure surrounding other coaches in the afl , particularly suns coach rodney eade .  he says that guy mckenna 's sacking from the suns was a mistake for a club that needed stability in its formative years .  " really they have done nothing in that two years ( since mckenna 's sacking ) , yet he was an instigator in getting that side in a position where he had some terrific young men coming through and they just needed to settle and they have n't gone with it , " malthouse said .  the three time premiership coach believes that each coach currently facing scrutiny needs to be assessed individually .  " i do n't necessarily think you should always attack the coach . i think everyone should be looked at realistically and have a close look at what is really taking place at .  " realistically , there are sides who are going to be certainties in the eight and there is going to be those that go from say fifth to tenth and it 's only a minor adjustment of losing a couple of key players ( that hurts their chances of playing finals ) .  " i know what it was like at carlton last year . our best and fairest winner was bryce gibbs the previous year . he hurt his shoulder in the first game and then daisy thomas went down . all of a sudden your plans of being able to dominate the middle or have some capacity in the middle to win games of football evaporate pretty quickly .  " i think instead of jumping over and on top of these blokes , we need to examine why some of these things are taking place . "