Budget cuts make news at ABC
http://www.psnews.com.au/aps/505/news/budget-cuts-make-news-at-abc

Culture &amp; Lifestyle  Creating a healthy work-life balance for the public sector is a critically important role for PS News , as this entertaining rundown of the cultural and lifestylish shows . After all , your mental health is as important as ours ...  Budget cuts make news at ABC  The Director of News at the Australian Broadcasting Corporation ( ABC ) has outlined a range of measures to be taken to continue providing a high-standard news service in the face of significant funding cuts in the recent Budget .  Announcing the initiatives , Director of News , Gaven Morris said the reduction from $20 million a year to $13.5 million would require additional savings measures .  " In the process of renewing the funding for a further three years , we prioritised local and regional coverage and State digital services , " Mr Morris said .  He said as a consequence , the State digital teams , suburban bureaus and regional reporting and operational resources would not be affected .  " We now propose making reductions with the smallest .  " Savings that do n't have an impact on jobs -- mostly in additional commissioning and operational budgets -- have been targeted . "  Mr Morris said , however , that some impact on jobs and production was inescapable and about 30 positions would be affected .  Service announces savings measures  " Consequently , we anticipate there would be 14 people leaving , " he said .  " Of these , 10 are potential redundancies and four are contracts linked to the tied funding , which would not be renewed . "  Mr Morris said among the main proposals , ABC Fact Check would close as a separate unit , with two positions going , three positions reassigned elsewhere in the News Division and three positions being transferred to the Interactive Digital Storytelling Team to form a new unit called ABC Interactive and Data .  He said five positions from the National Reporting Team would be impacted , with a net loss of four positions in Sydney , Perth , Melbourne and Canberra , and a position in Brisbane reclassified .  Mr Digital newsroom and the Interactive Digital Storytelling Team in Brisbane .  He said NewsRadio would lose three positions provided under the tied funding and the network desks would be merged , resulting in a reduction of three positions on the Production Desk , in response to the loss of tied funds and for operational reasons .  " We are merging the production and news-gathering desks ahead of the creation of a national newsroom later this year , " Mr Morris said .  " This is a difficult time for us as a news team and it is particularly painful for our colleagues who are directly affected . "