Atop Everest: Frozen bodies keeping an eternal post at the roof of ...
http://www.theage.com.au/victoria/atop-everest-frozen-bodies-keeping-an-eternal-post-at-the-roof-of-the-world-20160523-gp1w9a.html

What is altitude sickness ?  The fierce winds and thick frost freeze them in time . Instant rigor mortis . The dead keeping an eternal post atop the roof of the world .  Maria Strydom , who died on a climb to the summit of Mount Everest , with her husband , Robert Gropal . Photo : Facebook  About 200 bodies lie unburied on the mountain 's side .  Advertisement  Maria Strydom , a Melbourne climber , university lecturer , wife , is now among their number .  It is unclear if her body will be brought down . Less than a fifth are -- the cost , in terms of resources and the risk to others ' lives , is often judged too high .  ' Green Boots ' was the name given to the unidentified corpse of a climber that became a landmark on the main Northeast ridge route of Mount Everest . Photo : Supplied  Maria -- sometimes self-styled as Marisa -- died after severe altitude sickness caused her brain to swell . She and her Gropel , a vet in Melbourne 's north-east , has been evacuated by helicopter from Camp 2 and is now in Kathmandu . His parents flew from Melbourne to Kathmandu on Monday to be with their son , who is battling a build-up of fluid in his lungs , known as a high altitude pulmonary oedema .  The journey to the top of Everest is sign-posted by the marks of the dead , and oftentimes by the bodies . The vast majority lie within the " death zone " , the final 400 metres to the top .  A line of climbers on the Lhotse Face , Mount Everest . Photo : Christian Kober  More than 4000 people have climbed Everest 's 8848 metres since it was first attempted in 1905 . According to the Himalayan Database , death rates on the mountain are plummeting - down below 5 per cent , thanks to the advent of modern mountain gear .  The database estimates that on average almost seven people have died climbing the peak each year in the most recent decade .  Between 1950 and falls and avalanches . However , above 8000 metres , inside the death zone , the chances of dying from altitude sickness increase significantly .  Mountaineers on Everest . Photo : AP  Nineteen died at base camp in an earthquake in 2015 that temporarily closed the mountain and killed and another 8000 people in elsewhere in Nepal . In 2014 , 15 sherpas died in an avalanche on the slopes .  ' Green Boots ' is among the more famous dead . A bright pair of green ski shoes sticking out of a cave , at 8500 metres . First seen in 2001 , in 2015 , the BBC mounted an investigation to identify the body , eventually naming a young Indian climber , Tsewang Paljor , as the owner of the distinctive boots . However , other theories abound as to the true identity of the dead climber .  In 2014 , the green boots disappeared , presumed buried in the snow .  Yet some suggest the body was blown down the mountain . That has been known to happen .  Hannelore Schmatz 's her backpack with her eyes wide open , for much of the 80s and 90s , her hair blowing in Everest 's gale-force winds .  They may have also seen Francys Arsentiev 's flag-draped body . She reached the summit in 1998 , but became separated from her husband and climbing partner on the descent , and died . In 2007 , a climber who had been present during her death scaled the mountain again so he could cover her prone body with an American flag .  On the way there , Dr Strydom and her husband might have passed through " Rainbow Valley " , named after the number of corpses in bright climbing jackets .  Determined to reach the top as a cyclone approached , Dr Strydom 's small party headed for the summit in darkness .