Surge in exports to flatter national accounts as terms of trade plunge
http://www.afr.com/news/economy/surge-in-exports-to-flatter-national-accounts-as-terms-of-trade-plunge-20160531-gp7ueg

Australia 's economic growth is being almost entirely driven by a massive surge in exports last quarter which have only partially been offset by another collapse in the terms of trade to its lowest level in 11 years .  Rising shipments of iron ore and coal helped offset plunging commodity prices during the March quarter , narrowing the current account deficit to $20.8 billion from $22.6 billion in the fourth quarter , the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported on Tuesday .  So-called net exports will add 1.1 percentage points to gross domestic product growth in the March quarter , the bureau said , which is far above the 0.7 percentage point contribution forecast by economist .  The data supports warnings from Treasurer Scott Morrison that the domestic economy remains fragile , with imports of consumer goods falling 1 per cent in the quarter . Capital goods imports - which are a useful gauge of business investment - fell 8 per cent .  The dollar rallied sharply after the figures were published to US72.19 ? from around US71.94 ? .  " What we export deal , a key part of our economic plan as we diversify from our economy and we move to one that is less dependent on the mining construction boom . "  " I draw your attention to the very strong growth in services exports , which of course includes tourism up 6.1 per cent over the quarter and 14 per cent over the year , " Mr Turnbull said .  Related Quotes  Company Profile  Total exports surged 4 per cent in volume terms - but when adjusted for tumbling commodity prices they actually fell by 6.3 per cent .  Iron ore and other minerals shipments were up 6 per cent in volume terms , while prices fell 9 per cent . Coal volumes were up 5 per cent but down 8 per cent when adjusted for prices .  The figures confirm that the nation 's four-year collapse in nominal gross domestic product continued in the first quarter of 2016 , depressing profits , wages and government revenues . Absent the boost from volume measures of exports , the economy remains weak .  Ahead 's national accounts will show economic growth slowed to 2.7 per cent from 3 per cent in the first quarter . Quarterly growth stalled at 0.6 per cent .  Adam Boyton , an economist at Deutsche Bank , forecast after the figures that gross domestic product probably rose 0.8 per cent in the quarter and 2.9 per cent from a year earlier .  " We think there needs to be a shift in focus away from the mining/ non-mining transition , " Mr Boyton said .  " In our view the key challenge facing the economy ( and analysts and policy makers for that matter ) revolves around the low productivity , low wages and low inflation environment we seem to have settled in. "