Gordon to decide if he wants to resign: Trad
http://www.skynews.com.au/news/national/2016/06/03/gordon-to-decide-if-he-wants-to-resign--trad.html

Gordon to decide if he wants to resign : Trad  Queensland 's acting premier says it is up to controversial MP Billy Gordon to decide if he should resign from parliament following his drink driving charge .  Jackie Trad would not be drawn on her personal opinions about Mr Gordon 's political future at a press conference in Toowoomba , west of Brisbane , on Thursday .  ' What he decides to do in terms of his seat in parliament will be entirely up to him . '  A drink driving conviction would not affect Mr Gordon 's position in parliament and other MPs have retained their seats long after similar incidents , including former Labor MP Karen Struthers , who went on to be a minister in the Bligh government .  Mr Gordon , who is one of a handful of crossbenchers to control the balance of power in state parliament , was pulled over on the Kennedy Highway near Kuranda , north of Cairns , just before 11pm on Wednesday .  It is alleged he returned a blood alcohol 's licence at the time .  He was charged with drink driving and driving without a licence .  The Cook MP released a statement on Thursday which stated there was ' no excuse ' for his decision to get behind the wheel but said he 'd been affected by a recent death in the family .  ' I remain focused on my role and my passion for representing the people of Cook , ' he said .  ' At a time when my community needs me , I allowed personal life matters to cloud my judgment . '  Mr Gordon has been issued with a notice to appear in Mareeba Magistrates Court on June 27 .  Mr Gordon won the seat of Cook , which takes in Port Douglas , Cape York and the Torres Strait , at the 2015 election as a Labor member , helping the party to form a minority government .  But he was forced out of the party over domestic violence accusations from a former partner , of which he was later cleared , and has remained a key relying on his vote to pass legislation