NSW wild weather forces hundreds to evacuate
http://www.skynews.com.au/news/top-stories/2016/06/05/nsw-wild-weather-forces-hundreds-to-evacuate.html

nsw wild weather forces hundreds to evacuate  an urgent evacuation warning has been issued for low-lying parts of a southern sydney suburb .  the ses is advising people around woronora , east of cronulla , to pack medicines , important documents , spare clothing and mementos and leave the area by 11pm on sunday .  " do not delay your evacuation . roads will be congested or closed , " the ses warns .  " you could become trapped and need rescue . remaining in flooded areas is dangerous and may place your life at risk . "  the warning has been issued after the woronora flooded to dangerous levels on sunday evening and will stay in place until authorities deem the area safe .  earlier on sunday , residents in low-lying parts of milperra and east hills were told to leave home within three hours as the storm continues to hammer sydney .  nearby chipping norton was also evacuated and a major flood warning has been issued for the upper reaches of the nepean river .  about 70 recorded at ingleburn .  one woman has been charged with drink-driving after she was rescued from flood waters in the illawarra region , police say .  emergency services minister david elliott has warned people not to take the risk .  ' you would n't walk into a bushfire so why would you drive into floodwaters ? ' he asked reporters in sydney .  according to ausgrid , 25,000 homes are without power and they hope most homes in sydney 's east and southwill be restored tonight with 700 homes at bundeena to be restored in the morning .  ausgrid workers are facing strong winds and fallen trees across the network as they work to restore power , a spokesperson said in a statement.but the biggest concern for authorities is the surf , with a 12-metre wave recorded at botany bay on sunday .  abnormally high tides are predicted all along the state 's coast and five to seven-metre waves may cause erosion and sea water flooding of low lying areas .  the storm is expected to clear sydney on sunday night but will smash another 100mm on the already-soaked region , before moving south towards tasmania .