A 3D Tour Of The International Space Station For All Of Us Wannabe ...
http://www.gizmodo.com.au/2016/06/a-3d-tour-of-the-international-space-station-for-all-of-us-wannabe-astronauts/

A 3D Tour Of The International Space Station For All Of Us Wannabe Astronauts  Video : There 's no shortage of footage showing what life aboard the International Space Station is like , but unless you 've had a chance to spend some time there , the ISS ' sprawling and ever-expanding layout can be confusing . To help make better sense of it , the European Space Agency has created a narrated video tour of the space station -- and it 's in 3D .  Please enable JavaScript to watch this video .  Is it the same as actually spending a few months aboard the ISS ? Not even close . But for most of us , it 's probably as close as we 'll ever get to experiencing life aboard our planet 's first orbiting outpost .  Tags  Discuss  um about Skylab ? and MIR ? ISS is definitely the biggest and best but is also definitely NOT the " first " I know it seems like a small point , but both Skylab and MIR paved the way space chat i reckon .  Trending Stories Right Now  Microsoft 's Surface laptop-tablet hybrid has gone through a huge number of small , often unnoticeable tweaks in its journey from the original Surface Pro of 2013 to the current Surface Pro 4 . While the tablet itself gets a lot of attention for the evolution of its kickstand and touchscreen and angular slate design , the humble Type Cover , a nearly mandatory accessory , does n't get as much love . Microsoft went to pains , though , in the creation of the Signature Edition version of the Type Cover -- a slim , slick , refined piece of hardware that represents the best of Surface and of Microsoft itself .  Over the past four winters , we 've tested more than 30 pairs of touchscreen gloves while moving half a ton of tree stumps , ice climbing , standing in a walk-in fridge for nearly three hours , and simply walking and biking around town . The Moshi Digits are easy to type with and should keep most people 's fingers toasty , though we also involves a trade-off between manoeuvrability and warmth .