Life Through a Lens: Monaco Grand Prix
http://www.espn.com.au/f1/story/_/id/15945872/life-lens-monaco-grand-prix

Life Through a Lens : Monaco Grand Prix  F1 photographer Mark Sutton talks ESPN through some of his favourite shots from the Monaco Grand Prix .  Sign him up  Sutton Images  The charity football match is always a good event to kick off the Monaco weekend . Fernando Alonso was the star of the whole thing , of course , with his free kick which was picked up by all the news channels . This shot is of that kick , he curled it over the wall like a pro !  I do n't cover football , never have except from this match every year , but I quite enjoy doing it as it is something quite different to snapping an F1 event . It 's nice to see the drivers having fun in a unique environment , they actually got kicked around a bit by the pro team ! Leicester City boss Claudio Ranieri was there as well -- it 's funny actually , he was there last year without a job and this year he was there as a Premier This is what Monaco is all about , people associate it with the beautiful and the glamorous and this picture manages to get all of that into one shot . These girls were here for most of the race and it provided a good shot with the backdrop of Lewis Hamilton and Daniel Ricciardo fighting for the lead at Nouvelle Chicane with the yachts in the background . Of course , the key is to get cars in to get the whole shot perfect and that 's why I like this one . We tried to get the girls to wave up to us but they were too busy taking pictures of each other to pay much attention !  Dickie bow  Sutton Images  This is the Amber Lounge fashion show before Monaco and Daniel Ricciardo had showed up a bit late . They get measured for their tailored suits and have a load of make-up done , it 's the full treatment . Ricciardo was late so he was running around getting sorted out and then he could n't put his dickie bow on ! I managed to do n't know if he 'd ever put one on before . I do n't know if anyone else was there from Red Bull , he seemed to be there on his own , but the team loves this sort of thing as it promotes the brand . You can tell Ricciardo enjoyed himself ; he did a bit of a dance with the singer on stage with all the energy he usually has .  Lewis and the Biebs  Sutton Images  I had a lot of backlash on this on Instagram , abuse for Justin Bieber and Lewis Hamilton . They seem to be quite polarising figures . A lot of people were asking why he was there and why Hamilton gave him the champagne before celebrating with the team , all this stuff . To be honest , at first I thought it was Eminem ! We saw a quick glance of him on the big screen and it was only when he wandered past us on the grid that we realised who it was .  It was a bit strange for Bieber to just be trying to engage with a younger audience and seeing them both enjoying a pally moment was something a bit different and a reminder of Lewis ' fame away from the sport . If there 's a place to watch F1 it 's Monaco -- it 's hard not to be impressed with F1 cars when they are flying around the circuit , so close to the wall , so I 'm sure Bieber had a good time .  Blessed  Sutton Images  Lewis often says he feels " blessed " and he made the most of it on the podium , pointing to the sky and doing the crucifix type shot when celebrating . I guess he was blessed , a bit , because he would n't have won that race without Red Bull messing up their pit stop . It 's a special place for him , like it is with all the drivers , and he had waited since 2008 to win there again . It was also that 44th win he 's been waiting eight races to claim and cut a big gap to Nico Rosberg for both Hamilton and to the 2016 title fight as a whole .