Demons too good for Freo in the Top End
http://www.espn.com.au/afl/story/_/id/16919487/melbourne-demons-outclass-fremantle-dockers

four goals from star forward jesse hogan have helped melbourne to a 32-point afl win over fremantle at tio stadium in darwin .  in steamy top end conditions on saturday night , the demons set up the 12.15 ( 87 ) to 8.7 ( 55 ) win with a dominant first half .  jack watts booted three goals in the first term as his side leapt to a 29-point lead at the first break , with melbourne stretching that lead to 50 points in the third quarter before the dockers mounted a belated challenge .  demons skipper nathan jones inspired with 35 possessions , while former captain jack grimes excelled in his first senior game of the season with 32 disposals .  dom tyson and jack viney were also prominent around the stoppages , where max gawn dominated with 43 hit outs , while tom mcdonald was outstanding at the back with 31 touches and 10 marks .  freo 's lachie neale impressed with 33 disposals , but the dockers came out on the wrong side of a lopsided 465-329 possession count a side that squandered late opportunities to close the gap further .  photo by robert cianflone/getty images  the win snaps a run of four losses in a row in darwin for the demons and breaks a seven-match losing streak against fremantle .  melbourne improved to a 7-8 record with the result as they prepare to take on st kilda next week , while the dockers remain mired in the bottom three with a 3-12 record .  both sides emerged with injury concerns , oscar mcdonald was on crutches after the game with an ankle injury and fremantle skipper david mundy suffered a concussion .  lachie weller was reported in the third quarter after he clattered into jayden hunt high while the demon was bent over to gather the ball .  " the first half we felt was really good and then conditions changed a fair bit as we expected ... it was pretty wet and slippery , " melbourne coach paul roos said .  " it 's good to have a win up here and it 's good to have a win over freo a lot more to like than dislike about the game . "  fremantle coach ross lyon was disappointed with his side 's early effort coming off their bye .  " it 's not ideal ... i 'm really disappointed , " lyon said .  " we came with higher expectations but we could n't get near them in the first half , but at least we balanced ( things ) up in the second half .  " but when the game was up for grabs we just looked right off the pace . "