Andy Murray must seize opportunity to make history in 'different' final
http://au.eurosport.com/tennis/wimbledon/2016/andy-murray-must-seize-opportunity-to-make-history-in-different-final_sto5680690/story.shtml

The challenge of winning Wimbledon this year has been a " different " one for Andy Murray , but he has to seize this golden opportunity to make history , writes Dan Quarrell at Wimbledon .  The contrast between Murray 's campaign at SW19 this year and in 2013 when he beat Novak Djokovic to end the 77-year wait for a British champion has been stark , but he is still ultimately aiming for the same result .  Aside from the fact that he had to beat his Grand Slam final nemesis in the final , the sheer enormity of ending the much-publicised drought weighed more heavily on his shoulders than anyone could imagine .  The tension that was so palpable during the final in 2013 was something that can not possibly be replicated on Sunday , purely because the circumstances and context will be so wildly different -- for Murray and fans alike .  After cruising past Tomas Berdych on Friday , the world number two admitted that hunting his second title on the famous grass against Milos Raonic bears little resemblance  " It 's obviously an opportunity , " Murray said . " I put myself in a position to try and win the event again . It 's someone new that I 'm playing against in the final .  " But Milos is a very tough opponent . He 's played very well on the grass this year and has earned his right to the final by beating one of the best , if not the best player , ever at this event . So he deserves to be there .  " Obviously it 's the first time I 'll play a slam final against someone that is n't Roger or Novak . So that 's different . "  Raonic and Federer shake hands at the net - AFP  Different , but not without pressure ; a less formidable opponent , but not without a serious threat .  " It is assumed that there is more pressure on Murray this time because he is expected to beat Raonic ; but on the contrary , he has already climbed this mountain , while his opponent is serene progress Murray enjoyed against a flat and despondent Berdych on Friday reflected the calm that has been apparent throughout his campaign -- something which has not come as a coincidence for the Brit now that he is back with coach Ivan Lendl .  " I do n't think it 's a coincidence , " Murray said . " I obviously had the best years of my career with him .  " I wanted to work with Ivan again to try to help me win these events . That 's the goal . "  Lendl helped guide Murray to his two Grand Slam titles -- at Flushing Meadows in 2012 and Wimbledon a year later -- and the effect of their reunion has been clear . His assured presence has given Murray that extra confidence , that extra security .  While Raonic is coming off a gruelling five-set win over Roger Federer , Murray sauntered into Sunday 's showpiece with Berdych unable to match the class and intensity of his opponent .  The world number two may have the pressure of being the favourite on Sunday enjoyed since reuniting with Lendl then there is little doubt that his 11th major final will bring him a third Grand Slam title .  After suffering three Grand Slam final defeats since his triumph at Wimbledon three years ago , this " different " opportunity may represent a hugely significant shift for Murray , who is desperate to prove that he can still be a winner on the biggest stages of all .