Ten skills you should practise every day
http://www.news.com.au/finance/work/careers/ten-skills-you-should-practice-every-day/news-story/2d4349889ba559fe8b41e5bf073df699

here are 10 soft skills you should focus on , why they 're important to you , and how to practise them daily .  1 . practise gratitude  why ?  * it trains your brain to focus on positive things and makes you think of what you already have in your life as opposed to what you do not .  * it keeps you grounded in your personal life so you are less focused on what others are doing with theirs , which is a huge waste of time and wo n't help you get any closer to your personal goals .  how to practise it ?  * each morning , take five minutes to write down or say aloud three things you are grateful for having in your life right now . it can be something as simple as having a roof over your head , a warm bed to sleep in , food in your fridge , clean running water and electricity , or a great relationship with a family member , a partner or a friend .  or friend , emphasise which of their qualities you are grateful for ( they 're warm , gracious , kind , loving , incredibly funny ) .  2 . keep a positive mindset  why ?  * it helps you manage life 's challenges better .  * it also helps you enjoy life more .  * it puts you in proactive mode ( life is what you make of it ) instead of in reactive mode ( life is what happens to you ) .  how to practise it ?  * apply basic principles of positive psychology to the way you lead your life , so that you can feel a more positive impact on your attitude , your motivation , and your relationships with people .  can positive thinking turn around a bad week ? 4:23  we 've all had bad days and , worse yet , bad weeks . wsj 's sue shellenbarger joins lunch beak with tanya rivero and discusses how we can reverse the momentum when having a bad week . photo : getty  april 27th 2016   why ?  * it helps you grow as a human being .  * you learn to stretch yourself beyond your comfort zone .  * you learn to manage change better in your life .  how to practise it ?  * learn the difference between a fixed mindset ( believing that our qualities are set in stone ) and growth mindset ( believing that our qualities are things we can cultivate through our efforts , in other words we can change and grow ) .  * read carol dweck 's bookmindset : the new psychology of successto understand how the view we adopt for ourselves ( either with the fixed or growth mindset ) can profoundly affect the way we lead our life .  4 . respect boundaries , both yours and those of others  why ?  * it shows that you can both give and command respect .  * it allows you to have time to do what 's important to you , and to understand that others need to have that time too .  * it acknowledges the it ?  * do n't always answer the phone ; screen your calls and call back when the time is right for you .  ask your friends if they want to spend time with you at a certain time , instead of just assuming that any time is fine .  * block off time and let others know when you 're busy , so that you do n't get interrupted when you need to focus on your work or your studies .  americans over are 30 more miserable than ever2:36  for the first time ever adults 18 to 29 are happier than those over 30 . what is leading to such unhappy americans ? marketwatch 's catey hill has all the details on lunch break . photo : getty  * you get to know the people around you better by focusing on their emotions , their goals , their concerns , their passions .  * by getting to understand those around you better , you can learn what it takes to become a good friend , a better sibling , parent , or partner questions to get others to share what 's on their mind .  * look for non-verbal cues to check if they 're nervous ( so you can help calm them down ) , feeling down ( so you can find out if you can help them feel better ) , worried about something ( so you can help them solve a problem they 're dealing with ) .  * share the excitement : be present when there are good news to share , a pleasant experience to enjoy , a good story or joke to laugh to .  remember to be curious , listen and be true to yourself.source:getty images  6 . listen  why ?  * when you open up the space for others to talk , you can learn something you may not otherwise find out .  * it can help you understand and see your environment in a different light .  * it can help you be a better observer of people , situations , events , ideas .  * be patient : wait for cues when it 's a get others ' attention instead of having your voice get lost in the chatter .  7 . provide something of value to others  why ?  * because you will feel it gives more purpose to your work .  * because it will give more meaning to everything that you do .  * because you will understand that you 're part of a bigger picture , much more important than just you .  how to practise it ?  * ask yourself every day : how am i providing value to others ?  * identify your strengths : which skill do you possess that can be useful to help someone do something ?  * find out what someone needs help with : how can you help them solve a challenge , problem , or task ?  8 . be curious !  why ?  * it helps you understand the world better .  * it improves your ability to learn new things .  * it keeps your mind active and your brain engaged .  how to practise it ? how things work , why they work that way , why people think what they do , why things matter .  * observe the world : sit on a bench in a park and look at everything around you ( people 's interactions , animals , nature ) . listen to the sounds that surround you . be fully aware of the present moment .  * read books to open up your mind and learn new things .  9 . be true to yourself  why ?  * you stay in touch with your values : it 's the unique blend of how you were raised , your cultural values , your religion , your spiritual practice , what you believe to be just , and the rules you live by as well as the ones you 've created for yourself .  * you save time : when you 're true to yourself , you do n't waste time coming up with excuses not to do what is really important to you -- your goals , your aspirations , where you want to go in your to practise it ?  * let your values help you make important life decisions : staying in a job or quitting it , choosing a partner to share your life with , selecting your inner circle of friends to trust , reacting to events that are difficult and challenging but necessary to experience .  * build your critical thinking skills : as you learn new things , select what is important to you ( based on your own personal goals , values , and priorities ) and figure out what you can learn from it .  * be careful when taking advice from others and ask yourself these questions : does the advice align with my personal values ? how would i benefit from following it ? what do i want to get out of it : approval , knowledge , a shortcut to solving a problem , or to be liked and have more friends ?  10 . strive for excellence  why ?  * it keeps you on your toes so that you do n't remain stagnant in your studies , your work , helps you grow your skills , your strengths , your knowledge .  * it keeps you focused on making progress by consistently working on mastering something that is important to you .  how to practise it ?  * when you start something , do n't just do it halfway : be consistent in your efforts and keep going until you complete it .  * find ways to improve : do n't just repeat behaviour that does n't give you the results you want .  * read robert greene 's bookmastery : it debunks the myth that it takes a genius with innate talent to produce work of timeless quality . you can learn how some of the biggest minds through history have dedicated themselves to doing deep work consistently over time so that they can achieve excellence and mastery of a skill they feel most passionate about .