ScHoolboy Q Dreams Of A World With "No Guns"
http://howlandechoes.com/2016/07/schoolboy-q-dreams-no-guns/

ScHoolboy Q Dreams Of A World With " No Guns "  In an interview with Montreality , ScHoolboy Q has wholly denounced guns , saying that they are the one evil he would rid the world of if he could . The artist has just released his new album Blank Face , and in spite of its aggressuve , gangsta themes , he has a lot to say about their place and responsibility in today 's world .  " N****s need to take away guns . From officers , from everybody . It should be no guns , " Q stated . That 's a pretty huge deal coming from a guy who 's arguably seen as today 's modern gangsta rapper . He 's got no shortage of tracks that discuss and even seem to glamourise gun use and ownership -- a result of having joined the Hoover Crips at the tender age of 13 . John Muir , a track from his new album Blank Face LP , addresses this pretty directly . But does n't that make his words worth all the guns , with guns as an integral part of his formative years and much of his life , and he believes that guns simply should not exist anymore . He decried rappers ' talk about guns , saying " N**** you ai n't gangsta no more , n***** you a rapper . "  Of course , Q acknowledges that his vision of a world without guns is not ever likely to come to fruition . " It 's impossible to take all the guns , " he conceded . " So , what I want is for the impossible to happen . Because it 'll never happen . But ... if they could 've never made guns , I think that 'd be a whole lot better . "  With the number of mass shootings in the USA this year alone climbing to over 130 ( including the tragic Orlando shooting at the Pulse nightclub , dubbed the deadliest mass shooting in US history ) , Q 's statements are timely and important . It 's likely that before the year is over , there will have been around the US -- last year saw 372 . The conversation surrounding gun control is reaching critical mass in the wake of the death of five police officers in the Dallas shooting , and public figures lending their support to gun restriction is always a positive thing . But the numbers keep climbing , and so far , nothing is changing . Perhaps Q is right about this being an impossible cause -- but we take our hats off to him for using his voice in the fight .