Portuguese style in Claremont at Elle et Lui
http://www.communitynews.com.au/eastern-reporter/lifestyle/portuguese-style-in-claremont-at-elle-et-lui/

do n't know your local paper ?  portuguese style in claremont at elle et lui  forget milan and paris , portugal 's porto is where it is at when it comes to fashion .  while the rest of the world is coming to discover the country most recently made famous for its uefa euro 2016 win , sister-in-laws alda ninasivinche and samantha monteiro have been immersed in the country 's style for years .  the duo , who opened their designer bag and shoe store elle et lui ( hers and his in french ) on st quentin avenue in claremont six months ago , said they were excited to share one of the fashion industry 's best-kept secrets -- portuguese leather goods -- with perth shoppers .  " sammy and i are passionate about design and fashion ; this is one of the reasons why we decided to bring some of portugal 's renowned designers to perth , " ninasivinche said .  " the idea to open a store focusing on portuguese shoes and accessories was a joint decision . that most portuguese products have and portuguese shoes in particular are the world 's best kept secret .  " they are number one in shoe manufacturing technology and hence some of the bigger high- end fashion houses are now producing their collections in portugal , including brands like prada , moschino and bally just to name a few , so for us to be able to carry some of these elite designer labels is a privilege . "  born and raised in harare , zimbabwe , but with ancestors from portugal , greece and england , monteiro said they were proud to showcase a little bit of their heritage while introducing something new and fresh to the australian fashion market .  " although we are new to the industry in australia , this has been a big part of our family for many years , " monteiro said .  " alda 's father has owned and run a shoe factory overseas , manufacturing handcrafted shoes , all led by a seasoned portuguese shoemaker . "  " with our backgrounds in design , it has been a shoe trade .  " we have translated our passion and understanding of design into fashion . "  with their designer shoes planted firmly on the ground , ninasivinche said quality over quantity was what was most important when looking for designers to stock .  this includes visits to portugal to meet designers and handpick the very best .  " one of the labels we carry has been around since 1943 and most of our designers have worked in the industry all their lives , " ninasivinche said .  " we do have the privilege of working closely with each designer and often meet with them on our buying trips to portugal .  " what people do n't know is portugal is renowned for its meticulous hand crafted goods and porto is the hub of many renowned portuguese trades , such as gold smithing , shoe makers , wine makers and fine linen crafters. "