USM enters into science research tie-up with Iran university
http://www.nst.com.my/news/2016/01/123461/usm-enters-science-research-tie-iran-university

USM enters into science research tie-up with Iran university  GEORGE TOWN : Universiti Sains Malaysia ( USM ) and Iran 's University of Science and Culture ( USC ) today agreed to establish an academic and research relationship in science research .  Both universities signed a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) today to allow students from USM and USC to exchange students to facilitate knowledge creation and transfer .  USM vice-chancellor Prof Datuk Dr. Omar Osman said the partnership would give an opportunity to bridge knowledge between local scientists and Iranian researchers .  " I strongly believe that this will generate new knowledge , disseminate goodwill and strengthen ties between institutions towards the betterment of humanity , " he said in his opening address before the signing ceremony at USM 's Glugor campus here today .  Prof Omar and USC research and technology vice-president Assistant Prof Dr Azizollah Jafari signed the MoUs .  At the same event , USM 's School of Housing , Building and Planning ( HBP ) also signed a collaborative agreement ( CA ) with builders students from the HBP to take part in projects such as building flood relief centres in Kelantan and other building projects as part of their industrial training .  PU Profile chief executive officer and director McKinley Soon and Prof Omar signed the CA to allow knowledge transfer between both parties in the future .  Sports  LONDON : With Jose Mourinho gone and Chelsea languishing , Premier League leaders Arsenal have an opportunity to assert their supremacy over their London rivals in Sunday 's encounter at the Emirates Stadium .  Lifestyle  MONTREAL : A veiled , expressionless C ? line Dion sat in silence at Montreal 's Notre-Dame Basilica on Friday as she , along with hundreds of her friends , family members and fans mourned the loss of her husband and longtime manager , Ren ? Ang ? lil .  World  TORONTO : A shooter opened fire at a high school and a second location in an aboriginal community in northern Saskatchewan on Friday , leaving five dead and two others critically injured , Canada 's prime minister said .  Business  DAVOS/GENEVA comes from the trade ministers , who will gather on Saturday for the first time since the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) closed the lid on 14 years of increasingly toxic stalemate .