Undies and condoms 'decoration' startles jogger
http://www.therakyatpost.com/news/2016/01/22/undies-and-condoms-decoration-startles-jogger/

Undies and condoms ' decoration ' startles jogger  By : Sandra Sokial  A jogger snapped photos of trees ' decorated ' with women 's undergarments with condoms attached to them while doing his rounds along a trekking site behind the Penampang Sports Complex , yesterday . -- Pic courtesy of the jogger  Adjust Font Size :  PENAMPANG , Jan 22 , 2016 :  A jogger bumped into a rather decadent decoration while running along a jogging track behind the sports complex here , yesterday .  What seemed to be colourful decorations on several trees turned out to be a number of women 's undergarments , neatly hung with packets of condoms attached to them .  The jogger , who declined to be named said that there was also a small hut nearby , which he described as uninhabited .  A check with the Penampang District Council disclosed that they had inspected the said site with the police , but no immediate action was taken .  " We received a report on the matter and inspected the site , .  " While no immediate action is taken , the council will be working closely with the police to investigate the matter , " said a spokesperson from the council 's enforcement unit .  LATEST CONTENT  " People want to lead a peaceful lives . The terrorists are short-sighted , and this is one of the causes of rampant suicide bombings . We can not solve this problem only through prayers . I am a Buddhist and I believe in praying . But humans have created this problem , and now we are asking God to solve it . It is illogical . God would say , solve it yourself because you created it in the first place.So let us work for peace within our families and society , and not expect help from God , Buddha or the governments . "  Dalai Lama , the Tibetan spiritual leader , when asked about prayers for those who died in the Paris terrorist attack , says the world must not ask God to fix man-made problems .