IGP, Ismail Sabri apply to strike out Nurul Izzah's suit
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/01/28/igp-ismail-sabri-apply-to-strike-out-nurul-izzahs-suit/

ros lboard  igp , ismail sabri apply to strike out nurul izzah 's suit  january 28 , 2016  nurul izzah will submit an objection to the attorney-general 's chambers against the igp 's and ismail sabri 's appeal .  kuala lumpur : inspector-general of police khalid abu bakar and rural and regional development minister ismail sabri yaakob have filed an application to strike out a suit by pkr vice-president nurul izzah anwar relating to allegations that she was a traitor to the country .  this matter was disclosed by counsel n surendran and latheefa koya , who represented nurul izzah , when met by reporters after case management before high court judge nor bee ariffin today .  the proceeding in chambers was also attended by federal counsel shaiful nizam shahrin , representing khalid and ismail sabri who were named as defendants in the suit .  surendran said both defendants filed their application to strike out the suit yesterday .  meanwhile , latheefa said her client would submit an objection against the attorney-general 's chambers that represented the two defendants both defendants are being sued in their personal capacity and should not be represented by the attorney-general as our client did not name the government of malaysia in her suit , " she said .  nurul izzah , who is also lembah pantai member of parliament , filed the suit on november 26 , 2015 . she alleged that khalid had uttered slanderous words against her during a media conference at the bukit aman police headquarters on november 22 , 2015 .  in her suit , nurul izzah said the libellous statements were issued several days after her photograph with jacel kiram , the daughter of jamalulail kiram who was said to have ordered and led the intrusion in sabah in 2013 , was published .  nurul izzah alleged it had portrayed her as a traitor to the country and the mastermind behind the sulu intrusion in sabah .  she also alleged that on the same day ( november 22 , 2015 ) , ismail sabri also issued slanderous words in a media conference at an event in bera , pahang that implied she was a traitor di-pertuan agong .  she said the statements by the two defendants were published and broadcast in both print and electronic media , and claimed that due to the libellous statements , she suffered serious damage to her reputation as a parliamentarian and politician .  hence , she is seeking general damages , aggravated damages , benefits , costs and other relief deemed appropriate by the court .  -- bernama  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook account to comment on this story . we welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . fmt also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.