Johor DT 1-1 Selangor (7-6 pens): Southern Tigers retain Charity ...
http://www.fourthofficial.com/2016/28121/jdt-selangor-charity-triumph-penalties/

Johor Darul Ta'azim ( JDT ) have been crowned the winners of 2016 Charity Shield after winning 7-6 on penalties over Selangor . Their triumph over the Red Giants ensured the Southern Tigers a consecutive season-opening win , after defeating Pahang 2-0 at the start of last season .  The 2015 M-League champions and the Malaysian Cup winners started the match by fielding all four of their foreign players , and JDT got the better of Selangor as Singaporean Hariss Harun scored the first goal of the match . However , Hafiz Kamal equalized with a free-kick to take the game to a penalty shoot-out .  Photo Credit : Johor Southern Tigers  The start of the match was somewhat even as both sides managed to produce a couple of attacks . However , JDT slowly took control of the tempo . New signing , Juan Martin Lucero had a glorious attempt blocked by Norazlan Razali on the 12th minute .  JDT captain Safiq Rahim then fired a shot wide off target , before having an attempt saved by the Selangor goalkeeper .  game , but the ball just missed his head by a couple of inches after a brilliant cross from S. Kunanlan . The Argentinian forward squandered another chance as his shot on goal was saved again by Norazlan Razali .  Johor DT finally took the lead just before the break , after Hariss Harun headed home from close range after a corner from Safiq Rahim to send the home fans into ecstasy .  Photo Credit : Johor Southern Tigers  The second half kicked off and immediately Selangor responded . There was a little more initiative from the away side , as Mauro Olivi curled an effort just wide ten minutes into the half .  On the 60th minute , Mohd Hafiz Kamal brought the match level after curling a sweet free-kick past Farizal Marlias in goal . His goal meant that he has now scored in the MSL , FA Cup , TM Malaysia Cup , AFC Cup and now , the Charity Shield .  As the game progressed , the tempo slowed down , though JDT showed a desire to push forward . On the throughout the last quarter of the game .  Photo Credit : Johor Southern Tigers  The referee blew the final whistle to indicate that the winners of the Charity Shield will be decided by a penalty shoot-out .  JDT won the penalty shoot-out 7-6 after Azril Nasrulhaq blasted it wide , retaining the Charity Shield that they also won last year . As far as the league table is concerned though , both sides go home with one point each .  Based in the heart of PJ , Prashant has been a spectator of sports his whole life and now seeks to bring you the latest in news and events . He is an avid adventurer as well , and can be found traversing highlands when he 's not at his weekly football games .  Here at FourthOfficial.com , you wo n't find your regular statistical detail , neither will you want your customary injury updates . What you will definitively find is the truth , completely unfiltered , presented to you by raw and opinionated threads that are weaved together into a collection of words .