Paralympian Hannah Cockroft Accuses Sportswear Giants Of ...
http://malaysiandigest.com/sports/630814-paralympian-hannah-cockroft-accuses-sportswear-giants-of-discrimination.html

hannah cockroft has accused the world 's two leading sportswear brands of discrimination after claiming the reason she does not have a kit sponsor is because she does not wear shoes during her wheelchair races .  cockroft , who is expected to be one of the stars of the paralympic games in rio after winning two golds at london 2012 and three in last year 's world championships , is the dominant figure in her sport but said adidas and nike have cited her inability to use their footwear in competition as a justification for not sponsoring her . the 24-year-old , who has cerebral palsy , has been angered by a situation she feels illustrates how disabled athletes are still fighting for greater recognition .  " the real reason ? " the paralympicsgb athlete said . " i have been told it 's because i do n't wear shoes when i compete . what do i do with that ? i wear a shirt , i wear trousers , i wear shoes on the podium when i 'm collecting a gold medal . but 's not enough . i 've been told this by nike , adidas , all the big brands . i told them it was discrimination . it is discrimination .  " some child somewhere watches every single one of us and is inspired to come into sport . they watch us and think : ' if they 're wearing that top , that 's what i 'm going to wear because if that 's what makes them go faster that 's what will make me go faster . ' that is the mindset . if able-bodied children think that when they look at jess ennis , then i 'm pretty sure disabled children must think like that when they look at me . it 's frustrating . you work as hard as you can . you kind of wonder what more can i win to make you want to sponsor me . "  nike defended its record in disability sport by pointing out it sponsors another british wheelchair racer who does not compete in its footwear , david weir , and also has deals with paralympicsgb 's aled davies , the usa 's tatyana mcfadden , lex gillette , april holmes , scout bassett , blake leeper and alana nichols , and brazil 's ver ? nica hip ? lito and fernando fernandes . the american sportswear giant designed the kit worn by great british athletes at last year 's ipc world championships in doha .  " nike has a long history of working with olympians and paralympians who do not compete in nike footwear , from olympic gold medal-winning gymnast simone biles , to six-times gold medal-winning paralympian david weir , " a nike spokesperson said . " nike works with multiple paralympic athletes through individual athlete relationships or through partnerships with federations such as usa and brazil . nike also supports aspiring paralympic athletes through sponsorship of the british athletics futures programme . "  adidas also rejected cockroft 's claims , pointing out it has designed paralympicsgb 's kit for the games . " as a sports brand we have partnerships with teams , including paralympicsgb , and individuals across both apparel and footwear , " a spokesperson said . " whilst we will not discuss number of athletes who do n't wear footwear to compete . "  yet while cockroft , who is expected to triumph in the 100m , 400m and 800m t34 events in rio , has worn adidas and nike kit while representing great britain in international tournaments , she does not have a kit deal with any company on an individual basis . that leaves her stretched in individual tournaments and during training sessions .  cockroft has had talks about kit sponsorship in the past but it is understood the companies ' offers have fallen below expectations . she has lost one race in the past four years and there is a belief she deserves a deal befitting an elite athlete . while she hopes success in rio will enhance her appeal , she finds the situation disheartening .  " it 's frustrating because it 's not my fault that i do n't wear shoes , " she said . " i still get on the track and i still go fast . it should n't really matter what 's on my feet when i 'm doing that . sponsor , that 's when you 've made it . on twitter everyone is either a nike athlete or an adidas athlete . i feel like if someone wants to have you as their athlete and wear their kit for every training session and every competition , that 's when you are a true elite athlete .  " someone is proud of what you 're doing . it 's something as silly as i do n't use my feet for my events . that ca n't be the be -- all and end -- all . i wear shoes in everyday life . i 'll wear your socks if it 's important what 's on my feet . you just have to fight for it . we 've fought for it for the last four years and have got nowhere .  " it 's back to politics , back to people not seeing us as the elite athletes that we are . it is a little bit of perception . i 'm on a billboard now so i 'm doing something right . i wish i knew the answers ourselves in people 's faces a bit more now , showing them every year that the whole team is breaking world records , getting faster , getting stronger . it 's about making people notice that now . "