UK: Anjem Choudary Jailed For Encouraging ISIL Support
http://malaysiandigest.com/world/630813-uk-anjem-choudary-jailed-for-encouraging-isil-support.html

the judge described choudary as ' calculating and dangerous ' file : tal cohen/reuters  a uk court has sentenced british cleric anjem choudary to five-and-a-half years in prison for inviting support for the islamic state of iraq and levant ( isil ) group .  choudary , 49 , was sentenced on tuesday at london 's old bailey court , following an earlier conviction of using online lectures and messages to encourage support for isil , also known as isis .  isil has been proscribed as a " terrorist group " in britain since june 2014 , making inviting support for the group a criminal offence punishable by up to 10 years in prison .  london-born choudary ran into trouble in 2014 after his name appeared on an oath declaring the legitimacy of the " proclaimed islamic caliphate state " .  choudary said the oath had been made without his knowledge .  supporters of the preacher and his co-defendant mohammed mizanur rahman - who received the same sentence - shouted " allahu akbar " ( god is great ) from the public trial heard that the pair used speeches to urge support for isil after it declared a caliphate in the summer of 2014 .  judge timothy holroyde said choudary was " calculating and dangerous " and had shown no remorse .  dressed in a white robe , choudary showed no emotion as the sentence was passed .  choudary is the former head in britain of islam4uk or al-muhajiroun , a now banned group  british police previously said that the group was suspected of being the driving force behind the 2005 london bombings , while michael adebolajo , one of the men who hacked to death british soldier lee rigby on a london street in 2013 , had attended protests choudary had organised .  the influence of the group , which was co-founded by syrian-born cleric omar bakri muhammad and called for islamic law in britain , is said to extend far beyond the uk.