PKR to gather voters nationwide to protest against redelineation
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/09/23/pkr-to-gather-voters-nationwide-to-protest-against-redelineation/

pkr to gather voters nationwide to protest against redelineation  the election commission has violated all principles provided in the constitution on a fair and just redrawing of boundaries , says azmin ali .  puchong : pkr will mobilise at least 100 voters in contentious constituencies outside selangor and penang , where it does not hold power , to protest against the " unfair " redelineation proposals by the election commission ( ec ) .  its deputy president mohamed azmin ali said this would be done before the 30-day deadline that expires on oct 14 .  " we feel the ec has violated all principles provided in the federal constitution on the redrawing of boundaries , " he told reporters after opening the rm28.9 million flyover linking the ldp to puchong utama and batu 14 here .  selangor and penang are under pakatan rakyat and both state governments and local authorities could file complaints to the ec .  the third option is for at least 100 voters to protest against ec 's suggestions .  azmin , who is also selangor menteri a threat to racial unity .  eighteen of the 22 parliamentary seats in selangor are affected .  azmin , who today celebrated his second year as mb , said the state government had sent a notice to the ec to explain the rationale for the redelineation .  " the 48-hour notice will expire tomorrow and we will begin legal action if there is no response , " he added .  opposition parties and ngos have widely condemned the redelineation and electoral boundary changes proposed by the ec on sept 14 , as being favourable to barisan nasional ( bn ) .  these include large increases in voter numbers in certain constituencies and the redrawing of boundaries which will carve out certain voting demographics and transferring them to other constituencies .  mca president liow tiong lai had also expressed concerns that the changes may lead to racial polarisation .  the bn supreme council will meet this evening and top of the agenda is to discuss the alterations to existing state and parliamentary seats .  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . fmt also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.