Sabah UMNO, BN capable of facing new party - Ahmad Zahid
http://english.astroawani.com/politics-news/sabah-umno-bn-capable-facing-new-party-ahmad-zahid-117442

sabah umno , bn capable of facing new party - ahmad zahid  september 23 , 2016 11:09 myt  ahmad zahid : we will not deny the right of malaysians to engage in politics in order to translate the spirit of democracy practised by the government . - fotobernama / file  new york : deputy prime minister datuk seri dr ahmad zahid hamidi is confident that sabah umno and barisan nasional ( bn ) under the leadership of chief minister datuk seri musa aman will remain strong and are able to counter any attacks from the opposition .  he said this in response to reports that former umno vice-president datuk seri mohd shafie apdal is taking over a political party in sabah for a platform to contest in the coming general election .  ahmad zahid regarded mohd shafie 's intention as " strange " and likened it to the action by a former umno president and bn chairman , together with a former umno deputy president and bn deputy chairman , in setting up a new party recently .  " but , in politics in order to translate the spirit of democracy practised by the government , " he told malaysian journalists here , thursday .  the important thing , he said , was for the umno and bn machinery to be strengthened to face the 14th general election .  " we will be fair and registrar of societies ( ros ) will be professional in its action , like when we register ppbm ( parti pribumi bersatu malaysia ) , " said ahmad zahid , who is also home minister .  he is in new york , leading the malaysian delegation to the 71st session of the united nations general assembly .  mohd shafie , who is former rural and regional development minister , was reported to have been to the office of the ros in putrajaya to discuss the take-over of a sabah-based party and to change its name and logo .  he left umno on july 4 this year after his membership in the party was suspended on june 24. -- bernama