Scholar calls for debates on fatwas
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/10/16/scholar-calls-for-debates-on-fatwas/

Scholar calls for debates on fatwas  Opinions have to be subjected to scholarly discourse , says a representative of Nahdatul Ulama .  KUALA LUMPUR : A fatwa issued by any individual or group is only an opinion and need not be turned into law , according to a scholar representing Nahdatul Ulama , the world 's largest Islamic organisation .  This was why , he said , it was important for scholars to have debates on such issues .  He spoke of a current controversy in Indonesia related to the bid by Jakarta Governor Basuki Tjahaya Purnama to defend his post in elections in February .  He noted that a group of religious leaders , including those from the Indonesia Ulama Council , were saying that Muslims are not allowed to vote for officials who happen to be Jewish or Christian .  Purnama , more fondly known as Ahok , is a Christian .  Zuhairi said he and many other scholars were in disagreement with those telling Muslims to reject Ahok , who , he added , had a track have criticised ulamas holding such views , " he said . " They have their own views , but other ulamas , like myself , also have our views . "  On October 13 , thousands of Jakarta citizens participated in a demonstration led by a radical Islamist group , Front Pembela Islam , to protest against Ahok .  Human rights lawyer Firdaus Husni also spoke at yesterday 's symposium . He criticised Malaysian groups that would not speak up on religious issues in the belief that such matters should be handled only by recognised religious leaders .  " It should not be that way , " he said . " However , it seems that years of political propaganda have made our society one that accepts without questioning . "  Comments  Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story . We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . Please be polite and do not use swear FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  The views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.