Kiosk owners, tenants say Likas YB got it all wrong
http://www.dailyexpress.com.my/news.cfm?NewsID=113888

Kota Kinabalu : 1Borneo kiosk buyers , tenants and workers have refuted the statement made by Likas Assemblyman Junz Wong that Assistant Minister in the Chief Minister 's Department Datuk Edward Yong was the one who called for the meeting with them on Sept 1 .  According to the group 's representatives Vincent Ng and Dr Lai Shiang Yun who represented 109 people from all three groups at a meeting on Saturday , the press release by Wong , in various Chinese and English newspapers on Nov 1 and 2 , was incorrect .  " The fact is we were the ones that made the appointment to meet Yong on Sept 1 with the intention to seek his help and assistance to solve our predicament .  " We are very grateful to Yong for his time and patience when listening to our problem at the meeting room at City Hall .  " During this meeting , representatives from City Hall were also present to listen to our predicament .  " We are very thankful to Yong as he really showed the true to serve the people and solve the problem of the rakyat and not to create more problem for the rakyat .  " Maybe Wong obtained his information from an inaccurate source . "  They said Yong also did not promise anything during the meeting .  " He just listened and understood our problem and at the end of the meeting , he told us that he will study this matter and revert back to us .  " From our record , the total number of new kiosk lots already submitted by developer to DBKK for DP approval is 260 units .  " Of this 260 units , there are 118 units already sold mainly to private individuals and some companies while the rest still belong to the developer .  " Most of the 118 kiosk lots were sold by the developer to private owners with valid Sales and Purchase prepared by legal firm and duly executed by both developer and private owner and full payment has been made to the developer . "  They added the kiosk owners also faced various predicaments over the banks to serve this purchase and currently still need to service the loans even though the Development Plan ( DP ) is not approved yet .  " Some of the buyers who are retirees also used their whole life savings to buy this kiosk thinking that the future rental collected can see them through their whole life . Full payment has been made without realising that the DP has not been obtained yet .  " Besides no income , they are facing the possibility of the DP not being obtained . If this happens , all their life savings will be gone . "  On the predicament faced by the tenants and their workers , they said for some affected tenants , operating this kiosk is their only source of income to support their family .  " If the kiosks are dismantled , not only would they be affected , but their whole family too .  Besides this , there are some prominent brands and if all the kiosks are dismantled , it will create a domino effect and not just 1Borneo will be affected , industry of Sabah because some are important products and also their first outlet in Sabah . "  They said from the worker point of view , if the kiosks were dismantled , they would suddenly lose their job and their only income in a day .  As such , they hoped Wong would understand their suffering and as an elected representative , will do what Yong is doing , which is to solve the problem of the rakyat amicably .  In Wong 's Facebook biography , there is a phrase " .... join me in the fight for people who are suffering around you , fight for your family , your children , future generations and most importantly , your home . "  " Our problem now is exactly like what is mentioned in Wong 's Facebook biography .  We hope for his understanding and consideration in this matter and beg Wong to stop criticising City Hall and Yong on the matter . Let 's close this chapter and put a full stop to this . "  Daily Express is popular with readers and advertisers quality editorial contents , which are indepth , balanced and objective , as well as its independent approach to news coverage .  The paper covers a wide range of topics including international , national and local news , financial and business pages , sports ( in colour ) , entertainment and leisure , women page ( in colour ) , doctor column , student page , Hotline ( a public service ) , and others .