Where reading habit starts on baby's birth
http://www.dailyexpress.com.my/news.cfm?NewsID=113876

SHARJAH : The UAE Government has introduced a reading law which reflects its commitment to making reading top priority .  Welcoming the new regulation , the Emirates Literature Foundation noted that it outlines many crucial things .  " For example , when a baby leaves the hospital , the parents will get a knowledge brief case and a selection of books up to the age of four . They will take home with them , " CEO Isobel Abulhoul said when met at the ongoing 35th Edition of Sharjah International Book Fair ( SIBF ) , here .  Under the reading law , she said , employees in both the government sector and private organisations must be given time to read during their work days . " That 's a very good point , " she added .  According to Isobel , the UAE Government has focused on reading , given that this year 2016 is the Year of Reading .  " You now got a reading law . I think there will be a huge focus on reading which will continue published in this part of the world . And there will be more book sales not just in Arabic but also in other languages . "  The Arab World ( 22 countries ) has a population of 370 million -- 30pc is under 15 years old and 20pc between 15 and 24 years old .  Statistics from Sharjah Publishing City show that the UAE 's publishing market is estimated to be worth $233 million and expected to triple in size by 2030 .  The Arab World imports $1 billion worth of books annually . EU countries import $33 million worth of books from the Arab World , out of which $19 million is from UAE . EU countries export $288 million worth of books to the Arab World , of which $71 million worth of books are exported to the UAE .  The SIBF 2016 with the theme " Read More " is organised by the Sharjah Book Authority ( SBA ) at the Sharjah Expo Centre .  Some 1,681 publishing houses from 60 countries are participating in the 11-day event where 1400 programmes and activities cookery corner , book launch , musical puppet show , connectography , etc ) have been lined up for the occasion .  Earlier in his keynote address , His Excellency Ahmed Bin Rakkad Al Ameri , Chairman of Sharjah Book Authority ( SBA ) , highlighted the importance of the book fair and its influence on culture in the UAE , the Arab region and the wider world .  " There is no better word to describe Sharjah International Book Fair than ' Passion . ' This is because His Highness the Ruler of Sharjah has inspired and guided us to love books . Today , we are celebrating the opening of SIBF 's 35th edition , putting our imprint on the history of Arab and world cultures . Through this regionally and international acclaimed fair , we are telling the story of our deeply rooted and rich civilisation , " said Al Ameri .  He revealed the launch of the visual identity of the AED 2 million Sharjah Translation Award .  Titled " Turjuman , " the new initiative is an international award in translation and launch of the Turjuman Award is in line with the directives of His Highness Sheikh Dr Sultan bin Muhammad Al Qasimi , Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Sharjah , to promote the translation of innovative global literary works that reflect unique human intellectual and cultural outputs . The award aims to promote a flourishing translation movement , moving human intellectual work freely across linguistic and cultural boundaries , " he said .  Sheikh Dr Sultan also paid tribute to Lebanese intellectual and academic Dr Ghassan Salame , former Lebanese Minister of Culture and the SIBF 2016 Cultural Personality of the Year , in recognition of his long and distinguished career and invaluable contribution to the Arab cultural scene .  He then signed the Arabic copy of his book " Power Struggles and Trade in the Gulf ( 1620 -- 1820 ) . "  The book discusses trade in the Gulf region over 200 years and chronicles the struggles between Persian powers and other key players in the region over commerce .  The proceeds of the book will be allocated for the Big Heart Foundation Al Qasimi , wife of the Ruler of Sharjah .  Dr Ghassan thanked the Ruler for establishing Sharjah as a beacon of culture that works to unite the world .  " You are the one who has allowed Sharjah to become the lighthouse of culture between east and west .  You have attained the highest standards of science , knowledge and culture . As a writer and scholar yourself , you understand the needs of writers and because of this , you have truly transformed Sharjah into a sustainable city of culture .  You have left the region 's youth with a long-standing heritage of which they can be proud , " he said .  Daily Express is popular with readers and advertisers of all background and interests , largely because of its quality editorial contents , which are indepth , balanced and objective , as well as its independent approach to news coverage .  The paper covers a wide range of topics including international , national and local news , financial and business pages , sports ( in colour ) , entertainment and leisure , student page , Hotline ( a public service ) , and others .