Sex workers used as baby factories
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/1749862

sex workers used as baby factories  petaling jaya : sex workers are now used as " baby factories " , with syndicates capitalising on the country 's stringent adoption procedures to make a quick buck .  tenaganita coordinator aegile fernandez told thesun that this trend has taken a turn for the worse in the last three years .  this is because the pregnant women , who have been coerced into becoming " surrogate mothers " , must also continue to provide their normal sex services to clients while carrying their unborn baby .  the worry is that this can lead to problems like health issues or the baby becoming hiv-positive .  another issue is that when , for whatever reason , the baby is rejected , it goes back to the syndicate to become a victim of child trafficking or brought up to be a future sex worker .  " the babies ' fate thus hinges on uncertainty even though a ' booking fee ' has been made by potential couples to adopt them , " she said .  " kit , there are children being watched over by another sex worker . when the child is eight years old , they 're sold for sex . this is a ' long-term investment ' for the syndicates , " she said .  the whole " adoption " process begins with a word within a community that a childless couple " wants a child " . often it means adopting one outside official procedures .  this is understandable because for some couples , waiting for the official adoption documentation after two years of trudging through paperwork , interviews , and being monitored by the welfare department can be agonising .  specifics of a child include their gender , weight , health and sometimes skin colour .  for instance , a boy fetches a higher price of between rm12,000 and rm40,000 , while a girl is priced no more than rm25,000 .  the booking fee can be from rm5,000 to rm7,000 .  previously , a sex worker found to be pregnant would would be sent to the abortion clinic .  " now the syndicates send her which a doctor would provide a letter furnishing a different identity complementing the new parents , " fernandez said .  the document is then sent to the national registration department , after which a birth certificate is issued .  fernandez said it is difficult to obtain hard evidence that an exchange has been made .  however , she applauds the government for making the adoption process simpler with the adoption act amendments , allowing prospective couples to bring home their adopted child immediately instead of having to wait for the completion of the entire process before being allowed to do so .  " ( nonetheless ) , there 's a belief among some malaysians that it is better to adopt the child as an infant because they would then be able to shape the infant 's ' mentality ' , even their physical state , in a safe environment .  " this is as opposed to the other countries , where it 's considered acceptable to adopt an older child , " she said .