Baru urges S'wakians to keep up momentum for reforms
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/04/19/baru-urges-swakians-to-keep-up-momentum-for-reforms/

baru urges s'wakians to keep up momentum for reforms  opposition chief wants a stronger mandate from the people in order to maintain the momentum of positive reform and to bring about more changes for a better sarawak .  kuala lumpur : the national opposition alliance believes that its efforts in championing the interests of the people of sarawak are being noticed and some changes are taking place , said sarawak opposition chief baru bian in a statement . " what we need now is a stronger mandate from the people in order to maintain that momentum of positive reform and to bring about more changes for a better sarawak . "  should the opposition be given the mandate , added baru , it would establish the sarawak select committee on competency , accountability and transparency ( saracat ) . " it would hold hearings to investigate important issues concerning sarawak , as a means for better governance in the state . "  " we shall also move ahead to investigate allegations of graft , fraud , misappropriation , malfeasance , criminal breaches of initiate legal proceedings as a consequence for full restitution of public funds . "  baru , in inviting the people " to join hands with sarawak pkr to embark on a journey to strive for a better future for the state " , was welcoming the abolishment of the " lain-lain " category in official documentation . he also called for july 22 to be gazetted as a public holiday in recognition of self-government day .  " parti keadilan rakyat sarawak welcomes the announcement by deputy prime minister ahmad zahid hamidi to remove ' lain-lain ' from all official forms in sarawak . this is in line with the call that has been made by pkr all the while . "  " we thank putrajaya for implementing pkr 's policy and we would like to stress that the party is going to implement more policies that will benefit the people of sarawak if we are given the mandate by the people in this coming state election . "  pkr has been calling for the removal of " lain-lain " in official forms for a long time , recalled baru . " we had incorporated that pledge as part of our very first point themed sovereignty and governance . "  in the 18-point roadmap , pointed out baru , " we also put in the plan to gazette 22 july as a public holiday for sarawak in recognition of our self-government day , also known by some people as the ' independence day ' of sarawak . "  over the last five years , pkr state assemblymen had been vocal in championing the interests of sarawakians both inside and outside the state legislative assembly .  for instance , said baru , among the significant motions that the opposition tabled in the assembly was to regain sarawak 's autonomy in education through the malaysia agreement , as well as call on the state government to object to the implementation of the territorial sea act 2012 . " the act is detrimental to the interests of sarawak . "  " both motions were passed unanimously in the assembly . "  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook account to comment on this story . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . fmt also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.