AllianceDBS upgrades Padini to 'buy' on strengthening ringgit
http://www.thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2016/04/19/alliancedbs-upgrades-padini-to-buy/

business news  alliancedbs upgrades padini to ' buy ' on strengthening ringgit  kuala lumpur : alliancedbs research has upgraded its rating on padini holdings bhd to a ' buy ' recommendation as the retailer is set to benefit from the ringgit 's recent recovery against the dollar which lowers its overall inventory cost .  the research house now has a ' buy ' rating on padini 's shares with a target price of rm2.25 , representing a 16% upside from the stock 's closing price of rm1.94 on monday . as at 10:45am today , the stock had risen five sen to rm1.99 per share .  in a note today , alliancedbs said the group 's upcoming third quarter results for the financial year ending june 30 , 2016 ( q3fy16 ) should be strong as it expects padini to continue to report double digit year-on-year growth in both its revenue and bottom line .  " we are comfortable that the group is well on track to meet our revised fy16 net profit forecast of rm120mil . the group sources about 65-70% the renminbi , with the remainder in us dollar . the ringgit 's recovery against both currencies will help lower inventory cost and improve its margin in the coming quarters , " it said .  it added that padini 's earnings growth is underpinned by several factors including a attractive mix and match bundling strategy as well as 11 new store openings compared to the same period last year .  the research house said that padini 's gross profit margins in q2fy16 were dragged down by its four-day nationwide special sales promotion which accounted for 14% of its quarterly sales . with the absence of festive sales in q3 , the group 's margin should improve over this period , it explained .  alliancedbs now has a ' buy ' rating on padini 's shares with a target price of rm2.25 , representing a 16% upside from the stock 's closing price of rm1.94 on monday . as at 10:45am today , the stock had risen five sen to rm1.99 per share .