Workers hurt in collapse at building under construction
http://www.therakyatpost.com/news/2016/05/15/workers-hurt-by-collapse-at-building-under-construction/

Workers hurt in collapse at building under construction  Source : Bernama  Adjust Font Size :  PETALING JAYA , 15 May 2016 :  Six foreign workers were injured , including one seriously when part of a temporary structure of a building under construction at Persiaran Barat , Petaling Jaya , near the Taman Jaya LRT station , collapsed this morning .  In the 9am incident , the temporary structure used by the workers for slab installation works on the fourth floor of the building suddenly collapsed .  Selangor Fire and Rescue Department operations officer fire chief Mustakim Rimon said the victims comprised an Indonesian and five Bangladeshis in their 30s .  " When the incident happened , the six workers were carrying out construction work on the fourth floor of the building .  " One of the victims who was severely injured was brought out by the fire and rescue personnel , two others were saved by their friends while the other three saved themselves , " he said when met at the scene .  He said the last The victim was severely injured in the waist area and has been saved . We brought him out manually after attempts to use a crane were found to be unsuitable . "  He said the department received an emergency call at 9.56am and arrived four minutes later .  " A total of 25 members and officials from the fire stations in Section 7 , Petaling Jaya and Damansara were rushed to the location . "  Mustakim said all the victims were taken to the Universiti Malaya Medical Centre for treatment and the cause of the incident was still being investigated .  It is understood that construction work at the location have been temporarily stopped .  LATEST CONTENT  " People want to lead a peaceful lives . The terrorists are short-sighted , and this is one of the causes of rampant suicide bombings . We can not solve this problem only through prayers . I am a Buddhist and I believe in praying . But humans have created this problem , and now we are asking God to solve it . It is illogical . God in the first place.So let us work for peace within our families and society , and not expect help from God , Buddha or the governments . "  Dalai Lama , the Tibetan spiritual leader , when asked about prayers for those who died in the Paris terrorist attack , says the world must not ask God to fix man-made problems .