Europe's top swimmers descend on London ahead of Rio Olympics
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/1802171

europe 's top swimmers descend on london ahead of rio olympics  london : as the olympic games loom ever closer , europe 's best swimmers gather in london on one of the final stepping stones to rio de janeiro .  when the european championships start on monday at the london aquatics centre - which staged the swimming at the 2012 olympics - there will be just 82 days before the games start in brazil .  given the proximity , few who are competing in rio will have rested before the london meet , but are instead in heavy training , eyes planted firmly on what lies ahead in august .  two years ago in berlin , great britain topped the medal table with a haul of 24 .  prominent was 19-year-old adam peaty , a fortnight after beating olympic champion cameron van der burgh to second in the 100m breaststroke at the commonwealth games in glasgow .  peaty was a stand-out in berlin , winning four gold medals and setting a world record in the 50m breaststroke , albeit not ratified champion florent manaudou also made four visits to the top of the podium , while sweden 's sarah sjoestroem claimed three golds .  all three have had a stunning couple of years , but for peaty the summer of 2014 was when he made a deafening entrance onto the international stage .  he went on to obliterate van der burgh 's 100m world record last year in london before three gold medals at the world championships in kazan , where he and the south african went toe to toe like prize fighters , trading 50m world records as boxers trade blows .  now favourite for olympic gold , peaty has come a long way .  he told afp : " it 's only two years but i 'm going to europeans now in a completely different mindset , a completely different athlete .  " i 'm a lot more confident about where i 'm going and what i 've done to get me this far so i am looking forward to swimming this meet and i 'm not really focusing on medals or times , just me and mel ( coach mel marshall ) have already got a thing in place to hopefully just race , gladiator-style .  " we are all going to be pretty tired but that does n't mean we are going to hand the medals over , we are going to put up a good fight and see what we get . i love competing so i 'll get a little bit more energy out of myself and see what happens . "  the last time peaty competed at the aquatics centre he became the first man to go under 58 seconds for the 100m breaststroke , his time of 57.92 seconds taking 0.54secs off van der burgh 's mark in the same pool in 2012 .  a host of stars  the british olympic team are competing in london , meaning a european debut for double world freestyle champion james guy .  manaudou is joined on the french team by fabien gilot , jeremy stravius and mehdy metella , the four making up the squad that won the 4x100m freestyle world title in 2015 .  gregorio paltrinieri mysterious absence of sun yang , spearheads the italian men along with gabriele detti .  hungary 's laszlo cseh looks to add to his 12 european titles in the butterfly and individual medley events .  sjoestroem will look to add to her seven medals from berlin ahead of a much-anticipated olympics for the swede after five world medals , including two golds , in kazan .  hungary 's katinka hosszu , nicknamed the iron lady because of her gruelling multi-event schedule , has a reduced programme in london , her eyes set on claiming her first olympic medals .