Nissan says Mitsubishi deal will result in huge savings
http://paultan.org/2016/05/16/nissan-says-mitsubishi-deal-will-result-in-huge-savings/

Nissan president Carlos Ghosn , speaking to reporters after the acquisition deal was formally announced late last week , said that the deal will result in big savings from a vehicle development point of view , with aspects of design , engineering and production being shared between the two automakers . It will also provide Nissan with a quicker inroad into the development of plug-in electric vehicles , an area Mitsubishi is already involved in .  Analysts say that the buying into Mitsubishi , which comes after MMC 's fuel economy scandal surfaced last month , is a rather opportunistic move and something of a bargain , given the sum forked out to acquire a third 's share of the beleagured automaker .  Nonetheless , Mitsubishi chairman Osamu Masuko says that such a merger was inevitable , and " would have happened one day . " He added that the deal was " an important step toward rebuilding trust and stabilising our business . "  The deal will see Nissan effectively becoming the largest shareholder of MMC -- ahead of the likes of Mitsubishi UFJ -- once it is completed . Reports indicate that Nissan will have four nominees as board directors in proportion to its voting rights , and there will also be a Nissan-appointed chairman of the board .  Anthony Lim believes that nothing is better than a good smoke and a car with character , with good handling aspects being top of the prize heap . Having spent more than a decade and a half with an English tabloid daily never being able to grasp the meaning of brevity or being succinct , he wags his tail furiously at the idea of waffling - in greater detail - about cars and all their intrinsic peculiarities here .  You can either post as a guest or have an option to register . Among the advantages of registering is once a name has been registered , a guest can not post using that name . If you have an account , please login before commenting . If you wish to have a profile photo next to your name , register at Gravatar using the same e-mail address you use to comment .