CAP: Consumers end up paying more for online tickets
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2016/06/07/cap-consumers-end-up-paying-more-for-online-tickets/

he said most consumers ended up paying more than the advertised airfare , as most airlines " pre-select " optional extras , such as travel insurance and seat selection .  idris said these pre-ticked boxes or words with links were often buried in a wordy page and was easy to miss out .  when one realises the extras that have been added into the ticket price , it might be impossible to go back and uncheck the boxes , he said .  idris said those who went back and unchecked these extras might lose the low airfare offered earlier , which leaves the consumers at the losing end .  " this is an obvious catch , because what you see is probably not what you get .  " some airlines state the initial fares are merely indicators to help you make your choice , without showing miscellaneous fees -- and a fare higher than what you had bargained for .  " this statement attempts to exonerate the airline for springing last minute surprises , which is unfair to the customer , displayed " timed-out " so fast that customers did not have time to compare prices with other airlines for the best deal . those who were not tech-savvy , he said , were the biggest losers in the end .  meanwhile , idris said the transport ministry ought to emulate the uk consumer contracts regulations , where consumers could only be charged for items they choose .  " the legislators must do something to protect consumers . the nonchalance of the transport ministry on this issue is sad and worrying , " idris said .  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook account to comment on this story . we welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . fmt also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents the views of fmt.