Waiting for a photo-finish at polls
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/opinion/2016/06/18/waiting-for-a-photo-finish-at-polls/

ROS LBoard 1  Waiting for a photo-finish at polls  June 18 , 2016  Enough evidence to show that the disgruntled and the dissenters can move a significant share of votes .  FMT LETTERS  from : Dr Dzulkefly Ahmad , via email  It 's always an anxiety in trying to predict the outcome of elections , whether a general election or those taking place in between them . There are times when my predictions have been somewhat accurate , notwithstanding those occasions where I erred .  The results of today 's two by-elections are about the most complex to predict , as they may set a whole new trend in voting patterns which could either be sustained for the next general election -- or the outcome could very well be a one-off phenomenon or a flash in the pan .  The results shall be dependent on the audacity of the ' critical voters ' anticipated to translate their ' disagreement and frustration ' about their leadership , or for non-partisan voters ( aka fence-seaters ) who have been voting a genuinely fence-seaters , these include :  * the ' disgruntled ' PAS members and supporters . ( Not equal to the ' Harumanis ' as they are very much PAS members , unlike Harumanis who are bent on crossing to Amanah or simply resigning . )  * Umno 's members and supporters who , for clear reasons , are either now pro-Tun ( Dr Mahathir Mohamad ) ; or very anti-Najib for his excesses ( and thus most likely but not necessarily pro-Tun ) ; or who vehemently disagree about the selection of candidates .  There is enough evidence that this pool has sufficient reason to shift a significant share of votes from both PAS and Umno . Whether those votes will shift to Amanah and Pakatan Harapan is yet to be be seen and quantified .  The rest of the voter segments will largely be more or less the same , without much significant shift or movement .  Young voters are noted to be anti-Najib ( aka Anti-1MDB ) and anti-GST and in varying degrees in favour of Amanah being given a chance .  especially among the Chinese , and whether ' Outside Voters ' will come back and vote : the strong campaign by DAP and Pakatan should have addressed that concern .  Specifically though , the intimidation and threat by the Deputy Prime Minister , Ahmad Zahid Hamidi , about the Sekinchan fishermen that make up 25 per cent of Chinese voters , could also eat up Amanah 's Chinese vote share . Zahid 's resorting to the ' carrot and stick ' is extremely deplorable if not outright illegal . Numerous other examples abound .  Given the complex equations , it is most exciting to see whether the 13 days of campaigning by the eight-month old Amanah , flanked by the more seasoned partners of DAP and Keadilan , could stage an upset .  The involvement of Dr Mahathir Mohamad and the Selangor Menteri Besar Azmin Ali has made their respective contribution in addressing preconceived ideas particularly among certain segments of Malay voters .  Various polls and opinion pieces of analysts-academics have it that the underdog Amanah has an edge over PAS , while yet trying to narrow see a heart-throbbing photo-finish ending .  Let us all hope that the two by-elections , conducted in the blessed month of Ramadan , will not witness any untoward events .  May the best candidate win ... ( and I hasten to add , despite the huge unequal-playing field again ) .  With a firm belief in freedom of expression and without prejudice , FMT tries its best to share reliable content from third parties . Such articles are strictly the writer 's personal opinion . FMT does not necessarily endorse the views or opinions given by any third party content provider .  Comments  Readers are required to have a valid Facebook account to comment on this story . We welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . We want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . Please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . FMT also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of FMT.