Taking innovations to the market
http://www.thestar.com.my/news/education/2016/07/17/taking-innovations-to-the-market-building-matters-collecting-data-furniture-for-school-kids-complete/

education  taking innovations to the market  local innovators are stepping up their game to come up with unique ways to cut costs , boost utilisation of local raw material and improve living standards for malaysians .  universiti putra malaysia 's ( upm ) recent innovation open day ( iod ) , showcased a number of promising inventions from its faculty of design and architecture , which is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year .  the university 's innovation promotion and marketing division deputy director dr mohamad fakri zaky ja'afar said the products were created from ideas and concepts of the faculty 's lecturers .  he added that the objective of the event ( iod ) was not only to showcase the inventions , but also an opportunity to connect with the relevant industries .  " this is one of the institution 's efforts to expand its network with industries . our aim is to find commercial value for the inventions " he said .  dr mohamad fakri added that the inventions which are patented under the institution , will be new ' products ' recognised both locally and globally . many of our innovations are of high standards and have the potential to appeal to industries and the masses .  for better posture : nik aizan says that the chair his team designed will prevent pupils from slouching . inset : both the table and chair can be disassembled after use and placed into the box .  " we intend to promote these new inventions through advertisements , networking with relevant industries , and at local and international exhibitions . "  " upm 's previous innovations have brought about positive outcomes as there are companies which are already in the midst of marketing our inventions ,  " there have even been talks with japanese companies . they are interested in a number of new products that were demonstrated and displayed at the recent exhibition , " he said .  interested parties are also encouraged to contact upm 's putra science park , which is the institution 's in-house commercialisation centre that protects the intellectual property of the varsity 's innovators and inventions , he added . featured 13 inventions ranging from useful and simple creations like the froggy lamp , to more complex ones such as the independent sewerage treatment plant for decentralised water residences and more .  building matters  developed with the purpose of translating a conventional training curriculum into an interesting and serious training application , the ibs foreman is in fact , a virtual reality learning application . meant for students in the architecture or construction field , it allows for better absorption of knowledge .  dr golnar kiani , one of the co-researchers on the project , said that the ibs foreman had up to 14 design principles .  it is to ensure students using the game application retain their interest towards the subject , and are exposed to conditions of the actual industry .  " instead of forcing students to sit in classes for long periods of time and visiting construction sites where hazards are aplenty , they can just use virtual reality to learn all they need to about the field , " she said , adding that students have more fun learning in a " 's checklist ensures that the environmental , social and economic aspects are taken into consideration when buildings are constructed .  she pointed out that the basic concept of the ibs foreman is to apply the game factors , tools and context to real and actual activities that are carried out in the construction industry .  with the ibs foreman , students will get their avatar to work in a simulated construction site . they will have to construct a building from scratch based on proper building procedures .  " if they fail to do so , they have to repeat the steps correctly within a limited time frame . only then can they move on to the next stage , " she said .  " students will need to pass the test with flying colours at the end of the game .  " they will be evaluated and graded based on their results from the ibs foreman , " said dr kiani , pointing out that it is not " just a game " .  using this game application brings a string of benefits and .  according to dr kiani , it is an interesting and fun learning concept which improves accuracy on construction knowledge , improves safety , and helps retain student 's knowledge of the field .  " students have found it much more interesting than actual work , and are able to retain quite a lot of what they 've learnt from the game , " she added .  collecting data  with the use of the e-site inventory mobile application , built environment professionals and students alike now have a platform to accurately collect information from project sites .  project leader mohd johari mohd yusof said the mobile application was developed for built environment professionals to conduct site surveying and inventory . it also helps to measure an area , capture images , take notes , do rough sketches of information and ideas .  handy programme : mohd johari showing off the application which can gauge and measure a project site with speed .  " this all-in-one tool collects data accurately , and is user-friendly and intuitive . it also has high potential to be marketed mohd johari said that his team had come up with the idea following numerous complaints from students and colleagues over the numerous items they had to carry .  " built environment professionals need to take several tools and gadgets to measure an area and collect data whenever they visit a project site .  " sometimes the manual calculations may not be accurate which is why the mobile application is handy .  " it will do the work for them while monitoring data and assigning follow-up tasks to colleagues . "  he added that the usage of the mobile application also ensures that students are actually on site to carry out their assignments or tasks .  furniture for school kids  " there have been cases where students download the site information from the web and pass it off as their own . so , to get the actual axis ( measurements ) , they have to be at the site , " he explained .  mohd johari added that students who tested the application earlier felt that it took less time . this allowed them can also be used by social surveyors , design consultants and other professions for work-related tasks , " he said .  " we now plan to make a new and improved version of the application . it will be more comprehensive yet applicable to other tasks " .  goodbye to creaky chairs and desks as lecturer nik aizan nik abdullah and his team have come up with ergonomically-designed furniture for schoolchildren .  made with locally produced rubber wood that has undergone the laminated veneer lumber ( lvl ) process , the chairs and tables feature flexible joining systems which makes them more durable than the existing school furniture .  nik aizan said that the furniture in government schools use british standards which may not be suitable for malaysian children who are smaller in size .  " the design of the chair helps children to sit better , while the more flexible joining systems enable the furniture to endure rocking and other movements of pupils . "  he pointed out that the existing furniture in schools are more prone to damage because many pupils tend to and enabling pupils to have proper posture , there is hardly any cost involved in the upkeep of the furniture .  " the tables and chairs can be easily assembled and disassembled and kept away in slim boxes that do n't take up much space , " he said .  complete checklist  as more natural disasters occur , it is now vital to have a " sustainable " building to live or work in .  it is a comprehensive framework created by dr zalina , its sole inventor .  she said the framework incorporates the environmental , social and economic aspects -- factors that must be taken into consideration when high-rise buildings are constructed .  the framework targets buildings mainly in developing countries such as malaysia and thailand .  she added that myobsa is like a checklist that determines the safety and condition of a building .  " the framework also considers local building sector requirements and expectations .  " it also includes national and international research findings , " she said , adding that the assessment covers all three components of .  dr zalina said her product brings environmental , social and economic benefits .