Citizens must come first - Radebe
http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/citizens-must-come-first-radebe-20151112

related links  johannesburg - minister in the presidency jeff radebe has highlighted the media , government , civil society and private sector should make sure the country 's citizens were a priority .  opening the african media leaders forum in boksburg on president jacob zuma 's behalf , radebe stressed the importance of a free press and the media 's role as a watchdog .  " it should play its watchdog role without fear , favour nor prejudice , " radebe said .  he said the media had to defend the development progress made thus far . it also had to challenge the various stakeholders to act in a manner putting people first and contributing meaningfully towards socioeconomic development .  he said the group coming together at the forum would never have been able to do so under the apartheid regime .  " we owe this freedom and democracy to the militancy of the media practitioners and leaders from across the globe ; the sacrifices of our fellow african brothers in africa and diaspora and all peoples of the world who said it was common knowledge under apartheid a culture of secrecy , disinformation and restrictions on press freedom was a norm .  according to radebe , the promotion of access to information act ( paia ) had been used effectively over the years by journalists and others to defend this right .  he said government believed the act opened the doors for the implementation of other rights .  on how the positivity towards press freedom and the looming media appeals tribunal would work in conjunction , radebe told netwerk24 the tribunal needed to be seen " in perspective " .  there still needed to be a parliamentary enquiry into the " feasibility and desirability " of such a tribunal .  " i think we should wait for that parliamentary process to unfold before we can ... jump to conclusions . "  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  news24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi news addict ,  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .