EU plans migration summit with Turkey
http://www.news24.com/World/News/eu-plans-migration-summit-with-turkey-20151112

israel 's cloistered but politically powerful ultra-orthodox community has for decades maintained a separate education system , where boys and girls study holy texts and secular studies take a distant back seat .  related links  valletta - the european union will hold a special summit with turkey to secure its co-operation on stemming migration flows , top officials said on thursday , adding that they are working to come up with ? 3bn in aid demanded by ankara .  " we feel confident that a mutually beneficial relationship can be established that will help us confront the present migration crisis , " eu president tusk said after informal talks with the bloc 's leaders in the maltese capital valletta .  the eu has been courting turkey for more than a month in a bid to enlist its help in holding back the migrants and asylum seekers that have been transiting through its territory on their way to europe .  more than 800 000 people have reached the continent by sea this year and thousands are arriving daily on greek islands after setting is home to more than 2 million syrian refugees .  in what critics have decried as a " dirty deal " , brussels is offering turkey more aid and closer ties in exchange for help on the refugee crisis . the approach is controversial because of concerns over turkish president recep tayyip erdogan 's authoritarianism and human rights record .  according to brussels diplomats , one of ankara 's demands had been a high-profile summit between erdogan and the eu 's 28 leaders - an unusual format .  " we are ready to hold a special summit of the 28 member states with turkey as soon as possible , " tusk said in valletta . " i do not have a date yet , but it could still be this year after a new turkish government has been formed . "  turkey held elections on november 1 that delivered a victory to erdogan 's party .  tusk said he was " 99% sure " that the summit would be held in brussels at the end of november . the date under consideration is november 29 , angela merkel and french president francois hollande both spoke of late november or early december as a time for the summit .  a more tricky demand from ankara has been the ? 3bn in support to help it host syrian refugees - three times more than what the cash-strapped eu had initially offered .  but merkel said that " in principle , the sum has not been challenged " .  " i do n't think this is about political prices . this is about opening a new chapter , " she added .  the european commission , the bloc 's executive , would be able to provide ? 500m over the next two years , president jean-claude juncker said in valletta .  he suggested that eu member states should make up the rest , with their contributions based on gross national incomes .  according to a document prepared by the commission for thursday 's talks and seen by dpa , that would require germany to provide the largest contribution at ? 534m over the next two years - followed by britain with ? 410m ,  the proposal is expected to prove unpopular among eu member states , sources said on condition of anonymity .  " it 's a somewhat difficult budgetary issue , but ... i am hopeful that we will manage and that we will be able to conclude our negotiations with turkey during the special summit , " juncker said .  the money would be aid for refugees , " not a compensation for turkey " , hollande insisted . he said the summit would be used to also hold talks with erdogan on turkey 's eu membership bid and easier visas for its citizens - two other areas where ankara has asked for progress .  the issue of cyprus is also expected to come up . the island , a member of the eu , is divided into a greek cypriot south and turkish cypriot north since 1974 after turkey invaded the north in response to a greek-led coup . the situation has long strained relations between ankara and nicosia .  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  news24 allows you location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving your settings  facebook sign-in  hi news addict ,  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .