And the very worst airline in the world is...
http://traveller24.news24.com/News/Flights/And-the-very-worst-airline-in-the-world-is-20150122

and the very worst airline in the world is ...  cape town - for the fourth year in a row , north korea 's air koryo was named the very worst airline in the world by skytrax , a uk-based aviation consultancy providing rankings and reviews for airlines and airports .  daily mail reports that air koryo came last in a list of 600 carriers , receiving only a one-star rating . airlines are ranked according to various criteria , including aircraft age and efficiency , in-flight meals and service .  air koryo was banned from entering eu airspace in 2006 , due to safety and maintenance concerns . in the meantime , the ban has been lifted on a small part of its fleet , which consists of tu-204 aircraft .  what makes air koryo 's poor performance stand out even more is the fact that most of the airlines who top the list are all based in the far east , providing a stark contrast to north korea .  despite the bad rating , many readers came out in defense it , with some saying that they had seen a lot worse . this is what a few readers had to say :  petri van zyl - north korea 's fleet is old and lack the comfort of modern planes . that is purely a result of their politics and economics . that does not say that the planes are not safe to fly in and that the airline is not professional . everything was on standard at the time the plane was built and all planes used to look more or less the same . the tribute is that these old planes are still flying while the others has been disbanded in plane graveyards .  kosmonooit - cockpit looks good to me - no fancy computers that de-skill pilots and make them lazy , so lazy that they forget how to fly the frigging aeroplane  blackwolf - this article is very misleading . i travel every 28 days on flights all over the world . in the last decade i have travelled on much much worse than this . try flying domestic in the congo , nigeria flying unlike some modern aircraft 's that have crashed this year , this proves the latest and greatest is not always the safest .  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our comments policy . should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so by clicking the ' report comment ' button to the right of each comment .