Rental car's missing fuel mystery
http://www.iol.co.za/motoring/industry-news/rental-car-s-missing-fuel-mystery-1.1807858

Rental car 's missing fuel mystery  Johannesburg - Consumer sites like Hellopeter are full of complaints against car-rental firms , but while most of the ire concerns poor service , one that has come to our attention is more serious as it involves possible fraud .  Reader Dave Pullen recently hired a VW Polo Vivo 1.4 from First Car Rental at O.R . Tambo airport and was shocked at the petrol bill he had to pay when returning the car - after giving the car back with what he believed was a full tank of fuel .  According to the rental contract , cars are handed to the renter full of fuel and the renter is responsible for the cost of topping up the tank after they return the car .  Pullen has no problem with that , but he suspects some skulduggery because his wife filled the car up to the " first-click " at an airport petrol station just before returning it , and he was dismayed when he subsequently received a bill of R167 for an additional 13 litres for First Car Rental 's office at O.R Tambo and its fuel depot in Pomona is just 5km , which could not possibly account for 13 litres of fuel being used .  Pullen also worked out , based on the 191 km distance he drove and a total of 23 litres of fuel pumped into the vehicle , that the Vivo 1.4 averaged a consumption of over 12 litres per 100km - double the manufacturer 's quoted fuel consumption figure of 6.2 litres/100km .  WHAT 'S GOING ON ?  Pullen suspects that either he 's being charged for fuel that was n't put into the car , or that operators at the depot are claiming to be filling rental cars but stealing the fuel for themselves .  " If the tank was 13 litres below full , it equates to a tank that is only two-thirds full , " says Pullen .  " The only explanations are that the fuel gauge is faulty or has been recalibrated , or their 13 litres never made it into the tank . "  When we put these claims to their vehicles to the brim , and that the Vivo that Pullen rented may have had a vapour lock preventing it being fully filled when Pullen 's wife put petrol in the car .  " We record every fill-up on a Pump Record Sheet , which is checked for accuracy by no less than two admin staff members , as well as our Regional Admin Manager , " says Melissa Storey , Executive Head : Strategy , Development &amp; Marketing at First Car Rental .  " Staff cars are not permitted on site so as to prevent an opportunity for fuel theft " .  In this publication 's own experience of road-testing cars it 's uncommon for a vapour lock to create such a large discrepancy ( 13 litres ) , and the difference is normally a couple of litres .  First Car Rental did n't find the Vivo 's 12l/100km consumption to be particularly high , and said that fuel use varies depending on different drivers and road conditions . When this publication road-tested a Polo Vivo 1.4 it averaged under 8l/100km , however .  balances in our system when it gets captured that calculates impossibilities and therefore possible errors , as well as personnel checks . Our customer satisfaction team is satisfied with the investigation into this particular case . "  Have you had a similar experience with a rental company ? Email me at email protected  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines