Martin Oedegaard: Real Madrid's galactico in waiting
http://citizen.co.za/afp_feed_article/martin-oedegaard-real-madrids-galactico-in-waiting/

martin oedegaard : real madrid 's galactico in waiting  scanpix/afp/file / terje pedersenmartin oedegaard became the youngest norwegian international in history in august 2014  a complete unknown only a year ago , norwegian prodigy martin oedegaard 's transfer to real madrid has set his fledgling career soaring towards the stratosphere .  oslo ( afp )  the young midfielder had long been courted by some of europe 's top clubs . real , bayern munich , arsenal and liverpool were all , according to press reports , in the race to sign the teenager .  finally , a deal with the spanish giants was announced thursday , clearing the way for him to join a star-packed squad .  norwegian press sports suggested the teen would spend the spring playing for castilla -- the club 's youth team , coached by former world champion zinedine zidane -- and join the likes of cristiano ronaldo , gareth bale and james rodriguez after the summer .  it is a dream come true for a boy who only celebrated his 16th birthday on december 17 unfamiliar to oedegaard , who already has three international appearances for norway to his name .  when he turned out for stroemsgodset in april 2014 he became the youngest player to feature in the norwegian first division . a month later he became the league 's youngest scorer .  oedegaard scored five goals and provided seven assists in his 23 games for the club .  his prowess quickly drew attention as videos of the then 15-year-old running rings around opponents created an online buzz that spread to the scandinavian sports press .  -- ' talent of the century ' --  he was soon called up to the national team , where he broke new records .  oedegaard became the youngest norwegian international in history in august -- only 15 years and 253 days old -- and later the youngest ever to feature in a european championship qualifier , in october against bulgaria .  " he has developed enormously in a short time . he brought down barriers that i think neither he nor anyone else imagined would fall , " norway manager per-mathias hoegmo of playing , his talent , his ability to make choices and think , all of this is impressive , " he added .  his gifts did not go unnoticed around europe . many of the continents ' greatest clubs have reportedly been interested in signing the norwegian .  press reports linked ajax with an imminent deal , while others said bayern were first in line . the german team 's president , the legendary karl-heinz rummenigge , said oedegaard was the " talent of the century " .  the teenager and his father hans erik -- himself a former professional -- toured several clubs over recent months to visit facilities and meet senior representatives .  hans erik 's demand was for his son not to spend time with the reserves of a top team , but to train and play with the best .  according to sports media , zidane played a key role in convincing the norwegian to start out at castilla in the spanish third division before joining the first team .  his future teammates already await his arrival .  " boy , he can still grow , " ronaldo said of his new teammate .  " he has a good future ahead . so we must give him time to learn , to take the best decisions but i see a lot of potential in that player , " he added before picking up his third ballon d'or award .  " so we must give him time to learn , to take the best decisions but i see a lot of potential in that player . a good left foot "