Wachowskis crack The Matrix of critics
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/movies/wachowskis-crack-the-matrix-of-critics-1.1820690

Wachowskis crack The Matrix of critics  Sibling directors refuse to play it safe when making films in Hollywood  It seems as if nothing can come between the Wachowskis . When the filmmaker siblings are asked what incites the biggest spats between the duo best known for writing and directing The Matrix trilogy , Andy and Lana Wachowski provide a non-verbal response : the brother and sister clasp each other 's hands and tap their contrasting noggins -- Lana 's fuchsia-hued dreadlocks , Andy 's bald head -- together .  " It 's all just love , " said Lana . " Is that too good to be believed ? "  The Wachowskis are equally unflappable when it comes to criticisms of their work . They 're undaunted by the weak box office for their 2012 time-jumping drama Cloud Atlas and their hyper 2008 cartoon adaptation Speed Racer , and they 're impervious to the pessimism swirling around their space opera , Jupiter Ascending .  " I 've gotten a thicker skin when it comes to internet searches on our art , " ..  Jupiter Ascending centres on a toilet-scrubbing earthling ( Mila Kunis ) and her gravity-defying alien bodyguard ( Channing Tatum ) . The pair become caught up in an epic case of intergalactic sibling rivalry , with Eddie Redmayne , Tuppence Middleton and Douglas Boothand portraying a royal space dynasty with nasty plans for humanity .  " I like things that are different , " said Kunis , who plays the titular character , Jupiter Jones . " You have to do things because you want to do them , not because someone else wants you to . If it fails , it does n't matter . I did it because I wanted to work with the Wachowskis . If it does n't do well , I still got to work with great people , and I learnt a lot . "  The result is a mostly straightforward sci-fi romp -- for the Wachowskis , anyway -- that recalls space sagas like Star Wars and Dune , as well as last year 's Guardians of the Galaxy . It also marks the first original , non-adapted film that to The Matrix trilogy in 2003 .  " There are directors like John Ford and Christopher Nolan who find a tone and stick with it throughout their careers , " said Lana . " We 're not like that . We 're always looking for the range of what we see in life . That creates a tension between us and our audience because they do n't know what to expect . It makes people excited , but it can also make for frustrated consumers . "  The delay of Jupiter Ascending from a July to February release , as well as a surprise screening at Sundance where some audience members walked out , has raised questions whether the film will become a $175 million black hole for Warner Bros . Lana likened the reshuffling of Jupiter Ascending to the studio 's shifting of Gravity in 2013 .  Said Lana : " Many cultural critics who shape awareness for films are obsessed with sequels and derivative material . That kind of environment is hostile to originality . I think Warner Bros was uncomfortable with that environment . " another sci-fi flick . It 's also an opportunity to stand up for fresh material at a time when studios are keener to greenlight sequels , reboots and adaptations . ( Andy called the possibility of returning to The Matrix a " particularly repelling idea in these times . " ) It 's another subject where the duo is united .  " The cultural obsession with equating a movie 's success to its box office is incredibly damning to this industry , " said Andy . " It 's pushing the industry more and more to making pure product , which is another reason why you constantly have reboots . It 's McDonald 's . People know what they 're going to sit down and watch . Inherently , it 's unhealthy for your brain . "  Whatever happens with Jupiter Ascending , the siblings are deep into work on their next ambitious project : a mind-bending drama about eight mentally and emotionally linked strangers called Sense8 .  For that project , the Wachowskis wo n't have to worry about box office tallies . Sense8 is a streaming a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines