We needed a bit of luck - Tembo
http://www.supersport.com/football/multichoice-diski-challenge/news/150219/We_needed_a_bit_of_luck_Tembo

Football MultiChoice Diski Challenge  We needed a bit of luck - Tembo  SuperSport United 's coach Kaitano Tembo believes that with a bit of luck they could have won the match against their rivals University of Pretoria .  Tuks won the MultiChoice Diski Challenge semifinal 3-2 on penalties after it ended 1-1 after extra time at the Isaac Wolfson Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday .  " If you look at Tuks , they brought a lot of experienced players from their first team like Thabo Mnyamane , Grant Kekana , Mpho Maruping . We used mostly our academy players with only Thabo September as the senior player .  " So for me , considering that , I think we played very well . We took them all the way to the penalties , " Tembo told supersport.com .  SuperSport took the lead after 23 minutes through striker Kwanele Zulu , who rounded off the keeper to score . Dikgang Ngcobo put Tuks level when he headed from a corner in the 36th minute .  " We played about 40 chances . With a little bit of luck I think we could have won the game in regulation time .  " But you know the story with penalties , it 's a lottery , anything can happen , " he continued .  " I think there was tired legs as well after playing 40 minutes with ten men . And you could see the concentration level during those penalty shootouts , as well as the pressure , I think it got to the youngsters .  " But I 'm really proud , I think we gave a good account of ourselves , " Tembo said .  SuperSport were without midfielder Morne Nel and striker Ryan Chapman , who were both with the first team . The coach admits that their absence weakened the side .  " Most definitely , if you look at our games they 've always been the pillar for the team because they 've got PSL experience . Ryan as a striker , and we did n't have anyone like him upfront , who could hold the ball , who could lead the chances that we created , I think we could have scored two or three goals there , " he stressed .  " And with Morne as well , his presence and creativity in midfield , we lacked that a little bit . "  BRONZE  Matsatsantsha take on Mpumalanga Black Aces , who lost 2-1 to Mamelodi Sundowns , in the third place playoff at the Nike Football Training Centre in Pimville , Soweto , on February 28 .  " Going to that match I think we want to finish as high as we can and we are taking that match very seriously .  The club 's former defender also talked about the plans for the team after the Diski Challenge , which ends next week .  " Most of our players who played there are still at school . So we are still going to continue with our programme , we will arrange friendly games to keep them fit . We do n't want to lose this momentum because the boys are very excited even though they are disappointed that they could n't go to keep the momentum going . We will continue with our programme , arrange friendly games with third division and NFD teams , " he concluded .