A people in bondage
http://www.news24.com/MyNews24/A-people-in-bondage-20150317

a people in bondage  17 march 2015 , 12:18  one of the most harped-on episodes in history is nazi germany and the holocaust , - the persecution and annihilation of more than six million jews by a crazed dictator who had a hold of the german people by means of upholding a culture of absolute fear . some may argue that it was n't fear , but given a choice , most lucid germans would not have acquiesced to the treatment meted out to jews , had the fear of the ss , gestapo and other police organisations not been so terrifying to even them .  there have been countless movies made and books written on this subject . - and quite rightly so too ; it deals with what happens when the human race goes rogue , turns on itself , and unleashes the dark side , the evil side of our being , on our own . we are after all , all human beings , who bleed the same shade of red the world over , who have the same emotions happiness and peace for ourselves and for our loved ones .  now apart from the jew-haters , generally hailing from the lunatic fringe , who purport that it never happened ; of course we all know that it very definitely did , and that in retrospect , - and with the benefit of hindsight , the majority of us would have done anything in our power to have stopped the absolutely barbaric slaughter of innocent men , women , children and infants . we 're not talking about any quick exits here . we 're talking about the systematic , purposefully prolonged torture of a people , where those in power enforced their twisted and evil intent , ensuring an unspeakable misery being plied on normal and innocent people .  there is a quote by primo levi on the wall of the jewish holocaust centre near melbourne in australia that says : " it happened , so it can happen again . that is the essence of what we have to say . " it means that we may not forget what people did to other people there . trivialise the holocaust , it may happen again in some form or fashion .  should something similar arise , how do we ensure that we do n't remain bystanders , who are in essence passive offenders , again ? i ask this question , because it is happening again , albeit with a slightly different spin . i 'm referring , of course , to north korea , where the state , by means of instilling an unnatural and terrible fear in its own people , remains in power , and wreaks havoc on the lives of ordinary people , causing them to turn on their own , and act in forced and unnatural ways .  just as the nazis identified jews who they appointed as guards of other jews in the ghettos and concentration camps , the north koreans ensure a constant torrent of lies and propaganda , and have police and army personnel who are compelled to brutalise not only other north koreans , but also their neighbours and in many cases , even their own family members . they keep people in prisons for the merest pamphlets , dropped by the south koreans , watching an american movie , expressing the slightest disapproval of their living conditions in their " worker 's paradise " or even displaying unhappy faces at public events .  they die of starvation in hordes with many families being wiped out in this way , while non-attendance of political rallies is punishable by being summarily thrown into concentration camps where hard labour is the order of the day , and many die from hunger , malnutrition and being physically overworked . vibrantly feigned enthusiasm is a prerequisite at such rallies , and when watching them perform their colourful and intricate folk dances , you can sense the terror in the faces . the fear factor is so great that many even report their own friends and family to state institutions , so as to be seen to be conforming vigorously themselves . their jails have been described as being cages unfit for animals , where men and women are kept naked , and are regularly beaten , tortured , abused and starved , where cruelty and barbarism are the norm , and the west and that south korea are evil , are told many deceitful stories like a recently heard one ; that there are no birds there . the birds have been eaten and destroyed by the gluttonous and greedy westerners , and that life there is harder than what they know in their own country . such things are designed to eventually change the psyche and thought patterns of their own people , brain-washing them into the acceptance of their plight and fate , of their hunger and their misery , as an unfortunate part of life , so as to keep them in the worst kind of servitude , and allow their very well fed leader to be able to continue to live in the lap of luxury , always ensuring that such excesses are well hidden from the eyes of his people .  we citizens of this world have a choice , and that choice matters hugely , just as it would have should we 'd have been able to bring world war ii to an end , and the nazis to their knees a week , or did . we need to not only raise awareness of the north korean situation , but we also need to lobby each of our own leaders ( such as they are ) when and wherever we can , to urgently affect change in that country , as soon as possible .  we need to understand what motivated and drove the rescuers of the concentration camp prisoners , what drove the leaders of the free world at that time , and we need to work toward freeing the people of north korea , and bring their illegitimate leader to book as soon as we can . there are crimes against humanity taking place there with absolute impunity . history will eventually judge the other leaders of our world harshly , knowing , again with hindsight that they could have done more , that they could have acted more decisively , and that they could have staved off the unnecessary and unjustified suffering of millions of innocents , to the benefit of mankind .  without the will to better the lives of others of our own kind wherever we can ; of those who are held under duress without cause , we are no better than any of the wild beasts that care not about their lineage , siblings or kind ; who have no plan , thought or care for tomorrow , and who eventually have no hope for the future , living for the present - blissfully unaware that in slightly altered circumstance , the same fate might easily befall them .  disclaimer : all articles and letters published on mynews24 have been independently written by members of news24 's community . the views of users published on news24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of news24 . news24 editors also reserve the right to edit or delete any and all comments received .  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our comments policy . should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so by clicking the ' report comment ' button to the right of each comment .  i mean if it is not clear to every south african now is about to break , we have bent this stick as far as it will go ... there will be a snap ! it 's just got to happen . read more ...  i think we should look at why kenyans reached a conclusion 2010 that their constitution needed to be overhauled . i have some reasons to state in argument for a review of the constitution of rsa ! read more ...  about 4 million tons of maize had to be imported and yellow maize had to be blended with white maize for human consumption which was not very acceptable by the majority of the consumers in the country . read more ...  tell us a bit about yourself :  saving your profile  settings  news24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . if you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  your location*  weather*  always remember my setting  saving  join the news24 community to be involved in breaking the news .  log in with facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .