Cottage garden as pretty as a picture
http://www.iol.co.za/lifestyle/home-garden/garden/cottage-garden-as-pretty-as-a-picture-1.1835076

the small gardens of agricultural labourers planted in europe hundreds of years ago created the myth of the cottage garden .  comprised of plantings on either side of a path leading to the front door of the cottage home , the garden was a mix of colourful local plants interspersed with some herbs and vegetables . lawns were never a feature of cottage gardens .  with the movement to provide bees with food , cottage gardening is once again very fashionable . being surrounded by a forest of colourful flowers is not only the ultimate fantasy of gardening , but is now also bee-friendly and butterfly-friendly .  design considerations  the cottage garden is essentially an intimate garden style , ideal for small gardens and townhouses . to achieve the cottage look , keep the lawn size small or remove it . make the surrounding borders large and plant hundreds of flowering plants .  it is possible to include many indigenous plants in a cottage garden ; it is simply a matter of having in mind a clear picture of the end result daisies , lachenalia , agapanthus , pelargonium and scabiosa .  plan a mixed border  to achieve the cottage garden style in mixed borders , aim for the following :  * plant taller shrubs or standards at the back of the border , medium ones in the middle , and shorter ones at the front . however , include some low growing plants that send up tall flowers -- such as foxgloves , iris and dwarf agapanthus -- near the front to avoid too regimented a look .  * in small gardens with small borders select plants with a narrow upright growth for the back of the border or use standards . another alternative is to plant climbers against the walls to achieve height without spread . for shaded walls , the evergreen star jasmine is ideal .  * plant perennials , annuals and bulbs in drifts , not in regular rows or patterns .  * to create interest place plants with contrasting foliage shape , foliage colour and leaf texture next to each other , for example , an iris with sword-shaped grey foliage next  * place plants with different shaped blooms next to each other . flower shapes can be spire-like ( foxgloves ) , flat ( daisies ) and round ( dahlias and roses ) .  choosing plants  * roses are an integral part of a cottage garden . plant them in borders , over archways and pergolas , against walls and in narrow borders . english or nostalgia roses as well as floribundas are more relaxed and informal than the hybrid teas .  * annuals and bulbs provide the long-lasting colour that is part and parcel of a cottage garden . choose what you like from the available range of seasonal seeds , seedlings and bulbs . make a point of including tall annuals like hollyhocks , foxglove or verbascum .  comment guidelines  has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines