No more foreign rescue teams: Nepal
http://www.iol.co.za/news/world/no-more-foreign-rescue-teams-nepal-1.1851432

no more foreign rescue teams : nepal  an injured woman arrives , with a special flight from the disaster area of nepal , at the eindhoven airport , the netherlands , . on the flight were elderly , pregnant women , wounded and people with small children fleeing the country after a massive earthquake . epa/robin van l ...  rishi khanal , an injured survivor is taken out by french rescue teams from a damaged building following saturday 's earthquake in kathmandu , nepal . reuters/danish siddiqui  a man performs the last rites of a family member , who died in saturday 's earthquake , during the cremation along a river in kathmandu , nepal . reuters/adnan abidi  jagot kumari rana , 79 , is led through the rubble of collapsed homes by her grandson sogat rana , 7 , in paslang village near the epicenter of saturday 's massive earthquake in the gorkha district of nepal . ap photo/wally santana  survivor rishi khanal , 27 , is freed by french rescuers from the ruins of a three-story hotel in the gangabu including in kathmandu , the capital , hundreds of thousands of people are still living in the open without clean wat ...  survivor rishi khanal , 27 , is freed by french rescuers from the ruins of a three-story hotel in the gangabu area of kathmandu , nepal . ap photo/niranjan shrestha  rishi khanal , an injured survivor , is taken out by french rescue teams from a damaged building following saturday 's earthquake in kathmandu , nepal . reuters/danish siddiqui  a woman recovers cooking pots from her collapsed home in the destroyed village of paslang near the epicenter of saturday 's massive earthquake in the gorkha district of nepal . ap photo/wally santana  rishi khanal , 27 is rescued by french rescue team after being stranded for 82 hours in a hotel in gangabu , kathmandu . ap photo/niranjan shrestha  april 28 2015 at 08:59pm  kathmandu - nepal has told aid agencies it did not need more foreign rescue teams to come and help in the search for earthquake survivors , because its government and military could cope , the national head of the search and rescue will go on but the message they wanted us to relay was they have enough to deal with it , " jamie mcgoldrick said . the message was conveyed by the nepali government and military to aid agencies at a meeting on tuesday afternoon .  if foreign rescue and medical teams are " in the air or just landed , they can come and help " , mcgoldrick said . " but if they are on a runway in their home country waiting to take off , then we are telling them not to come . "  the government was not immediately available to comment .  the fate of thousands of people remains unclear , although four days after a 7.9 magnitude quake wrecked buildings and killed at least 4 600 people , hopes were fading of finding people alive in the rubble . more than 9 200 were injured .  some remote villages believed destroyed by the earthquake had still not been reached , and on tuesday a local official said up to 250 people were missing after a fresh avalanche .  toll could reach 10 000 .  " after the first 72 hours the survival rate drops dramatically and we are on day four , " said wojtek wilk of the polish center for international aid , a ngo which has six medical staff and 81 firefighters in nepal .  " on the fifth day it 's next to zero . "  rescue teams from around the world were still arriving in the capital kathmandu on tuesday .  others have not been able to reach the himalayan nation as quickly as they had hoped , because its one international airport has been functioning intermittently amid aftershocks .  search and rescue teams " that have not yet arrived in kathmandu are advised to stand down , " said an advisory on a un website for emergency coordination . " there is no ... need for teams to arrive . "  it also said foreign medical teams that had not yet arrived in kathmandu should " stand by " .  with the search now shifting to more remote areas , there is no need for international teams mud or wood , mcgoldrick said .  a french rescue team was trying to save a male survivor from a residential tower in northern kathmandu on tuesday evening .  and at basundhara , also in the north of the capital , rescue teams from the netherlands , france , turkey and india , and the nepal army , all turned up to search for three survivors thought buried beneath the debris .  the 18-strong dutch urban search and rescue team included paramedics , dog handlers and firemen . after a second sniffer dog failed to pick up the scent of any survivor , the search was called off .  " now there is no hope here , " huijbrechts marcel from the dutch team told reuters .  " when we arrived here yesterday there was absolutely no coordination . there was only a reception where we could register and take permission to set up our base - nothing else , " he said .  in the ruined back alleys of bhaktapur , a badly hit temple city to the southeast of kathmandu , the dutch group of volunteers from various cities in china .  neither group had received information about how to divide up their search in the city . the chinese had drones , and the dutch had dogs , but their joint efforts found no survivors .  the dutch team sought another destination to search , but it said its nepal army liaison officer did not know of any possible sites in the kathmandu valley .  " why are the army not coordinating ? " asked niraj thapa , a basundhara resident , and the dutch team 's chief source of on-the-ground information for the day .  comment guidelines  has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines