Mokate secure points for Maritzburg
http://psl.co.za/article.asp?id=2979384

A headed goal in optional time by substitute Mohau Mokate gave Maritzburg United a 1-0 Absa Premiership win over visiting Ajax Cape Town who dominated the scoring opportunities on the night .  The match at Harry Gwala Stadium took a while to get going with no goal mouth situations inside the opening ten minutes and it took until the 14th minute for the first attempt on goal when Kurt Lentjies ? shot flew across the face of goal .  It took until the 23rd minute for an Ajax chance on goal when Keagan Dolly pounced on lost ball possession to set up Abbubakar Mobara who fired in a shot , only to see it well saved by a diving Shuaib Walters  A few minutes later and Dolly got in a shot at goal , but it hardly troubled Walters before Anssi Jaakkola was called into action for the visitors , making a comfortable punched clearance from a corner kick .  On the half hour mark Toriq Losper fashioned a shot at goal but again Walters was there to make the save , and see their shots flash wide of goal in a lively opening half by the visiting Ajax .  Then in the 42nd minute Ajax should have taken the lead when Cale fired in a cross to the back post where an unmarked Mosa Lebusa somehow headed wide of the goal .  Directly after the interval Ajax were in with a shout again when Dolly got into a one-on-one situation but his effort was saved by the impressive Walters .  Maritzburg coach Steve Komphela made all of his substitutions by the 67th minute , a clear indication of his unhappiness with the way his side had played up then .  Mondli Cele could not do anything to help ease his coach ? s concerns when he put an effort wide in the 64th minute before Ryan de Jongh ? s effort also lacked power and direction .  Ajax thought they had done enough for a winner in the 83rd minute only to see Maritzburg goalkeeper Walters tip a Lebusa header onto the upright to keep the score goalless .  Then , despite being dominated by Ajax for substitute Mokate finished off with a header from Deolin Mekoa ? s supply in referee ? s optional time .