'Pride' came out in force
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/kwazulu-natal/pride-came-out-in-force-1.1877332

' Pride ' came out in force  INDEPENDENT MEDIAHaving a ball at this years Pride march and decorating each others faces with cheerful designs are , front from left : Thshengi Ngubane and Ilsa Roberts , with , back from left : Linda Haley and Anathi Saziwa . Picture : Vivian Attwood  Durban - Hundreds of euphoric celebrants gathered at the amphitheatre on the Durban beachfront on Saturday to join the annual Pride march , celebrating 20 years of equal rights for members of the LGBTI ( lesbian , gay , bisexual , transgender and intersex ) community .  This year 's event was given an extra injection of energy by the announcement , on Friday , that the US Supreme Court had declared bias against LGBTI people to be unconstitutional , paving the way for same sex marriage in all 50 US states .  " Now they are free , just like us South Africans ! " said an excited 22-year-old Thandiswa Kunene who was attending Pride for the first time with her girlfriend .  " We have the most beautiful followed our lead in recognising sexual freedom and equality . "  In contrast to last year 's event , which saw attendees hidden from view on a sports ground near the Moses Mabhida Stadium , this year the LGBTI community was louder , prouder , and more visible than ever , on the lawns in front of the amphitheatre .  Musicians and DJs belted out catchy tunes and whipped the crowd into a froth of excitement as the countdown to the march began .  The energy reached fever pitch as a version of Flo Rida 's Good Feeling was belted out , prompting the large crowd to chorus : " Sometimes , I get a feeling that I never , never , never had before . "  And then they were off ! The local chapter of the DA led the procession in a ( gaily ? ) decorated van , followed by a bakkie draped in what looked like pink latex , atop which , perched a half-naked man wearing feathered angel 's wings .  A massive , 30m-long , rainbow-hued gay flag was next the UK and Amsterdam , and others from Joburg and Cape Town . Even good old Bloem was represented .  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines