Respected retired surgeon Bett Mckenzie dies, aged 82
http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/Respected-retired-surgeon-Bett-Mckenzie-dies-aged-82-20150712

Respected retired surgeon Bett Mckenzie dies , aged 82  RESPECTED local surgeon Dr Malcolm Bett Mckenzie has died after a short battle with cancer at the age of 82 .  Bett Mckenzie was well-known in the Pietermaritzburg community where he worked for nearly 40 years .  His wife of 55 years , Denise , said he was a keen Rotarian for many years .  " He was an extremely compassionate man who was very intelligent and extremely dedicated , " she said .  Bett McKenzie was diagnosed with lung cancer just five weeks before his death and died peacefully in Hillcrest Private Hospital on Friday .  He obtained his medical degree at the University of Cape Town and was the first recipient of the Douglas Gold Medal for his specialist exams in surgery .  After obtaining his doctorate in surgery , he was awarded the Nuffield Fellowship and worked both in the United Kingdom and at the prestigious Mayo Clinic in Rochester , Minnesota , USA .  He worked closely with Professor Chris Barnard , who performed the world and was integrally involved in the development of the first artificial heart valves .  Denise said he enjoyed over 30 years of successful and fulfilling surgical practice in Pietermaritzburg .  " He was a very spiritual man and despite his age he was very involved in the church , " Denise said .  Bett McKenzie is survived by his wife , three daughters , all of whom are qualified doctors , and his three grandchildren .  " All our daughters were inspired by their father into becoming doctors . He was an exemplary husband and father . He was the best , we could not have asked for better , " she said .  His funeral will be held tomorrow at 2 pm , at the Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Hillcrest  24. com publishes all comments posted on articles provided that they adhere to our Comments Policy . Should you wish to report a comment for editorial review , please do so by clicking the ' Report Comment ' button to the right of each comment .  Tell us a bit about yourself you to edit the display of certain components based on a location . If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences , please select a location for each component and click " Submit " in order for the changes to take affect .  Your Location*  Weather*  Always remember my setting  Saving your settings  Facebook Sign-In  Hi News addict ,  Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news .  Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news , weather and listings .