Camps Bay murder case postponed
http://www.iol.co.za/news/crime-courts/camps-bay-murder-case-postponed-1.1905406

camps bay murder case postponed  suppliedus businesswoman gabriella alban , 39 , was found dead in a room at a luxury camps bay hotel . her boyfriend was due to appear in court for her murder .  cape town - guatemalan murder accused diego novella appeared briefly in the cape town magistrate 's court on tuesday when his case was postponed to the following week .  dressed in a black tracksuit top and pants , novella did not make eye contact with anyone except for his spanish interpreter . his hair , lank and oily , barely covered a large green tattoo on the back of his neck .  novella has been charged with the murder of his 39-year-old girlfriend , american businesswoman gabriella alban .  he was arrested after her body was discovered in the room they were sharing at a luxury boutique hotel in camps bay . it has been widely reported that she was strangled and viciously sexually assaulted with a curling iron .  international media have also taken an interest in the story reporting that it was large amounts of cocaine were found in the room .  novella 's family is believed to be a high profile billionaire family running a cement business in guatemala .  the 41-year-old is being represented by one of south africa 's top criminal lawyers , william booth .  booth was not in court on tuesday , and instead sent his colleague advocate anthony berinato . berinato asked the court for a postponement for " purposes of final instructions " .  the magistrate responded , " so this is a date to confirm the date for a bail application " .  berinato nodded and said " yes , those were indeed my instructions " . booth could not appear for his client on tuesday , as he is currently representing acclaimed artist and murder accused zwelethu mthethwa in the western cape high court .  novella will be back in the cape town magistrate 's court on august 31 when a date for a formal application will be set .  the magistrate also ordered that he continue his detention in the hospital wing of pollsmoor prison . you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines