Classes on hold for Dunoon school
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/western-cape/classes-on-hold-for-dunoon-school-1.1905323

classes on hold for dunoon school  cape town - western cape education mec debbie sch ? fer has expressed concern that a plan by the provincial education department to start lessons for a group of dunoon children , who have been attending classes in an " invaded " school , will be delayed .  the vacant mobile classrooms in dunoon were occupied early in july by parents and other residents who claimed that their children had been unable to find places in other schools in the area as they were full .  classes taught by " volunteer teachers " started soon thereafter .  during two registration drives earlier this month , the department found that 119 of the children were of compulsory school-going age .  the department plans to enrol some of the children at the nearby sophakama primary , but most will attend classes at the mobile-school site , which would be under the management of sophakama .  furniture was delivered on monday but sch ? fer said she was worried that teaching would not start as soon as the attention this morning ( monday ) that certain individuals are allegedly unhappy with the dunoon site being managed by the sophakama primary school management team , citing their opposition to the principal of sophakama managing the new school as their reason .  " the community members that have allegedly been teaching the learners at the site have also insisted that the western cape education department employ them to teach at the new school , " sch ? fer said .  she said sophakama was " adjacent " to the site and urged parents to work with the department .  " we will not allow individuals to place undue demands on our officials who have years of experience in the management of such matters . "  parents who spoke to the cape argus said they did n't want the mobile school site to fall under the management of sophakama because they had refused to help them when their children could n't find a school earlier this year .  on monday , posters were placed on the fence of the mobile school site with the words : " has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines