Lawyers for Human Rights launch application to halt Pilanesberg ...
http://www.mining-technology.com/news/newslawyers-for-human-rights-launch-application-to-halt-pilanesberg-mine-activities-4654757

independent human rights organisation lawyers for human rights ( lhr ) has launched an urgent application in south africa 's north west high court , asking pilanesberg platinum mines to cease all mining activities with immediate effect and restore possession of the wilgerspruit farm .  the matter will be heard in the court on the 3rd of september .  represented by lhr , the lesethleng village community is seeking full possession , occupation and use of the farm which it has owned , farmed and developed for over a hundred years .  without obtaining consent from the community , the lawyers allege that the company has sought to constructively evict the community by continuing its mining activities on the land without agreement from the community .  this , they allege , has been done by restricting access to water in addition to de-bushing at least 41% of the surface area of the farm , hindering farming activity .  lhr land and housing programme head louise du plessis said : " the farm is a major source of income and livelihood for the of the land flies in the face of south africa 's constitutional obligations .  " it can not be that a community 's rightful and legal ownership can be so blatantly ignored . "  " it can not be that a community 's rightful and legal ownership can be so blatantly ignored . "  the community was informed in 2008 that bakgatla-ba-kgafela tribal authority had acquired mining rights to wilgerspruit .  due to fencing off parts of the farm and removing vegetation in preparation for mining , the water piping system was completely destroyed and the community was left without any access to water for themselves and their livestock .  on 28 october 2014 , lhr issued a letter of demand that the mine cease its activities .  the demand was agreed for a short while , however , on 22 march , the mine resumed its activities , lhr said .  image : lhr 's application intends to have the pilanesberg mine halt all its operations . photo : courtesy of suat **26;507;toolong  related content  follow us :  related news over the holiday ...