5 steps to blemish-free healthy skin
http://www.health24.com/SkinCare/5-steps-to-blemish-free-healthy-skin-20130225

thought those embarrassing breakouts would go the same way of teenage angst and strict curfews ? as it turns out , adult acne is becoming increasingly common .  related  thought those embarrassing breakouts would go the same way of teenage angst and strict curfews ?  as it turns out , adult acne is becoming increasingly common . according to a recent report from the american dermatological association , nearly half of women in their 20s and one in four women in their 30s battles clinical acne .  in many cases , these breakouts are caused by different triggers now than in your teens .  " our skin is an eliminating organ , which often acts up when the body is out of balance , " says tammy fender , an aesthetician and the founder of tammy fender holistic skin care .  " so we may need to make a few changes with our emotions , diet , or lifestyle . "  ready to finally give those blemishes the boot ? start with these simple changes so you can finally get no. 1 : eat more fruits and veggies .  to clear up your skin , you have to clean up your diet . one study published in the journal of the american academy of dermatology showed that people who ate a diet high in sugar and refined carbs ( foods high on the glycaemic index ) were more acne-prone than those who dined on healthier meals .  after they started eating more produce , whole grains and lean protein , their complexions significantly cleared up .  " your skin is nourished by the nutrients that you consume , " explains fender . in fact , british researchers show that adding three more servings of produce to your diet can make a visible improvement to the quality of your skin within six weeks .  healthy skin step no. 2 : clean with gentle products .  when you 're trying to zap a zit , it 's tempting to reach for the most powerful products in the drugstore . " but these harsh ingredients can aggravate the skin , " says fender , who recommends looking for those  the american dermatological association advises washing with a mild cleanser twice a day and opting for a non-clogging moisturiser daily . if you opt for a drying product or zit cream , apply only a thin layer -- using more than recommended will only aggravate your skin .  healthy skin step no. 3 : be diligent about make-up removal .  your make-up can clog your pores , paving the way for a breakout . so clean your face each night . " i recommend taking off your make-up as soon as you can , like first thing when you get home , " says fender .  one of her favourite make-up products is jojoba oil , which removes stubborn products without leaving an oily or greasy feeling . simply put the oil on a cotton pad or facial tissue and wipe away any make-up before washing your face with a gentle cleaner .  healthy skin step no. 4 : stress less .  research from wake forest university shows that stress causes your skin to produce more oil , which can trigger pimple production . so to set aside some time to relax :  - go on a solo walk  - do some yoga exercise  - or take a few simple deep breath  healthy skin step no. 5 : do n't wage war on that pimple .  " treat breakouts as you would a wound , " advises fender . that means avoiding picking , squeezing or jabbing at that zit , which can introduce more bacteria and make matters worse .  get a daily health tip  stay in touch  the information on health24 is for educational purposes only , and is not intended as medical advice , diagnosis or treatment . if you are experiencing symptoms or need health advice , please consult a healthcare professional . see additional information .