At-home/office exercises for the last stretch of 2015
http://www.destinyman.com/2015/11/27/at-homeoffice-exercises-for-the-last-stretch-of-2015/

At-home/office exercises for the last stretch of 2015  Many people 's energy levels are low as we approach the end of the year . One way to boost your energy and start your mornings on a high note is to wake up your muscles with some easy exercises  We spoke to leading fitness expert and personal trainer , Ronald Abvajee , about some of the most practical and simple workouts one can do to pump up their energy levels and end the year on a strong note .  Abvajee stresses the importance of choosing a form of exercise you enjoy .  " To boost energy , you must pick something you enjoy . Play a game of basketball or tennis , go jogging or walking with a friend , or go for a bike ride , " he says . " Take some time for yourself and rock out to music or watch a favorite TV show while you step away the miles on an elliptical runner or stair-climbing machine . Go for a hike , or take your kids to the park what you enjoy and stick with it . "  Abvajee recommends four easy exercises to do at home , and another four you can do at the office :  AT HOME  A brisk walk : If I had to choose one energy-generating activity to recommend above all , its walking -- a simple exercise everyone can do . Walk at a pace brisk enough to increase your heart and breath rates , and maybe tackle a few flights of stairs while you 're at it . As you walk , actively engage your core , monitor your posture , be aware of the range of motion in your hips and thighs , and breathe consciously , working your ribcage like a bellows . You might look a little strange to the casual observer , but you 'll feel so much better when you are finished .  Breath work : Inhale quietly and slowly , allowing your abdomen to rise to the count of four , pause , holding the air lightly to the count of four , exhale slowly , allowing your abdomen to contract , to simple act of slow , deep breathing can be incredibly energising -- and relaxing .  Pick Up Sticks : Stand with feet hip-width apart , arms by your sides . Lunge forward with your right leg , bending the right knee to 90 degrees , left leg extended behind you , and reach your right hand to the ground beside your right foot . Return to starting position . Switch sides and repeat . MAKE IT HARDER : Jump up between lunges and switch legs in mid-air to alternate sides or take shorter steps and lunge faster . Do 10 reps per leg .  Hippie : Hinge forward at waist with bent knees and let your body melt down , releasing the tension . Hold for at least 10 seconds . Then , for a deeper stretch , release arms , placing your hands on the floor if possible . Alternately bend one knee , then the other , keeping your heels on the floor . Continue for 30 seconds .  AT THE OFFICE  Stairs : If you 're lucky enough to have them at your office . Race up the stairs as quickly as you can , then take them two at a time . Walk at a normal pace on the way down .  Jump rope You do n't need the real thing . Close your office door or find a private corner , and try these different jumps for 15 seconds each : Begin with standard jumps , then quick skips ( like boxers do ) , next , do the twist , then jump side to side , and finish with jumping around the four corners of an imaginary box . Repeat several times .  Chair aerobics If you ca n't get away from your desk , quickly pump your arms overhead , then twist at your waist as you punch out across your body , side to side . Follow with several quick toe taps , heel lifts , and a seated jog-lift with your knees . ( Slip off your shoes if you 're worried about disturbing co-workers . ) For a real heart pumper , try punching and jogging at the same time .  Sit-and-pulse Stand up from back straight , bend at your knees and hips as though you are sitting down . Do n't let your knees move forward beyond your toes . Stop shy of touching your chair , and stand back up . Do this four times . Then squat and hold in the down position . Pulse ( going up and down in a short range of motion ) three times , then stand back up . Do this six times .