Wenger would be CRAZY to rush back Alexis Sanchez
http://www.goal.com/en-za/news/4639/premier-league/2015/12/17/18446022/wenger-would-be-crazy-to-rush-back-alexis-sanchez

By Greg Stobart  0  17 Dec 2015 14:00:00  The Arsenal manager says the Chilean has a " very slight chance " of playing against Manchester City next Monday after a hamstring injury - but he would be mad to take the gamble  It is a sign of Alexis Sanchez 's desire to play football that when he clearly pulled his hamstring last month against Norwich , the Arsenal forward tried to convince Arsenal Wenger that it was nothing to worry about .  The Chilean told his manager that he had been kicked in the back of the leg and would be fine - only for scans to reveal a muscle strain that was expected to keep him out for a month .  So it would be foolish for Wenger to even consider listening to Alexis as the 26-year-old tries to prove his fitness ahead of Monday 's crucial home fixture against Manchester City .  Alexis returned to Chile for two weeks after suffering the injury at Carrow Road and there was even some acceptance at Arsenal that the rest might admission , Alexis has been " exhausted " and playing in the " red zone " for much of the season and it has shown in some of his performances , despite scoring nine goals in 20 appearances in all competitions so far this term .  So it would be ridiculous to risk Alexis next Monday when it is unlikely the ? 35 million man will have fully recovered .  Arsenal can not afford for their best goalscorer to have a setback when they have a genuine chance of winning the title for the first time since 2004 .  Wenger 's short-termism has caught him out with injuries before and let 's not forget that Alexis ' current injury came just days after the Arsenal manager had admitted he had a tight hamstring .  Arsenal are second in the Premier League table , have won their last three matches in all competitions and will be favourites to beat Manchester City at the Emirates even without Alexis .  The most likely outcome is that Wenger starts Alexis on the substitutes ' bench , just as he did just six days after the Chilean had returned for pre-season training .  Wenger 's gut feeling on injuries has been wrong far too often over the last few years . He himself needs to think rationally and refuse to gamble on Alexis ' fitness .