Experts criticise Smith's film subject
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/movies/experts-criticise-smith-s-film-subject-1.1961681

in this december 14 , 2015 , file photo , dr. bennet omalu , left , and actor will smith pose together at the cast photo call for the film " concussion " at the crosby street hotel in new york . photo : evan agostini/invision/ap  experts criticise smith 's film subject  boston - in the trailer for the movie " concussion , " star will smith says : " i found a disease that no one has ever seen . "  it 's a claim the real-life doctor portrayed by smith , forensic pathologist bennet omalu , has himself made for years , giving a detailed description about how he came to name that disease " chronic traumatic encephalopathy . "  but omalu neither discovered the disease nor named it , according to scientific journals and brain researchers who were interviewed by the associated press . and though no one doubts that omalu 's diagnosis of pittsburgh steelers center mike webster was pivotal in understanding the dangers of football , fellow researchers and a medical ethicist say omalu goes too far when  " it 's just not true , and i think he knows that , " said william stewart , a neuropathologist at queen elizabeth university hospital in glasgow , scotland .  " chronic traumatic encephalopathy has been around for decades . it 's not a new term , " stewart said . " the only thing i would say that bennet has done is that he identified it in an american footballer . "  omalu did not respond to an email or telephone message seeking clarification of his claims . sony pictures , which is releasing the film on christmas day , issued a statement on thursday that did not address the conflicts between his public statements and the medical literature .  " football 's head injury crisis continues to rage with competing interests and agendas , so it is not surprising that there are those that are still trying to undermine dr. omalu 's work , " sony pictures spokeswoman jean guerin said . " what is beyond dispute is that dr. omalu 's discovery shined a light on a reality that the nfl ignored for "  with its marquee star and holiday release , " concussion " is certain to revive that debate . dozens of former football players have been posthumously diagnosed with cte after descending into lives of depression , alcohol or drug abuse , violent behavior and even suicide .  also beyond dispute is the personal struggle omalu went through after the nfl sought to discredit his research rather than confront the threat to long-term health of its players .  but the new complaints about omalu are not from the league and its supporters , they come from fellow researchers who say he is claiming credit that should properly go to others . while they are willing to write off scenes in the movie as hollywood flair -- in one , omalu is explicitly encouraged by another pathologist to name the disease -- his own statements show it is not just an issue with the script .  in a 2013 talk that is viewable on youtube , omalu claims he came up with the name cte after discovering the disease in webster 's brain : " i said to you need to give it a sexy name . you need to give it a name that has a good acronym that people will remember , even a 3-year-old kid would remember . that is how ' cte ' came about . "  in the pbs documentary " league of denial , " omalu also claims credit for discovering and naming the disease .  " name it a disease ; give it a name . present it as a disease ; package it , " he said , explaining that he had taken a class in business school where they discussed how to create brand equity . " ' chronic ' means long-term . ' traumatic ' means it 's associated with trauma . ' encephalopathy ' means a bad brain . so i had both ends covered . "  at the time of webster 's autopsy , though , the disease had been known -- and known by that name -- for decades .  originally studied in boxers in the 1920s as dementia pugilistica , the seminal work on the disease came from british neurologist macdonald " punch-drunk syndromes : the chronic traumatic encephalopathy of boxers . "  by webster 's death on sept. 24 , 2002 , the disease had been diagnosed not just in boxers but in rugby and soccer players , epileptics and others with illnesses that resulted in head-banging , and an alcoholic circus clown who was knocked unconscious a dozen times as the subject of a dwarf-tossing routine .  " ( omalu ) must know that this pathology existed for many decades before , " stewart said . " otherwise he would n't know what to be looking for . "  some researchers in the field were hesitant to publicly criticise a colleague . arthur caplan , the director of medical ethics at the nyu school of medicine , said exaggerating one 's contributions is " troubled , " but not enough to disqualify the underlying research .  " it would be unethical not to acknowledge the work that came before . it 's certainly un-collegial , " caplan said . " if you 're building on the work of others , you have to credit them . certainly say , ' i took the ball further down the field . ' but you certainly do n't say , ' there 's nothing , and then i appeared . ' "  what 's not in dispute is that the webster autopsy and the ensuing attention omalu 's diagnosis received did in fact serve as the catalyst for doctors , sports officials and media to begin treating concussions as a serious health risk .  most sports leagues from the nfl to youth soccer now have concussion protocols that had never been contemplated before omalu -- and , to be sure , other brain researchers -- began publicising the often devastating tales of life with the battery of symptoms generally known as post-concussion syndrome .  " that 's when it started taking traction , when it was noted in professional football players , " said barry jordan , the chief medical officer for the new york state athletic commission and an associate professor of clinical neurology at cornell 's weill medical college . " that in and of itself was monumental . "  and that 's why a reprieve from any dents in omalu 's reputation .  " i think it 's more an internal , ethical issue for scientific research . it is n't that anything 's wrong or falsified , " he said . " all it shows is that the nfl potentially had more reason to be concerned about this because there was research in the literature before he showed up . "