Artistes look to 2016 with hope
http://southernafrican.news/2015/12/18/artistes-look-to-2016-with-hope/

artistes look to 2016 with hope  windhoek -- with the year drawing to a close , many namibian music lovers look to 2016 with anticipation from both well-established and the up and coming artistes , especially the latter .  each year , upcoming artistes break into the country 's fiercely competitive music industry where only few manage to find their feet .  the likes of the dogg , gazza , exit , mushe , the pdk , tate mbuti , sally and others have been dominating the industry for many years now .  several young singers have been cutting their teeth in the music industry by releasing singles and through collaborations with household names .  promise solani , ann singer and permithias are some of the names to watch out in the new year .  solani has soothed many ears by featuring on a newer version of pdk 's dirty kandeshi . her vocals on the hit song by omalaeti music 's popular outfit ' dirty tangeni ' left many in awe , asking ' who she was ' , not producer -- glo .  after the release of her debut album lioness , the future looks promising for solani especially since she is under the custodianship of omalaeti , one of the successful music labels in namibia .  the stable is home to the popular group pdk , which recently released a 14 track album ' kem'pu ' .  with hits like tanauka and daydreamer that has earned solani a multiple nominations at the 2015 namibian music awards ( nama ) , she is slowly but surely reaching the musical maturity needed to take the musical industry by the scruff of the neck .  ann singer is another artiste to watch out for next year . real name anastasia linus , ann singer has the voice of an angel with the ability to reach various notes . she has left many mesmerized on youtube where she has attracted attention from the likes of alicia keys and adele .  earlier this year , she had radio listeners jiving to her single hit ' mbuiti dance ' . the song has featured prominently on base fm 's local who also plays the guitar never disappointed at the various shows where she has performed , leaving the fans marvelling at her warm and comforting voice .  she is looking forward to a successful 2016 and focuses on promoting her new album and doing more performances in the new year .  " my plans for 2016 will be to do more performances and since the release of my album , i will be promoting it and increasing my fan base , " she said .  now flying high under the deal done records , ann singer 's debut album titled ' bulletproof ' is finally on the market . with so much potential and talent to offer , 2016 can only be a year of many milestones for ann singer .  permithias nelioth owoseb made a name for himself after a short stint in the 2014 big brother africa reality television competition .  while in the big brother house , permithias , who is a chef by profession , flattered many viewers across africa with his guitar skills and sentimental lyrics that spoke of matters of eviction from the popular show , permithias who also featured on the popular local music show song night from 2011 , wasted no time to showcase his musical talent and take it a step further .  he collaborated with fellow housemate luis munana on a song titled ' mira mira ' , which left fans begging for more while on tours in various african countries . other releases from permithias include ' nhlizo tombazani ' and ' /ami xa ' .