Ewan McGregor has a Star Wars: The Force Awakens cameo
http://za.ign.com/star-wars-episode-vii/96637/news/ewan-mcgregor-has-a-star-wars-the-force-awakens-ca

ewan mcgregor has a star wars : the force awakens cameo  frank oz and the late alec guinness are heard as well .  by alex osborn  star wars : the force awakens harkens back to the prior films on several occasions , and it 's now been revealed that director j.j. abrams went so far as to seek out contributions from some notable series alums beyond harrison ford , carrie fisher and mark hamill and the other obvious returns , among them ewan mcgregor and frank oz .  star wars : the force awakens spoilers below .  in one particular scene with rey ( daisy ridley ) , after she picks up a certain lightsaber for the first time , the familiar voices of yoda and obi-wan kenobi can be heard among the purposely jumbled images and sounds rey is experiencing , and in an interview with ew , abrams revealed how that scene was created , confirming that ewan mcgregor , frank oz and even the late alec guinness are all included in the film .  " the idea of -- but not necessarily be presented right in your face -- this idea that familiar , force-strong voices were connecting with her . at least as well as they could , " abrams explained . " you do hear a little bit of yoda . you hear luke yelling out , ' nooo ! ' from that moment in empire . and you hear obi-wan at the end say , ' rey ... these are your first steps . ' ' "  interestingly enough , while mcgregor recorded that obi-wan line specifically for the force awakens , the first word , when obi-wan says the name " rey , " was actually pulled from a prior line by guinness from the original star wars trilogy . in order to get the snippet , they edited a line of guinness ' that included the word " afraid , " abrams revealed .  abrams said that when force awakens producer bryan burk first played him obi-wan saying " rey , " he thought it was mcgregor initially and was thrilled when he was told it was guinness , telling ew , -- he 's saying it the way i would have begged alec guinness to have said it . it is so crazy perfect . "  the director also shared what he thought was the " cool part " of the process in working with obi-wan actor mcgregor , saying , " he was awesome ... incredibly sweet and handsome , and all that stuff . then he rode off on his motorcycle . literally the coolest voice over actor ever . "  while yoda voice actor and puppeteer frank oz also traveled to bad robot to record new lines for the force awakens , abrams said the studio ended up using pre-existing content instead . " he was very generous to say , ' whatever makes the movie better , i 'm happy to help out , ' " abrams said . upon watching the film , ign editors have noted you hear part of yoda 's empire strikes back line , " its energy surrounds us and binds us , " in the scene with rey and the lightsaber .  what did you think of star wars callbacks to the prior films ? let us know in in the comments and then be sure to watch our force awakens spoilercast .  while you 're at it , you can head over to ign 's star wars hub for even more on lucasfilms ' beloved cinematic universe .  alex osborn is a freelance writer for ign . you can follow him on twitter and youtube.