Min. Dissanayake expresses views on the SLFP and the former ...
http://newsfirst.lk/english/2016/02/min-dissanayake-expresses-views-on-the-slfp-and-the-former-president/128486

Min . Dissanayake expresses views on the SLFP and the former president  The Sri Lanka Freedom Party expressed views regarding the meeting of local government representatives in Negombo , convened by former president Mahinda Rajapaksa .  Treasurer of SLFP , Minister S.B. Dissanayake stated that around 50 persons were sent for the meeting as they have photographs of each individual . He added that the actual number is not " 1400 of the 1447 " as a total of only 551 former Pradeshiya Sabha and Urban Council members , including Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen had attended the meeting .  Minister S.B. Dissanayake also commented on the party chairmanship and noted that Mahinda Rajapaksa claims that the powers of the Executive President were used to take over the party leadership from him , which is completely false .  He added that the two laws included by Mahinda Rajapaksa to the constitution hitting out at Chandrika Bandaranaike backfired on him .  He went on to note that they convened the Party 's Central Committee where it decided to suspend the membership of the General him , after which brought Mahinda Rajapaksa back as the Chairman of the party .  Explaining further he added that two crucial issues cropped up . One with Shiranthi Rajapaksa and the MP Namal Rajapaksa as they and spoke to President Maithripala Sirisena about the issue .  There were attempts to arrest them over those two issues . But the President said that he will not interfere in the investigation process but urged that a first lady of country should not be arrested in such a manner .. This is when the two presidents met quite urgently and signed the resignation letter .  The Minister also spoke about the attempts to split the party .  He stated that the sole aim of Basil Rajapaksa , who has taken the forefront to split party , is to put the party in the opposition for the next 15 to 20 years , and leave the members of our party helpless .