Home ¯ Features ¯ Dedicated to the Girl Child
http://www.island.lk/index.php?page_cat=article-details&amp;page=article-details&amp;code_title=153277

dedicated to the girl child  october 6 , 2016 , 9:19 pm  october is a special month for children . it dawns with the world children 's day ( which falls on october 1 ) . it is also the national reading month , back to back the national literary month ( which is september ) , encourage children to " read to conquer the world " all the books they were gifted with the previous month . and since 2012 , world celebrates the international day of the girl child on october 11 , thus bringing the special needs of the girl child to the forefront .  background  on december 19 , 2011 , united nations general assembly adopted resolution 66/170 to declare october 11 as the international day of the girl child , to recognize girls ' rights and the unique challenges girls face around the world .  the international day of the girl child focuses attention on the need to address the challenges girls face and to promote girls ' empowerment and the fulfillment of their human rights . 's international day of the girl ( 11 october ) is girls ' progress = goals ' progress : a global girl data movement .  adolescent girls have the right to a safe , educated , and healthy life , not only during these critical formative years , but also as they mature into women . if effectively supported during the adolescent years , girls have the potential to change the world -- both as the empowered girls of today and as tomorrow 's workers , mothers , entrepreneurs , mentors , household heads , and political leaders . an investment in realizing the power of adolescent girls upholds their rights today and promises a more equitable and prosperous future , one in which half of humanity is an equal partner in solving the problems of climate change , political conflict , economic growth , disease prevention , and global sustainability .  as the global community launches the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) for implementation over the next 15 years , it is a good time to recognize the achievements made in supporting young girls , while at generation of adolescent girls , to truly fulfill their potential as key actors in achieving a sustainable and equitable world . ( un communiqu ? )  maithree bawana -- for the safety of all  by darshi ( via email )  it is with interest i read the article on " in-flight mindfulness : meditation while travelling " that appeared in the " health &amp; society " of 23.09.2016 . this is a very helpful article for those who are stressed while travelling .  i practice maithree bawana and thought i would share my story with you . this form of meditation is very soothing and can even transform your personality in a positive way .  the background to maithree bawana pursued by me is as follows . i used to think about how people were so engrossed in themselves , their children etc. to the extent that the well being of others just simply did n't count . for example close to the exams of your child , you will go and make vows and seek blessings for your children to pass , or pray for is away on a trip or is late coming home in the night . what about the safety of the children of your friends , colleagues and others all over the world ? children are the most innocent and beautiful , but what about their well being and safety ? is it only your child that has to be safe and do well ?  having this in mind , i started meditating for the happiness , health and well being of all humans , that there will be peace among all human beings , that all human beings will be blessed . these are the vibrations i send , while travelling in heavy traffic , before going to sleep etc. for example while i go to work or when returning from work ( driven by my driver ) when i see a couple on a motor bike with a child , or i see a boy recklessly riding a motor bike , i sent positive thoughts for the safety and well being of the family in case of the former and also safety of the latter adding that he may so recklessly . in this manner , when i see people on the road , i close my mind and send positive vibrations of health safety and well being to them .  when i hear of a patient who is seriously ill , i send these positive vibrations for his or her well being , i 've done it through the night while awake and semi awake . i do n't claim to have magical powers but i have seen that all those times the patients have come out of it . maybe it was a coincidence.it has also made a stress free , calm and peaceful atmosphere for me . so i like to believe that not only me but all the living beings the world over have benefited by my positive thoughts sent to the universe .  reducing the ages of marriage and consent -- to be or not to be  while sri lanka celebrates the international day of the girl child on october 11 , a matter concerning the girl child hinges on policy level , with a possible undertone of u-turning the achievements hard to reduce the existing ages of marriage and consent .  according to sri lankan law , the legal age of marriage stands at 18 for both girls and boys . the age for consent for girls is 16 , thus indulging in sexual intercourse with a girl less than 16 years , even with her consent amounts to statutory rape in sri lanka , for which the liability is a jail term amounting up to 10 years .  commenting on the issue dr. deepika udagama , chairperson of the human rights commission of sri lanka ( hrcsl ) , recalled the history behind the move to increase the ages of marriage and consent from 16 to 18 years and from 14 to 16 years , respectively .  " it was in 1995 that the laws pertaining to these ages were increased via amendments to the penal code . at that time there were lot of concerns about issues like teenage pregnancies and child abuse . lot of consultations were made with medical professionals , child psychologists etc. prior to this move . this whole issue was about increasing about her own life . in my opinion this is an issue not to be settled by lawyers or policy makers in isolation , but by medical professionals . this is a medical issue and involves understanding child 's health , wellbeing and psychology " , dr. udagama who was an ardent proponent of the issue since way back in the early 90s captured the antecedent factors that led to the 1995 law amendment succinctly .  dr. udagama remarking on the capacity of a girl child to make correct decisions about sexuality . " what is the right age a child can make a decision about sexual activity ? she would fully appreciate the consequences of having sexual relations ? consequences on one 's own life , education , burden of bringing up a child " , thus reiterating the importance of a girl being able to make correct decisions about her life .  she further highlighted the importance " reproductive health " for adolescents .  " we do n't talk about sexual relations in open . we do n't have proper reproductive health education for our children and large , teachers were reluctant to talk about " sex " . there were interventions by parents . they did n't like this subject being discussed in schools . the point is , this is about life , to prepare these youngsters to face complex situations in life " .  commenting on children 's eagerness to " learn about the secrets of life " in sly , dr. udagama noted , " yet the children are constantly communicating about these things in facebook , mobiles etc . even in the most remote places in the country , the modes of communication are readily available , accessible and instantaneous " .  marriage is no solution  surfacing laxity of present law and the tendency to see marriage as the only way out for an underage girl once pregnant , dr. udagama identifying the " hazy area " between the ages of 16 and 18 commented , " if the girl is less than 16 it is statutory rape and carries a minimum penalty of 10 year imprisonment under the penal code . here the consent is irrelevant as the but if the girl is between 16 and 18 , then the parents face a difficulty in giving the daughter in marriage to the " rapist " as the minimum age of marriage is 18 . this is one reason for the " push " to bring the age of marriage down " .  bringing research experience to good use dr. udagama commented , " here i 'm speaking in the capacity of an academic who have studied this issue for years . the problem arises because we envisage marriage to be the solution to this problem . the salvation for parents and everybody lies in marrying off the girl . but the question is to whom ? he could be a man who is not ready to marry . he may have just wanted to have fun . he could be already a married man . he could be a very young boy himself . so , how can marriage be the solution ? "  reproductive health -- the solution  dr. udagama further elaborated , " in my opinion , the solution to the problem is to ignorant about this issue . people do n't know the difference between the age of consent and the age of marriage . that is because our traditional understanding that one would have sexual relations when once married only . but obviously the reality is far from that . these laws were brought in not to preserve any cultural norms or whatever , but to address the reality and protect the girl child " .  she further added , " you should try to regulate it through law to protect those who are ignorant about it and to bring in a sense of responsibility about the issue " .  dr. udagama emphasized , " there should be a good public campaign to educate the parents and the community at large , about the consequence of teenage pregnancies and other social consequences . that might not prevent people from having sex . but they will understand the consequences . it will tell young people to be responsible about themselves , and to protect themselves .  elaborating on the need of good support systems to address the issue , " from is how we are going to look after her in the society . can she continue to have education ? what are the support systems available for her ? in fact two children in this case - the new born child and the child mother . what would be the available system to support the girl if she gives up education in favour of marriage ? what are the vocational training possibilities available for her ? these are the things now we have to look at as a compassionate society . not in a manner blinded by ancient traditions " .  the need of a monitoring system  counting on her wealth of experience dr. udagama brought in another hitherto less talked about dimension of the problem to the fore , " on the other hand , who will monitor whether the support systems will continue , even after the girl is given in marriage her ability to fulfill her life ? thus we need a good monitoring system to ensure that the support systems will continue " .  putting the icing on the cake dr. udagama was quite see a problem with these ages 16 and 18 . both should remain as they are . i do n't see any contradiction there " .  so much so that on the same lines dr. natasha balendra , chairperson national child protection authority ( ncpa ) opined the need to maintain the law related to minimum age of marriage and consent as they are at present . already shouldering the burden of protecting the children from all forms of harm , from verbal , physical to sexual along a long continuum , dr. balendra tended to see the ground realities . " there could be certain difficulties at the ground level due to teenage pregnancies and girls between the ages of 16 and 18 eloping with men . with regard to the girls between the ages of 16 and 18 , as they can not get married legally , there are many social issues they face in terms of financial security and social repercussions of having an illegitimate child " .  yet dr. balendra opined , " bringing the age of marriage down will have a very negative impact on girl 's education prospects , career prospects , on her associations with peers . and also our research has shown that these early marriages do n't last long . they tend to break early . also there is a greater incidence of violence , both sexual and physical " .  with regard to the age of consent dr. balendra stressed the importance of recognizing the evolving capacity of children , and specially the girls . thus , she saw it as , " a case of empowering the girls to make the right decisions " . she added that , " a large majority of child abuse cases that are prosecuted are in fact statutory rape cases . so when we talk about delays and backlog of cases , and if we increase the age of consent we could see that the number of these cases increasing exponentially . thus , we should have legal changes that address the issues people face at the ground level " .  also stressing on the importance of adhering to bright line rule with regard to statutory rape dr. balendra observed , they are , it is of paramount importance sticking to the bright line rule without any discretion . in the case of underage children , attempts to bringing down the age of marriage and marrying off the " victimized " child will be futile as marriage is not the panacea for this complex social problem " .  empower the girl child  dr. balendra reiterating the importance of education and empowerment of the girl child , " what we suggest really are the things like educating on reproductive and sexual health and contraception . we need to educate the young people to make their own choices without succumbing to pressures , pressures to engage in sex . the girls need to be empowered on matters relating to their sexuality " .  even dr. balendra saw that " early marriage " is not the answer to the problem of a girl of 16 to 18 year age group becoming pregnant . " sri lanka , among the south asian countries , has one of the lowest rates of early marriage . therefore bringing the minimum age of marriage down will we have gained in terms of social and health development . even in the cases where the girl is pregnant , bringing the age of marriage down will not solve the problem as marriage is not the solution to this problem . there are number of negative consequences of marriage these girls could face . these include the loss of their capacity to have education , in formal schools or in vocational training " .  advocating an attitudinal change in society , she stressed the need of " educating the society not to treat these girls and their children as " pariahs " .  social interventions  stressing the need for social intervention dr. balendra envisaged the need to focus on the parents and the less privileged segments of the society . " many of these children could be from low income families . their parents could be from low education backgrounds thus triggering a vicious cycle . so , awareness generation among these parents about the closeness and intimacy with their children too need to be inculcated " .  on one last note dr. balendra identified opportunities intervention , sans laying hands on the current benchmarks relating to age of marriage and consent , as the viable options for addressing the " unmet needs " of adolescent health in sri lanka .