Kashmir Imbroglio
http://www.island.lk/index.php?page_cat=article-details&amp;page=article-details&amp;code_title=153275

kashmir imbroglio  ( this is an abridged and up-dated version of chapter 8 of g. h. peiris , ' political conflict in south asia ' ( 2013 ) - a monograph published by the university of peradeniya . )  ' kargil war '  there have , of course , been the periodic fluctuations of this trend . in 1996 elections to the state legislature were conducted after the indian army had established a measure of control over political violence . the ' national conference ' led by farooq abdullah ( who had succeeded his father sheikh abdullah in 1982 ) formed the j&amp;k government in coalition with the indian national congress . this brought about a brief spell of near-normality in the ' vale ' and the jammu areas . the relative calm ended with the outbreak of the ' kargil war ' in the summer of 1999 .  several published accounts ( of which there are many ) of the circumstances that culminated in the kargil war begin with a reference to the fact that the ' simla agreement ' of 1972 of control ' in the karakorum-saltro ranges undefined , permitting pakistani troop movements in that area , often in the guise of " mountaineering expeditions " . these intrusions were followed by an indian military campaign codenamed ' operation meghdoot ' launched in march 1984 which enabled india to gain effective control over a large part of the siachen glacier , a geomorphic formation constituting a strategically important mountain pass located at the territorial convergence of india 's jammu &amp; kashmir , pakistan 's azad kashmir and china 's ' autonomous region ' of xinjiang .  in may 1999 pakistan attempted to establish a series of military encampments in the rugged and desolate mountainous tracts overlooking the siachen pass . this was seen in delhi as a sinister military intrusion that disrupted the status quo , and as an attempt to sever the highway link between sri nagar and the township of leh located in indian ladakh . this , was also interpreted by the indian defence authorities as a step towards expanding pakistani territory in ladakh . accordingly , india responded with a massive military retaliation that took the encampments , and the induction of a large army into the disputed area already held by its forces . over the next three months there occurred fierce clashes between the two sides in the course of which india gradually gained the upper hand . by mid-july , pakistani troops had been driven back well beyond the ill-defined frontier . the war , despite heavy losses on both sides ( caused by frostbite as much as bullet wounds , it is said ) resulted in india establishing firm military control over the entire siachen area . its greater impact was , of course , the further embitterment of indo-pakistan relations .  soon after the kargil war there was once more a barely perceptible lull in terrorist strikes within j&amp;k . this was a prelude to an unexpected unilateral ceasefire by some of the islamic militants , followed by the usual ' kite-flying ' and preliminary communication in the course of which there emerged a spectrum of mutually irreconcilable negotiating stands .  multiplicity of conflicting stances  at one end of the spectrum were certain terrorist groups such as the lashkar-e-taibyya . they took the stand that negotiation is futile , unless it is tripartite involving representatives of india , pakistan and the " freedom fighters " . what the groups that had pioneered the ceasefire declaration ( mainly hizbul mujahideen and harakat-ul mujahideen ) demanded was an internationally monitored plebiscite conducted in kashmir without the presence of the indian army designed to ascertain what the kashmiri people really desired . the negotiation stance of farooq abdullah , leader of the ' national conference ' , was that kashmir should be permitted to revert back to the 1948-1953 status in which delhi 's authority would prevail only over j&amp;k 's foreign affairs , defence and inter-state communication . islamabad did not endorse any position which deviated from the principle of kashmir being a part of pakistan . delhi rejected all these demands , reiterating the non-negotiability of india 's sovereign rights over j&amp;k . needless to say , serious negotiations never got off the ground . there was , once again , an upsurge of terrorist strikes and retaliatory law-enforcement violence that persisted well beyond the turn of the millennium .  strength to become the deadliest among the islamic terrorist groups of the region . gruesome acts of violence for which the let ( sometimes in collaboration with other terrorist outfits like the jem ) is believed to be responsible are : the massacres of civilians ( of the ' pundit ' clan ) at wandhana ( kashmir ) and soshur samachar ( jammu ) in 1998 , chittisinghpur ( kashmir ) in 2000 , kuluchak in 2001 , madimarg in 2003 , and varanasi ( bihar ) in 2005 , and doda ( kashmir ) in 2006 ; the attacks on the red fort ( 2000 ) and in the precincts of the lok sabha ( 2001 ) ; several bombings of commuter trains and " serial blasts " in mumbai ; and , the most devastating of them all , the multi-pronged attack on downtown mumbai on 26 november 2008 .  there is no doubt that throughout this period it was the massive deployment of military and paramilitary forces by the central government of india that kept the insurrectionary groups in j&amp;k at bay . according to estimates furnished intelligence compendium , 2002 : 216 ) , by early 2000 , indian military manpower permanently stationed in the state is likely to have been 300,000-400,000 , not counting the strong j&amp;k police forces operating under military command . against the backdrop of frequent terrorist attacks , the large-scale presence of an army vested with ' emergency powers ' ( under the asfpa , referred to above ) has all along had a profound impact on civilian life . it is not possible to ascertain the credibility of reports on indian army atrocities frequently broadcast by the pakistan media and about which certain ' human rights ' outfits maintain a cacophony of protest . an independent analyst of electoral politics in j&amp;k have asserted that recent elections to its state legislature which many indian observers consider as representing a successful steps towards democracy have , in fact , been " polls conducted under the shadow of 700,000 indian guns " . they refer in particular to " threats , intimidation , arbitrary arrests and widespread rigging " by military personnel , acting at the behest of the government of india , of j&amp;k .  terrorism in kashmir : internal and external facets  more than one-hundred militant groups are believed to operate in jammu and kashmir ( j&amp;k ) . quite often , their identity markers and their specific affiliations are indistinct . they are known to operate either individually or in tandem with other groups . those that have often appeared in the limelight of international news for their terrorist attacks in the past two decades are : hizbul mujahideen ( hm -- " freedom fighters of god " ) , harakat-ul-mujahideen ( hum -- " holy war movement " ) , harakat-ul-ansar ( hua -- " supporters of holy war " ) , lashkar-e-taibyya ( let -- " army of the pure " ) , and jaish-e-mohammed ( jem -- " army of mohammed " ) .  most of these groups came into prominence after the outbreak of the kashmiri secessionist insurrection in 1986 . for instance , the hum made its presence felt in j&amp;k after the soviet-afghan war that ended in 1989 . it brought with it a large supply of arms and manpower from the 1993 to become the most feared terrorist group during the early years of the insurrection . it is believed to have been involved in some of the bomb attacks in indian cities that followed the destruction of the babri mosque at ayodhya in 1992 . throughout that decade , and even thereafter , it conducted sporadic attacks on hindu communities in the kashmir valley and the jammu area , launched random guerrilla strikes on indian security forces , disrupted essential services , carried out raids and abductions , and , in 1999 , hijacked the air india flight 814 in a successful blackmail operation against the government of india .  according to ' jane 's sentinel ' ( 2002:245 ) and other sources , the larger among these terrorist groups are ' multi-national ' in composition -- their cadres including fighters from pakistan , afghanistan , bangladesh , yeman , sudan , saudi arabia etc . they receive funds and other forms of support from some of the oil-rich countries in west asia , and , allegedly , clandestine sponsorship from the government of pakistan . some of these groups proscribed ' students ' islamic movement of india ' , and of west asia such as the ' al qaeda ' and the ' islamic state in iraq and syria ' ( isis ) .  like many other terrorist groups of the region , they engage in clandestine transactions in narcotics and arms , and have fraternal contact with rebel outfits elsewhere -- especially in south- and southeast asia . for instance , as shown by an indian analyst ( cited in peiris , 2002 : 110 ) in 1994 , the hua mobilized the liberation tigers of tamil eelam ( ltte ) in the delivery of a shipment of weapons from pakistan to the moro rebels in southern philippines and , in return , supplied the ltte a consignment of surface-to-air missiles .  the latest upsurge of violent conflict in kashmir was triggered off by the killing of the commander of the hizbul mujahideen in the course of security operations of the indian army in july 2016 . from indian perspectives the mass protests that ensued were so ominous that the retaliation directed by delhi under the cover has killed and injured many civilian inhabitants of the area . the attack last week on the indian army base at uri , evidently by ' jaish-e-mohammed ' infiltrators from across the loc , causing heavy damage including the killing of 18 jawans has been such an enormous loss that prime minister modi has pledged to spearhead a diplomatic campaign to isolate pakistan in the international community , branding it as an " exporter of terrorism " . i find this display of outrage somewhat tragicomic when i recollect the same commodity being exported from india across palk strait in far greater abundance in the early 1980s , followed by intimidatory diplomatic cum military interventions , thus setting in motion armed conflict sustained over almost three decades ; and , thereafter , the callous disregard of the maritime rights of sri lanka .  dreary propsects  there is no way out of the kashmir imbroglio . various ' conflict resolution ' proposals ( extracted from many writings , and outlined below ) are hardly ever accorded even serious thought .  the plebiscite proposal the un ( implicitly reiterated by  farooq abdullah 's proposal that kashmir be permitted to revert back to the status it had in 1948-1953 .  that the loc should be formally recognised as a segment of the indo-pakistan boundary , patrolled either jointly by the two countries or by an external agency , with the areas adjacent to the loc demilitarised by both countries .  granting ' special autonomy ' ( whatever that means ) to a unit consisting of 6 districts in the vale of kashmir which presumably constitute an " exclusive homeland " of kashmiri muslims within india .  the establishment of a small independent nation-state of kashmir consisting of the entire vale of kashmir and a part of the pakistan-controlled kashmir ( i.e. 8 districts in azad kashmir ) .  as noted earlier , pakistan 's claim to kashmir ( or at least the vale of kashmir and the mountainous territory to its north ) on the basis of the basic guidelines of the ' partition ' of british india in 1947 are irrefutable in a purely ' legalistic ' sense . likewise , the rationalisations of the claim territory apportioned out to pakistan by the departing british ) , was within the pre-modern empires that had their core areas in the indo-gangetic plains , and the control of kashmir control is vitally necessary to india 's security do not lack substance . however , what the experiences of indo-pakistan dispute stretching over the past 70 years illustrate more clearly than all else is the futility of repetition of these discordant stances however well embellished they are with academic sophistry or strident rhetoric , from the viewpoint of making it possible for the people of kashmir to live in peace .  there are certain obvious considerations that tend to be ignored in the heat of debate . one of these is that in ' kashmir ' , excluding the ' jammu districts ' ( i.e. roughly , the areas south of the pir panjal range ) , 97% of the population in the india-controlled areas , and 99% of population in the pakistan-controlled areas are muslims . another is the existence of a persuasive body of evidence indicating a preference of the majority of people in these areas for is that an independent kashmir will not , in any conceivable way , be a loss to the people of either india or pakistan from perspectives of prestige , security or economic benefits .  there is , in addition , the grim reality that those who hold the reins of government in delhi or islamabad can not afford to grant concessions towards meeting the demands and aspirations of the kashmiri people , and yet survive in elected position of power . this is essentially why kashmir will remain a potentially explosive trouble-spot in asia from which terrorism can not be eradicated . in august 2013 , while tentative attempts at rapprochement were being made by the leaders of india and pakistan , the head of the ' united jihad council ' an umbrella organisation fighting against indian rule in the disputed territory , declared that thousands of militants would return ( to kashmir ) from afghanistan when the combined forces of nato complete their withdrawal from that turbulent country by the end of 2014 , and that : " the coming months and years will see a tremendous surge in realistically hope for is that , with nuclear weapons in the arsenals of both india as well as pakistan , their deterrent effect would remain the strongest safeguard for an indo-pakistani d ? tente which could withstand the shocks of extremist violence .