Relevance of surgical strikes
http://www.island.lk/index.php?page_cat=article-details&amp;page=article-details&amp;code_title=153273

relevance of surgical strikes  october 6 , 2016 , 9:14 pm  indian troops in action  by kuldip nayar  i opposed the surgical strikes across the line of control in retaliation to the terror strike at the army camp in uri because i thought it would escalate matters and get to a point of no return . but now that the strikes have been conducted , i back the government . do n't forget , george bernard shaw , who called himself the worst critic of the british government , supported it when it was in the midst of war .  india , in all likelihood , had no option . the terrorists taking shelter on pakistan 's soil and operating from there had to be punished as islamabad has not done anything to foil their activities . in the aftermath of the surgical strikes and india 's public acknowledgement of them , pakistan prime minister nawaz sharif said his country would retaliate . the attack near baramulla area was maybe what he meant by revenge .  india 's chief of air out the response to the uri attack that has claimed 20 indian soldiers is not yet over and the situation " is still live " , while remaining mum on the surgical strikes . i do n't think either india or pakistan , both nuclear powers , will cross the red line . however , escalation on the border can be controlled only up to a point and if the situation snowballs it is difficult to say what will happen on the war theatre .  the national security advisors of india and pakistan , ajit doval and nasser janjua , respectively , have spoken and agreed to bring down tension . why could n't they have done it before the surgical strikes took place ? janjua must have gauged the depth of anger in india with all political parties backing the narendra modi government . nawaz sharif , who had convened a special meeting to apprise the opposition of the situation , too , has got sanction from all political parties in pakistan to respond appropriately . opinion among the movers and shakers in both countries has become hawkish . nuclear war if it comes to that . however , common people on both sides want an end to the daily tension and hope their governments will ensure that they do not live in constant fear .  the saarc summit would have been an occasion to hammer out things across the table . but most of the regional bloc 's members have pulled out of the meeting at islamabad , saying that the climate is not conducive for saarc to meet . and there is no other venue where all countries in the region could have met and discussed the situation threadbare .  pakistan should realise that countries in the region are increasingly wary of the carte blanche given to terrorists like hafiz sayeed who are openly operating from pakistani soil . in the case of the jaish-e-mohammed chief masood azhar , supposed mastermind of the pathankot attack , india took the case to the un but china , pakistan 's ally , used its veto power to extend its technical hold on new delhi 's move to get him designated a terrorist . it was an unfortunate use stand by its ally .  as a result , the deadlock continues . the situation can escalate to dangerous proportions because prime minister nawaz sharif can at any time be overridden by the army which is directing operations from its headquarters at rawalpindi .  pakistan also has to deal with the uprising in balochistan and the attacks from afghanistan . since both do not have a full-fledged army to back them , the war would be a limited one . no doubt , the americans have withdrawn their troops from afghanistan but a small contingent has stayed back at the specific request of kabul . new delhi is now openly supporting baloch leader brahamdagh bugti , who has sought asylum in india . following his example , many balochis who are residing in europe and elsewhere will seek to come to india . this will open another front against pakistan which india can utilise to tell the world that the uprising in balochistan was like the one in east pakistan , which liberated itself to become bangladesh in 1971 . the baloch rebellion is a warning to islamabad that , the frontier gandhi , was from the pushto region . when i met him years ago his complaint was that jawaharlal nehru had not kept his promise to establish an independent country for the pushto-speaking people . nehru was helpless because balochistan was part of pakistan and he had accepted the establishment of pakistan at the time of partition . badshah khan , as frontier gandhi was called , was now a citizen of pakistan . any step from nehru would have amounted to war and he naturally was not prepared for it .  prime minister modi is a different kettle of fish . yet , his policy so far has been give-and-take . he invited leaders of all saarc countries for his swearing-in ceremony . modi also stopped over at lahore while returning from afghanistan to wish sharif on his birthday and attend a family wedding despite the furore at home . however , now the situation on the ground is different and may force modi to look at things from another perspective .  the surgical strikes are one option which he has exercised . sharif 's . even modi may not be able to control things when events take over . it 's time that pakistan pulls itself back from the abyss .  after all , pakistan should know by now that after having fought three wars -- in 1948 , 1965 and 1971rs its loss was far greater than what it inflicted on india . it had to seek the good offices of president clinton to get the pakistani soldiers , who had infiltrated india territory , back from the kargil heights in the 1990s.