From Kilinochchi to Galle
http://www.lankaweb.com/news/items/2016/04/27/from-kilinochchi-to-galle/comment-page-1/

editorial courtesy the island  april 27 , 2016 , 8:27 pm pivithuru hela urumaya leader and joint opposition firebrand udaya gammanpila has challenged newly appointed igp pujith jayasundara to arrest opposition leader r. sampanthan for ' forcibly entering ' an army camp in kilinochchi on april 16 . gammanpila is being very na ? ve . the igp can not do so for obvious reasons .  sampanthan is a member of the constitutional council ( cc ) which selected jayasundara as the igp without following any procedure or rules , which , to begin with , are conspicuous by their absence . how can the new igp act against any of the cc members who voted for him ? second , arresting the opposition leader is a tall order for an igp who has even failed to nab those who recently demolished a multi-million-rupee walking track near the wattala police station .  the opposition leader and other tna politicians have denied that they forced themselves into the army camp concerned . they insist that the barrier at the entrance to the military facility was denied by the army . however , the fact remains that nobody must enter a military camp without obtaining permission for two reasons . first , they must abide by the law . second , they must not run the risk of being shot dead .  there are times when the tna 's reaction to certain issues assumes a theatrical hue . it behoves tamil politicians representing democratic parties to act responsibly without resorting to anything that might serve the purpose of sinister elements now in suspended animation .  tna mp m. a. sumanthiran has told this newspaper that he , sampanthan and others entered the camp premises because some houses therein had not been returned to their owners . why the army continues to occupy houses belonging to civilians some of whom are said to be languishing in temporary shelters defies comprehension . it is nearly seven years since the war ended and those houses must be returned to their original owners without further delay .  there is a positive side to the kilinochchi incident . tna politicians did not dare go anywhere near ltte camps without relations with the tigers . but , they have driven into an army camp without fear of being shot while demonising the military !  one may not try to question gammanpila 's right to demand police action against those involved in the kilinochchi incident . but , the question is why there were no such strident calls for arrests when a bunch of savage fanatics unleashed violence against the muslims in aluthgama in 2014 . if gammanpila and others of his ilk had campaigned for arresting the perpetrators of aluthgama violence , perhaps they would not have had to run around like headless chickens today in a bid to re-enthrone mahinda rajapaksa , who lost the last presidential election mainly because he had alienated the muslim voters .  meanwhile , education minister akila viraj kariyawasam has rhetorically asked the media whether arrests help solve problems . paradoxical as it may sound the answer is both ' yes ' and ' no ' . arrests may not help solve the problems people are faced with , but they do certainly enable politicians to tackle issues that trouble them .  the last presidential election that the leaders of the previous government had helped themselves to public funds to the tune of usd 18 bn . if this staggering amount of forex said to be stashed away overseas could be brought back the country 's economic woes would disappear in no time . several politicians and their bureaucratic lackeys were arrested and detained , but not a single stolen dollar has so far been recovered . instead , the government is squeezing the public dry to raise funds to tide it over .  however , arrests have helped the government neutralise some of its political enemies . after being detained for many moons , an ex-mp described by the champions of good governance as the former ruling clan 's collector has switched his allegiance to the government ; he is said to be singing like a canary now . moreover , he has been appointed one of the organisers of the slfp 's may day rally in galle . one problem less for the government !  one response to " from kilinochchi to galle "  this is the most with tons of lies and tons of bogus promises.they will never survive long . already god is punishing our country . nature punish this evil govt with storms , hurricanes , deaths and destruction of humans and properties . we have a president who behaves like a cardboard sando.his heart filled with hate and revenge.disgusting speeches by this shameless leader.because of his actions my beloved homeland has become a very weak country among the nations . millions are jobless and suffering due to their bad governance . show your opposition to their actions by attending kirillopane may day rally on may 1st .  leave a reply  disclaimer : the comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the lankaweb . lankaweb.com offers the contents of this website without charge , but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within . neither the lankaweb nor the individual authors of any material on this web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage , however caused ( including through negligence ) , which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising on or accessed through this web site . all views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of lankaweb.com .  this entry was posted on wednesday , april 27th , 2016 . you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed . you can skip to the end and leave a response .