Analysis: America between Hillary and Trump
http://tribune.com.pk/story/1148882/analysis-america-hillary-trump/

The race for the White House has come down to its former resident and a loudmouth celebrity . While one is well versed with norms of international law and diplomacy , the other is very much a dark horse . Hillary Clinton is an establishment candidate while Donald 's Trump-ism is new to the Grand Old Party , or more commonly the Republican Party . The country 's first female presidential nominee has already withstood a robust revolt within the Democratic Party with the rise of Senator Bernie Sanders .  Nonetheless , US voters are bracing for a very close contest . By far , the presidential election will be the most globally followed event in history , courtesy Donald Trump 's meteoric ascent . Devoid of consistency and ignorant of the state system , the man has bulldozed every opponent in his way . However , after winning the party nomination and choosing a running mate , things may change for the better . The Republican campaign will be more coherent in conduct and consistent in policy formulations than Trump 's .  Owing to and losing to Senator Barack Obama , Hillary will have to make a few alterations , which may include embracing some of Bernie 's discourse . Though her stint as secretary of state was not the most incredible one , she set the record for racking up the most air miles . The Democratic nominee is an experienced White House insider , equally at ease with national matters and international politics .  For the next administration in Washington , the South China Sea and the Middle East will be two key areas of anxiety . Presidential debates will shed some light on how the either camp comprehends both the issues . While Hillary is least likely to continue Obama-Kerry Russia-leaning policy on Syria , the Trump side has yet to articulate its consistent stance on the matter .  Though the Democrats ' stance has been relatively softer and pragmatic on China , the Republican approach continues to be hostile . During both his terms in office , Obama has consolidated Washington 's India policy to counterweigh China in the region . The Republicans are set to up the ante is weighing in big time on either side of the race . During the 2008 campaign , Obama attacked Hillary for her relations with wealthy Indian-Americans and her support for outsourcing to India . She was also taunted as a Democrat from Indian province of Punjab . Her Indian lobbyists are sprinting to seize the opportunity this time around .  On the Republican side , there seems to be no dearth of enthusiastic Indians and their donations . Shalabh Kumar , founder of Republican Hindu Coalition , has so far raised $899,000 for Trump campaign and has set a target of $1.1 million for Trump 's presidential bid . Kumar is keen to see profiling and ejection of Muslims alongside monitoring of their religious gatherings and institutions . Much to the joy of his pro-Modi lobbyists , Trump has already branded Pakistan a ' semi-unstable ' country with nuclear weapons . He even hinted at seeking India 's help in fixing Pakistan . The so-called billionaire may be widely popular in India ; however , many believe he will act differently in the Oval Office .  On the contrary Indian-Americans , New Delhi sees her as a mature and dependable politician . Despite her chief of staff , Huma Abedin , being of Pakistani origin , the Democrat nominee has been tough on Islamabad during her stint as secretary of state . Yet , a sizeable Pakistani diaspora supported her campaign for nomination . The Clintons have had quite a few close Pakistani-American friends .  Contrary to the Indian community in America , there are few Pakistanis supporting Trump bid for the White House . However , much depends on how his camp articulates the policies as so far his statements have not only been factually incorrect but also contradictory .  With Pakistan offering economic corridor to China , Islamabad has been facing renewed ire from the US as well as India . Pakistan also supports China 's position in South China Sea . Conservatives in the US believe Islamabad will offer Gwadar as a naval base at a later stage . The likes of Zalmay Khalilzad , former Bush era top diplomat , demand denuclearising Pakistan and branding it alongside North Korea .  Undoubtedly , Pakistan-US with the likelihood of a fresh set of nuclear or security related sanctions . Either side is faced with some crucial questions : Will Pakistan be able to de-hyphenate itself from China while conducting diplomacy with the US ? Can Washington abandon Islamabad yet again , while Afghanistan is still marred with insurgency ? How far will US-India partnership help resolve the Jammu and Kashmir and water-sharing dispute ? How wise will it be for Hillary or Trump 's America to push an ally state in Chinese bloc ?  Naveed Ahmad is a Pakistani investigative journalist and academic with extensive reporting experience in the Middle East and North Africa . He is based in Doha and Istanbul . He tweets @naveed360