Chitral beat Gilgit to win Shandur Polo Cup 2016
http://pakobserver.net/2016/08/01/chitral-beat-gilgit-to-win-shandur-polo-cup-2016/

Chitral beat Gilgit to win Shandur Polo Cup 2016  Chitral -- The annual Shandur polo festival concluded on Sunday at world 's highest polo ground in Chitral . Addressing on the occasion , the senior officials of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government said that the provincial government in collaboration with Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation ( PTDC ) , was making all out efforts to promote sports and tourism while polo game will find special attention and patronage of the KPK government . He said the polo grounds of the major towns of the district including Garum Chashma , Booni , Shagram , Reshun will be reconstructed and polo players will get special package from the government so that ' the game of kings ' is revived in Chitral which ultimately promotes tourism . The three-day famous Shandoor polo festival had started on Friday ( July 29 ) in Chitral . The official of Tourism Corporation Khyber Pakhtunkhwa ( TCKP ) told APP that the festival regularly was held each year from July 7 to 9 but this year firstly due to Eid ul Fitr and then monsoons the Polo Festival is one of the big festivals in the country . The polo which is played between the polo teams of Gilgit- Baltistan and Chitral , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is experienced as a free-style polo match . The festival also includes Folk music , Folk dance , traditional sports . Polo was introduced in South Asia , by the Muslim kings in the 13th century . English word ' Polo " is in fact a Balti word meaning , " ball " . In ancient times , there was no limit to the number of players and no time limit . Which team scored nine goals first , became the winner . Today , there are six players to each side , but this is by no means a rule in local polo games . The game lasts for one hour with a ten-minute break . Chitral , Gilgit and Skardu have always played the game of polo closest to its original form . A para-gliding display in the closing ceremony also enthralled the audience . Governments of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit Baltistan had collaborated after four years to organize the provided security for the event . Chitral Scouts also put up a marching band display , which was enjoyed by the spectator . Thousands of people , including foreigners , also take part in the festival . -- APP