Oil prices down in Asia, Brent stays below $50
https://en.dailypakistan.com.pk/business/oil-prices-down-in-asia-brent-stays-below-50/

oil prices down in asia , brent stays below $50  singapore ( app ) -- oil fell in asia on wednesday after industry data showing an increase in us crude stocks added to oversupply worries and traders took advantage of a recent rally to book profits .  prices had closed higher tuesday on news that iran was willing to join calls by opec and russia for production curbs after scuttling previous efforts to reach a deal in april .  but the gains were reversed in asian trade after data from the american petroleum institute ( api ) overnight showed us crude inventories rose by 4.5 million barrels in the week ending august 19 , after falling by one million barrels the week before .  rising stocks indicate weaker demand in the world s top oil consuming nation and add to worries about a global crude supply glut .  " this jawboning ( of oil prices ) looks like it is rapidly being reversed in the wake of the weekly us api inventories number , " said angus nicholson , a melbourne-based analyst us energy department releases the official data on us commercial crude inventories later wednesday could see wti " pull back to the $45 handle , " he said in a note .  at around 0430 gmt , us benchmark west texas intermediate ( wti ) for october delivery was down 73 cents or 1.52 percent to $47.37 , and brent crude for october dropped 61 cents or 1.22 percent to $49.35 a barrel .  jeffrey halley , a senior market analyst at oanda , said wednesday s decline is due to traders taking advantage of the recent spike to sell positions they had bought earlier in the hope prices would go higher .  " for any pop up in oil prices , there are plenty of eager sellers wanting to reduce their long positions ahead of the opec meeting , " halley told afp .  members of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries led by saudi arabia and non-members like russia are to meet informally next month in algeria and are expected to discuss ways to stabilise the oversupplied crude market .  iran has reportedly " attendance does not mean they are ready to commit to a deal " .  " and when iraq and saudi arabia are producing at record levels , it is difficult to see iran being happy to produce well below their potential , " he added .  tehran had balked at joining freeze calls earlier this year , saying it needed to raise production levels which had been crippled by years of western economic sanctions , lifted only in january .