Zero-rating regime on exports vital for survival of economy
http://www.dailytimes.com.pk/business/22-Mar-2016/zero-rating-regime-on-exports-vital-for-survival-of-economy

zero-rating regime on exports vital for survival of economy  karachi : the textile , leather , sports and surgical sectors of the country have demanded the government to allow export-oriented sectors to avail zero-rating regime from april 1 .  the implementation of zero rating and ' no payment no refund ' system would revive the sector , which would ultimately benefit the exporters to compete with their rivals india , bangladesh , sri lanka and other regional exporters in the international market .  representatives of pakistan hosiery manufacturers and exporters association , pakistan tanners association , surgical instrument manufacturers association of pakistan and other prime export sectors said delay in zero-rating regime would not only make it difficult for the exporters to meet the targets but would also plunge the already deteriorating sector .  the exports of textile and leather products are declining persistently and in a state of emergency , the exporters have asked the government to execute zero-rating on exports .  due deduction of taxes , approximately 4 to 5 percent of the total amount of exporters ' consignment , purchase of their respective value-added goods , customs rebate in form deemed duty drawback , local taxes in the form drawback of local taxes and levies claims are reducing the liquidity of the export oriented sectors .  the exporters are really in a fix as their margin of profit is a meagre 4 to 5 percent while the amount of stuck up liquidity of exporters is more than 5 percent .  they said these vital export sectors are facing immense problems and hurdles , which should be removed to pave the way for boosting exports in the best interests of the country . they demanded the government to bring down electricity and gas tariff at par with regional competitors , adding that the export sector should have a separate head of account in tariff structure .  the export-oriented industries should also be ensured with regular supply of all utilities to run the manufacturing units without any interruption . the increasing prices of raw materials , high banking service charges , high export refinance rates of central bank and uneven taxation system are added barriers to the falling exports trade organisations were not consulted during the preparation of policies and neither were their recommendations included in decision making .