Johnson uses last-lap pass to win Auto Club 400
http://pak1stanfirst.com/world/johnson-uses-last-lap-pass-to-win-auto-club-400/51127

top news site  main menu  johnson uses last-lap pass to win auto club 400  johnson would put harvick behind him over the last two laps and grab his second victory of the season .  " i was passing him " , she said . " which tells me it makes me want to stick around and do this for a lot of years " . in a race kevin harvick dominated leading 142 of 250 laps , johnson somehow would have to find a way to pass harvick on an overtime restart . he has won three of his last eight races after a 20-race winless skid in his hendrick motorsports chevrolet . the field did make one final set of pit stops before the green flag , and denny hamlin won the race off pit road , setting him up to lead the race to the green flag . " i knew we had a great auto , and the caution fell at a bad time " , johnson said . i was really good through ( turns ) 3 and 4 ( turn ) 1 . " harvick has been so fast " . " i did n't mean to do that " , kahne said over his team radio . " we just saved our best for last , for sure " . " i feel that it 's tough to maintain the pace or the expectations that we have for ourselves on the lowe 's team , and i think managing that is something that we have n't done as well as we could , and starting the seasons hot and being strong and winning and doing all those things is very important , but it 's tough to carry that through the entire year " . " i 'm in a great space and really enjoying going to the race shop , going to the racetrack , working with my team . there 's just nothing like coming back to socal to chill out " . i was having a pretty good recovery day.kevin harvick , ryan newman , carl edwards , kyle busch , trevor bayne , chase elliott , joey logano , and jamie mcmurray rounded out which is a race the drivers are really looking forward to . martin truex jr . was in contention until late contact with logano , who left truex furious.on track : auto club speedway ; fifth of 33 races . johnson soared to the win with the superman logo emblazoned on his hood to promote warner bros. ' upcoming " batman v superman : dawn of justice " film . and while he does n't know how much longer he can keep it up , johnson is certainly in a good place now . " it 's easy to look at trends and say we win " x " a year , but at some point that stops , that stops for everybody . i think a lot of what 's going to dictate who is going to win the race is going to be exactly how the yellows fall " . on the lap 115 , restart , johnson blew past harvick and into the lead.big crash : kyle larson was unhurt after a frightening solo crash on the 48th lap that sent his entire vehicle flying into the air without functioning brakes , larson then headed straight to the inside of the track , hitting head-on on the backstretch wall ... danica patrick brought out the fourth caution on lap 121 when she was turned by kasey kane straight into the outside wall on the front stretch ... " it was two years ago where the 24 vehicle gordon was heads and tails the best auto on the long run , but he did n't have any short run speed and he ended up with a green-white-checker finish and was 15th or 20th " , he recalled . defending race victor brad keselowski qualified 15th . his problem might be holding the advantage at the front , as dillon has only led three laps so far this season .