Actor Hrithik Roshan in trouble over 'Pope' remarks
http://pak1stanfirst.com/entretenimento/actor-hrithik-roshan-in-trouble-over-pope-remarks/51093

top news site  main menu  actor hrithik roshan in trouble over ' pope ' remarks  to put an end to all rumours surrounding him and kangana ranaut , hrithik roshan had tweeted with a reference being made to the pope . now , from the latest reports , it looks like , hrithik has got stuck in a legal issue . a legal notice has been sent to the actor , apparently asking him to apologise for this action.the actor , in one of his tweet against kangana , has stated that he would rather have an affair with a pope than any of the women the media has been naming . " thanks but no thanks ( sic ) " . the legal notice was served by abraham mathai , former vice chairman of the state minorities commission . albany budget hung up on $15 minimum wage the state legislature is also expected to reject suny 's attempt at a tuition increase for the fall semester , cuomo said . likely within days , new yorkers will find out whether the minimum wage going through bad time , as he has once again landed himself in a legal trouble and this time for some serious reasons . while the last update in the case was hrithik and kangana slapping legal notices on each other , seems like there 's an all-new development in the case now.the tweet in question was aimed at kangana ranaut following her statement about exes doing silly things . lionel messi scores his 50th goal for country argentina had chances to extend their lead but failed to do so , while there is concern for angel di maria after he limped off during the second-half . roshan has been accused of hurting the sentiments of the christian community by his remark about the pope.mathai is now demanding an apology from roshan within a duration of seven days . donald trump rally sees protester sucker-punched while onlookers gasp he was accused last week of grabbing the arm of michelle fields , a former reporter of conservative website breitbart . a person at a trump campaign rally in arizona kicks and punches a protester being escorted out of the premises . abraham for " dragging a religious head into it ( his personal relationships ) just so attention may be diverted " . " it hurts the catholic community for whom the pope is a revered personality " .