Rajwana confers degrees on 2360 graduates
http://pakobserver.net/2016/04/17/rajwana-confers-degrees-on-2360-graduates/

rajwana confers degrees on 2360 graduates  rawalpindi -- punjab governor malik muhammad rafique rajwana on saturday conferred degrees to some 2360 students of undergraduate , masters , m phil and phd courses at the 17th convocation of pir mehr ali shah arid agriculture university rawalpindi ( pmas-aaur ) . fiftyfive students , who topped the examination in their respective disciplines , were given gold , silver and bronze medals and certificates . addressing the convention held at the university 's campus , the governor appreciated and felicitated vice chancellor dr rai niaz , management and faculty of the university on the success of the students . he said that the young researchers should play their due role for the development of the country after equipping themselves with the latest knowledge and technology . being an agrarian economy , he said pakistan needed innovative and modern solutions in agriculture for the development and prosperity of the country . he stressed that the university should continue striving hard to develop new technologies by generating practical knowledge and its use , with special emphasis on water harvesting and conservation as their long lasting aspirations and whims of their parents were being transformed into pragmatic reality , he added . he said the convocation was a hallmark for the young graduates as an opening vista of their brilliant futures and enthusiastic initiatives to serve their nation and the country . rafiq rajwana said the nation had given much from its meager resources to bring the students up to this stage of success and accomplishment . now it was their turn to pay back and pull out the nation from poverty and deprivations through their learned skills and abilities of working with full zeal , he added . he said allah almighty had bestowed upon this land with matchless blessings . the government was making efforts to enhance and upgrade the quality of education and research in the country . it was now up to the young students to take full advantage of those opportunities and enabling environment to make their mark as leading researchers in their respecting fields thereby contributing to the progress and prosperity of the society . earlier , in his welcome address vice chancellor prof dr rai niaz tireless academic pursuits . he also congratulated the parents of the students as without their support it was next to impossible achieving these degrees . he advised the students to face the challenges from the front and put their level best to achieve the targets . he said that the credit of the success of the students also went to the faculty who always tried their best to impart quality education and polish the inbuilt talent of the young graduates to bring them at par with the output of higher education institutions of international repute . he said the arid agriculture university was putting optimum efforts to bridge the gaps and convert the issues into opportunities . he said , " we have successfully indigenized state of the art hydroponic vegetable production facility and now it is ready for adoption at large by the farming community at very economic initial costs . " ambassador of south korea dr. song jong-hwan , chairman higher education commission ( hec ) islamabad prof. dr. mukhtar ahmad , vice chancellor university of gujrat prof dr. zial ul qayyum , rector nust gen. muhammad asghar , mna malik abrar , mna raja javed akhlas , mpa raja muhammad hanif , senator najma hameed , sardar naseem khan , rahat qudoosi , controller examinations , registrar , directors of campuses , directors of institutes , deans of all faculties , members of syndicate and academic council , eminent educationists , faculty members and a large number of degree holder students and their parents were present on the occasion . the governor also planted a sapling and inaugurated staff club and sports complex in the university premises . he performed the ground-breaking ceremony of institute of hydroponic agriculture and aisha hall block of girls hostel .