MQM delegates apprise corps commander of Aftab Ahmed's 'killing'
http://arynews.tv/en/mqm-delegates-ahmeds-killing/

mqm delegates apprise corps commander of aftab ahmed 's ' killing '  karachi : a three-member delegation of muttahida qaumi movement ( mqm ) headed by farooq sattar on wednesday called on corps commander karachi lt gen naveed mukhtar and apprised him of the ' killing ' of party activist aftab ahmed under custody , ary news reported .  sattar , accompanied by nasreen jalil and kunwar naveed , called on gen mukhtar at the corps headquarters here . the mqm members apprised the corps commander of the ' killing ' of farooq sattar 's coordinator aftab ahmed under the custody of rangers and the torture marks his body carried .  they also informed gen mukhtar about the details of party activists presently missing and those killed ' extra-judicially ' .  the mqm delegates requested the corps commander to hold high-level inquiry into all such killings including that of aftab ahmed .  ahmed was detained by law enforcers during a raid near mqm headquarters nine zero on sunday evening . he was presented before a judge of the anti-terrorism court on monday the atc judge about 90-day detention of seven suspects , including aftab ahmed , for interrogation .  it should be noted that mqm had claimed that the coordinator of their senior leader farooq sattar died in the custody of rangers . they had also demanded formation of a medical board to probe the cause of ahmed 's death .  contrary to that , a spokesperson for pakistan rangers sindh had said in a statement that ahmed early on tuesday morning complained of chest pain , after which he was immediately shifted to hospital .  the suspect died of heart failure at the hospital , it read .  earlier today , army chief general raheel sharif , in an unprecedented move , ordered investigation into death of aftab ahmed during rangers custody .  the army chief ordered the relevant authorities to ensure provision of justice in the case . he said a probe report be prepared inquiring facts into the death of activist and the same should be sent to general headquarters ( ghq ) .  the move was followed by the formation of a an a high-level investigation body has been formed on the orders of dg rangers major general bilal akbar to investigate the motives behind ahmed 's death , read a press statement issued by the paramilitary force today .  the committee , headed by a sector commander of rangers , was instructed to complete its probe and bring out the truth in the shortest possible time .