Mullah Akhtar death likely to enrage Pakistan
http://pakobserver.net/2016/05/24/mullah-akhtar-death-likely-to-enrage-pakistan/

Mullah Akhtar death likely to enrage Pakistan  ON Wednesday , Sartaj Aziz , Pakistan 's de facto foreign minister , told a gathering of top diplomats from Afghanistan , the US and China that the 2015 leak of news that former Taliban leader Mullah Omar had been dead for more than two years " not only scuttled the Afghan peace process , it also let to the splintering of the Taliban " . Days later a US drone fired a missile at Omar 's successor , Mullah Akhtar Mansoor , as he travelled in the southern Pakistan province of Balochistan . The attack , which the Taliban have confirmed killed Mansoor , marks an extraordinary escalation of a drone campaign that appeared to be winding down and has in the past been a running sore in US-Pakistani relations . The government in Islamabad did not immediately respond to the news whilst Pakistan 's media , which often follows directions from the country 's security establishment , did not rush to condemn the strike as a breach of the country 's sovereignty . Many of the country heavily Pakistan invested in helping Mansoor secure the leadership of the Taliban after a power struggle broke out following the announcement of Omar 's death . Islamabad has long argued the only way to end the war in Afghanistan is to try to coax a united Taliban to the table for peace talks . It has dismissed calls to take military action against an insurgent group whose support networks operate freely in Pakistan , saying attempts to start negotiations must be exhausted first . But amid deadly Taliban attacks , including an April suicide bombing in Kabul that killed 64 people , the Afghan government has run out of patience with Islamabad and has demanded firm action against Taliban networks based on Pakistani soil . The killing of Mansoor suggests the US agrees with the demands of the Afghan president , Ashraf Ghani , that " irreconcilable " insurgents based in Pakistan should be targeted . In a highly unusual public statement about a drone strike , a Pentagon official described Mansoor as " an obstacle to peace and reconciliation between the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban , prohibiting Taliban " . But is far from clear whether Mansoor 's death will smooth the way to an end to the conflict . He has no obvious successor , though one of his two appointed deputies may assume power in the immediate aftermath . Neither is known as a proponent of reconciliation . One , Haibatullah Akhundzada , a renowned cleric from the Taliban heartland of Kandahar , is a relatively unknown figure outside the movement . According to the UN , Haibatullah is the Taliban 's former Chief Justice . Though he was seemingly close to the movement 's founder , Mullah Omar , it is unclear how much influence he holds over Taliban foot soldiers . The other deputy , Sirajuddin Haqqani , is the leader of the Haqqani network , which has risen to prominence in the Taliban in recent years and taken on a more central role in the insurgency . While the Haqqanis do not have clout over fighters in the south , Mansoor 's death could further strengthen the group 's position within the insurgency , making reconciliation even more unattainable . The killing of Mansoor happened well outside the tribal agencies of North and South Waziristan where nearly all known strikes have taken place , usually focusing on al-Qaida and allied groups . US officials said the attack took place near Ahmad Wal , suggesting it was the first ever known strike in the vast southern province of Balochistan , where the insurgency 's " Quetta Shura " leadership council is thought to be based , and one of very few to target a senior member of the Afghan Taliban . The drones were described as having been piloted by US Special Forces -- suggesting it was not a CIA operation , as is usually the case with attacks inside Pakistan . -- Courtesy : The Guardian