Accountability for Alesha's death
http://tribune.com.pk/story/1128314/accountability-aleshas-death/

The tragic murder of Alesha , a prominent member of Peshawar 's transgender community , on May 26 , represented bigotry and discrimination against the community at various levels . Alesha was firstly a victim of a hate crime when she was shot six times by assailants . She then became a victim again at the hands of the staff at the Lady Reading Hospital ( LRH ) , which wasted precious time ridiculing her and debating whether to treat her in the male or female ward , instead of providing immediate treatment that could have saved her life . This behaviour rightly invited uproar and scorn , and while an earlier inquiry into the affair was dismissed for not being impartial , the latest investigation of the matter has laid bare the facts of what went on at the LRH and has also pinned responsibility for the bigoted treatment that Alesha received . The Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa health department has now urged the LRH 's Board of Governors ( BoG ) to act on the findings of the inquiry report and take action against the negligent individuals . , Alesha could have survived . She was n't treated as an emergency patient and a recommendation to initiate criminal cases against the medical director , hospital director and professors of surgical and orthopaedic wards has been made . As LRH is subject to the 2015 Medical Teaching Institutions Reforms law , the government is unable to take direct action against those responsible . However , that does not mean that the hospital has blanket impunity to do as it pleases . The BoG must take action against the concerned individuals as recommended by the inquiry report . According to universal oaths , hospital staff must treat all patients regardless of their gender and socio-economic backgrounds . It is important now to set the right precedent against bigoted and incompetent behaviour so that other health establishments fine-tune their protocols in case they face a similar situation .