Jonathan place ministers under security watch as cabinet ...
http://www.osundefender.org/jonathan-place-ministers-under-security-watch-as-cabinet-dissolution-looms/

jonathan place ministers under security watch as cabinet dissolution looms  the presidency has placed members of the federal executive council ( fec ) under security watch in preparation for the dissolution of the cabinet . consequently , president goodluck jonathan and his wife , dame patience , have started ignoring programmes obviously packaged by ministers to curry their favour . saturday newswatch gathered that anti-graft agencies have been given green light to take an intense look at the activities of the ministers . as a confirmation of the president 's new strategy , he did not only fail to attend the launch of a rebranding project packaged by the minister of tourism and culture , chief edem duke , held at the presidential villa on thursday night , but also prevented his wife from adding colour to the occasion . the minister had placed a full page advertisement in some newspapers with photographs of the first family and himself while announcing the launch of what he called , " fascinating nigeria . " several slots were also bought on radio and television to herald the unveiling to sources in the presidency , had to send his vice , namadi sambo , to represent him at the last minute when he learnt that only two governors , liyel imoke of akwa ibom state and his benue state counterpart , gabriel suswam with three other ministers were at the venue . " three things could ordinarily have prevented mr. president from attending ; one , the fact that he would want to be careful in dealing with the ministers now that some of them would be dropped ; two , he was told the attendance was extremely poor ; and three , some concerned civil servants had through some informal channels protested that rather than use civil servants , the minister contracted the re-branding to event managers , " a senior presidential aide who does not want his name in print confided in saturday newswatch .  it was gathered that the presidency might have also begun investigation into the appointment of one mrs. chika balogun , one of the aides of the minister who signed the advertisement placed in the newspapers . mrs. balogun signed the advertisement as only allowed to appoint special assistants and personal assistants . besides , it was gathered that civil servants were not carried along in the re-branding project which was a minus point on the launch . civil service operations , according to sources close to the presidency , frown at chief executives who carry out projects without involving civil servants who are expected to continue such projects when such chief executives are no longer in office . " mrs balogun and stephany duarte that signed the advertisement are not staff of the ministry and the ministry is not actively involved . in fact , staff of the ministry of tourism and culture are angry , " ben okocha , who claimed to be a staff of the ministry , told saturday newswatch yesterday .  some nigerians , however , condemned the rebranding exercise as a waste of public fund . but , the media aide to the minister , dr. taiwo oladokun , said the rebranding project did not cost the ministry , and indeed the government , a kobo . this is not the first time the minister is using ' conference in calabar , he allegedly gave the project to an ex-beauty queen . this , some senior civil servants said , undermined the structure in the ministry . an aggrieved abubakar tanko , said : " as at now , we should be silent and see what we can do to build a good and united nigeria ; if there is indeed a need for rebranding , definitely , it is not now . it is i'll-timed . "  but a legal luminary , yusuf olaolu ali ( san ) : said : " some of these challenges are a direct result of lack of direct foreign investment . what was being launched was with a view to attracting tourists into nigeria . you will agree that in other parts of the world such as egypt , syria and south africa , where there are challenges , they all still try to attract tourists because they feel that it is a good way of making money for their countries . " everything about nigeria is not gloom ; we have hope . so , i 'm not concerned will be used to do it , but since it 's a socio-economic programme , i think it is not out of place , " he added .  nigeria immigration service recruitment form , for 2013/2014 recruitment . call mr.abubakar on how to purchase and apply . for both junior and senior cadre . the federal ministry of interior as announced the registration process and shortlist for immigration recruitment 2013 . people who really have a passion to become a perponnel and want to apply for any of this placement should for e-registration ...... or contact +2348142419588 for further enquiries and process and how to purchase a scratch card pin . empowered by the federal ministry of interior wuse zone:5 abuja.