Chinese firm to set up 1700 hectares irrigation projects in Borno
http://thenationonlineng.net/chinese-firm-to-set-up-1700-hectares-irrigation-projects-in-borno/

chinese firm to set up 1,700 hectares irrigation projects in borno  a chinese agricultural firm is to supply and install 50 units of pivot irrigation equipment to cover 1,700 hectares of farmlands in different parts of borno state .  the state government said yesterday that the projects are aimed at increasing the number of irrigation projects and cropping periods in the state .  the special adviser to the governor on communication , mallam isa umar gusau , said the agreement was reached between the government and rainfine irrigation solution after governor kashim shettima and members of the state 's agricultural transformation team , " assessed equipment , made selections and held discussions with management of the chinese firm in dalian , shandong province of china .  " the contract provided two months within which the chinese company is to customize , export and install the equipment in farms located in the three senatorial zones of the state , with particular focus on northern borno which has the highest poverty and unemployment ranking in the state .  " when installed , each of crops , covering 35 hectares of land in each functional rotation .  governor shettima said the state would place orders for more units after one cropping using the project .  he said his administration is determined to harness the agricultural potential of borno which he said is the largest state in nigeria with the most precious of natural resources which is fertile land for agriculture .  shettima added : " through our partnership with you as well as the irrigation projects we are already undertaking with jain irrigation company of india and another american company , we will turn borno green like what i have seen here in all parts of china .  " and by that , we will create jobs , spread wealth and enhance food security . our goal is to be the centre point of agriculture not only in nigeria but in sub-saharan africa and we are working very hard to achieve this . i look forward to you fulfilling your own sides of the bargain . "  the chief executive of the chinese company , mr. bai yongsheng , promised that  he told the governor and his delegation that the company supplies irrigation equipment to the united states of america , canada , saudi arabia , georgia and many parts of the world due to its insistence on high products ' standard .