The Time Is Now For Nigerians In The Diaspora To Invest Back ...
http://www.360nobs.com/2013/07/the-time-is-now-for-nigerians-in-the-diaspora-to-invest-back-home/

the time is now for nigerians in the diaspora to invest back home -- nigerian investment summit in london  nigerian government officials call for diasporans to invest in nigeria  the first annual nigerian investment summit which took place from the 28th to the 29th june in central london 's northumberland hotel encouraged the celebration of nigerians in the diaspora .  the event hosted an array of speakers pitching to the many nigerian and foreign attendees as to why they should invest in nigeria and why the time is now . speakers included oyo state governor abiola ajimobi , first lady of oyo state , florence ajimobi as well as honourable mrs abike dabiri-erewa and ms freda ruth murray-bruce the director general of bayelsa state investment promotion agency ( bipa ) .  the recurring message throughout the two day event was that diasporans should not delay if they have lucrative ideas . there was also an nddis pipeline on hand for all attendees that listed the businesses available for investment or financial registration , .  oyo state governor , abiola ajimobi , told necessary risk that , " the time is now . if we wait for everything to be right before we do anything , things will never be right . "  chairman of the british african business alliance , david smith spoke confidently about how highly nigeria is regarded despite what nigerians may think . he says , " if you 're not in nigeria , you 're not in africa "  director general ms bruce-murray advised nigerians that there is no need to bombard the governor with their ideas before something gets done and the idea progresses . she said , " you do n't need to see the governor , just go through the process . "  there were also deal rooms in which attendees were encouraged book 30 minute sessions to pitch their ideas and receive help and advice . there were also plenty of opportunities for entrepreneurs and qualified investors to network . high commissioner dr tafida ofr cfr assured attendees that nigeria is attracting investment opportunities as nigeria is the second most attractive destination for fdi .  with a wealth of investments such on hand for interested nigerians to go for , agriculture is still the most available in almost all states especially in bayelsa and oyo as the speakers referred to .  however , it was n't all about money . the second day of the summit was all about the women who were making moves to better nigeria . with the likes of oyo state first lady florence ajimobi , mrs abike dabiri-erewa and ms freda ruth murray-bruce all speaking of their experiences helping nigerian prostitutes abroad to be rehabilitated and brought back home , as well as their own stories of how an investment of time is just as profitable as an investment of money .  the full list of investment opportunities that is constantly being updated can be found on www.nddis.com  executive governor of oyo state abiola ajimobi and his wifeexecutive governor of oyo state abiola ajimobi  our team consists of a mix of the good , the naughty and the most beautiful people , just the way you want it served . we always have something to say whichever way you look at it . ) we are bound to crack you up whichever way .