Ihejirika: French Language Denied Nigeria Lead Role in Mali
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/ihejirika-french-language-denied-nigeria-lead-role-in-mali/161315/

Ihejirika : French Language Denied Nigeria Lead Role in Mali  The Chief of Army Staff(COAS) , Lt-Gen Azubuike Ihejirika , has said Nigeria 's inability to speak French Language was the main reason the country was denied the Command of the United Nations Multi-dimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali ( MNUSMA ) . He also said Army had recently established a Nigerian Army language school where French is being taught " in realisation of the fact that Nigeria is being surrounded by Francophone countries in the face of the current security challenges . "  Ihejirika , who disclosed this yesterday when he played host to the Senate Committee on Defence and Army , which was at the Army Headquarters , Abuja to ascertain the budget performance of the army from the first to third quarter of this year , said : " The steps was taken because Nigerian Army was denied the leadership of the United Nations ' force in Mali as the qualified officers could not speak French ... and that was the only factor that militated against them ( from the headship of , French and Arabic language would be taught in schools , adding that officers and soldiers would be compelled to be bilingual . According to him " one of the consideration for appointments henceforth will be being bilingual . More importantly , is the fact that cooperation with our neighbours will be adversely affected by the lack of French language . " Nigeria withdrew about 1,000 troops ( about 90 per cent ) deployed to Mali , following the appointment of Rwandan 's Maj-Gen Jean Bosco Kazura , to command the MNUSMA .  In a related development , Ihejirika has assured Nigerians that the service is ready to protect and defend the nation 's territory integrity , despite the current security challenges facing the country .  The COAS , who lamented the lack of funds , which had hampered some constituency projects , said such projects would be carried out as soon as the funds were released from the Ministry of Finance .  Ihejirika further noted that the new 7 Division of the Nigerian Army was established to take charge of the North-east because it was difficult to Borno State owing to the massive land mass .  He added that Borno State alone was bigger in size than some African countries .  Also speaking , the Chairman , Senate committee on Defence and Army , Senator George Sekibo , said the committee would take a tour of the project sites of the army to see their performance .  " We have however ... in the books , seen that they have done well , especially in the area of internal security operations , " Sekibo said .  Please leave your comment below . Your name will appear next to your comment . We 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . Your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .