Prices Of Ram Soar In Lagos
http://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2013/10/14/prices-of-ram-soar-in-lagos/

consumers in these markets were seen complaining about what they considered as unjustified price hike of ram by dealers .  they lamented that they had thought the price would be more affordable almost a day to sallah .  the smallest ram in these markets goes for n45,000 , as against n30,000 during the same period last year , while a big ram is sold for as much as n180,000 and n200,000 .  during our visit to these markets , sellers and buyers were seen haggling over the prices and unable to reach a compromise , while some who could afford them , paid and took the rams away .  a buyer at mangoro cattle market , akobi gafar , said : " i thought i could get a ram at a reasonable price being a day to sallah but the prices are high ; that is why i have to haggle for a good price .  " besides , it is not compulsory that every muslim faithful must slaughter a ram , but only if you feel blessed and want to extend said .  another buyer at moshalasi , raji rasheed , told p.m.news that he had visited many ram markets but could n't buy any because of the high cost , adding that the price of a ram this year is high .  " many buyers can not buy and they go home disappointed . i am appealing to the government to look into the problem or else many muslims will not be able to slaughter rams during this eid-el-kabir , " he said .  a buyer at meiran , poopola kazeem lamented that he ought to have bought his own ram some months ago to beat the present high cost but was financially incapacitated due to some unforeseen circumstances .  the majority of the dealers who spoke with our correspondent , stated that the major routes traders used to bring rams to the state had become impassable due to the activities of boko haram .  some of the dealers also blamed the exhorbitant price to insecurity , which has not allowed businessmen to bring rams from neighbouring countries like the republic of niger and chad . alaba rago , in ojo local government area of the state . roadside ram sellers in the area have crashed the prices of their rams , fearing that if they do not sell them between today and tomorrow morning , officials of the state government might capitalise on that and arrest them for selling by the roadside and on the road median .  most of the ram traders who spoke with our correspondent complained of poor patronage , a situation which has equally forced a drop in the prices of rams in the area .  a ram that cost n60 , 000 last week , now sells for between n45,000 and n50,000 while those that were earlier sold for n45,000 attracted n35,000 .  the survey also indicated a drop in the price of small rams , from n20 , 000 , to n15,500 .  a ram dealer in the market , yusuff madaki , complained of poor sales .  another dealer , sanni gambo lamented the high cost of rams from niger republic where they purchased them , adding that they have been recording poor sales this morning stranded at various bus stops as commuter bus drivers doubled transport fares ahead of the sallah celebrations .  p.m.news also noted that there were few vehicles at the bus stops with many of the drivers expressing frustrations .  where the vehicles were available , the fare doubled by at least 150 percent . for instance , a trip from the old toll gate on the lagos-abeokuta expressway to agege area of the state that hitherto cost between n120 and n150 was increased to between n250 and n300 .  from the toll gate to abule-egba , the fare was increased from between n80 and n100 to between n150 and n200 . some bus drivers also raised their fares to between n300 and n400 from the toll gate to oshodi instead of the n150 and n200 that they charged on a normal day .  also , a trip from abule-egba to agege that attracted n50 before the sallah frenzy , now attracts n100 .  the situation was the same from ikeja to yaba and ojuelegba as bus drivers hiked their fares from n150 to about n350 iyana-iba to iyana-ipaja rose this morning from n150 to n350 .  from iyana-ipaja to abeokuta , the ogun state capital , commuters that paid between n500 and n600 , had to pay n1,000 this morning with the drivers disclosing that the passengers may pay three times the amount during the evening rush period .  though officials of the state traffic management authority , lastma , were seen in major areas of the state , their presence only had a minimal effect on vehicular movements as therevehicles stood still on many of the roads .  those who spoke with p.m.news concerning the traffic challenge linked it to the frenzy surrounding the sallah celebration .  " we do witness traffic problems once in a while on our roads , but it has been a major problem since late last week because of the sallah celebration .  " many residents are in a rush to get all that they need for the celebration . that is why you see a lot of people everywhere , " musbau tijani , a commuter bus driver told p.m. news .  -- october 14 , 2013 , 3:03 pm . filed under news , today 's headlines . you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 . both comments and pings are currently closed .  7 comments for " prices of ram soar in lagos "  what is this brouhaha about these islamic rituals . i do n't know why people are not civilized . islam is only an arabic cult . nonsense . yoruba people with their glutonous attitude . most of the rams transported from the northern part have been fed with some quranic incantation . yorubas are not careful at all . if hausa want to destroy yorubas , it 's just a matter of poisoning foodstuffs and all spritually nurtured goat and cow they transport to yorubas land .