Ten different types of men a woman should avoid in her twenties
http://www.360nobs.com/2013/10/ten-different-types-of-men-a-woman-should-avoid-in-her-twenties/

Ten different types of men a woman should avoid in her twenties  I 'm always here to help you make less mistakes , you do love me for that yeah ?  Here are the list of men you should literally speed away from in your twenties . Why twenties ? because that 's the most sensitive decade in your life .  Oya , let 's begin .  1 . The Social media freak . If he claims to be grown up and spends a lot of time on Instagram , twitter/facebook , speed !  2 . The Flirty guy . If you constantly ask why he 's acting like he 's into every woman and if he calls every woman " honey " or " babe " or " sweetheart " or any other pet name when you should be together , speed !  3 . The Loud guy . If he is so noisy that you sometimes even cringe when you are out together , then speed ! A man should n't be loud , he is a man not directioner &amp; whatever teenage music guy . Scream all you want but when his music taste is limited to those listed above ? Pls run . Fast !  5 . The Confused guy . The man who does n't seem to know what exactly what he wants in life ? You know the ones who ca n't give a definite response when you ask where he sees himself in five years ? Yeah , that one . Run from him .  6 . The Bullet Spraying guy . He ca n't speak a correct sentence in english yet he never stops talking and he never even listens when he 's corrected . Scramble outta the door .  7 . The Complex guy . He has a complex and then becomes defensive whenever you have a talk . He blows things out of proportion and makes you sometimes even feel bad for everything .  8 . The over spender . Not like we are complaining about the man who spends a lot on us , I mean who does n't love good things ? But if he does does bad things or when he pisses you off . He does n't need to be around you .  9 . The one who is never happy for you . He does n't understand why that promotion is such a biggie and does n't get why you wo n't stop talking about it .  10 . The one who looks down on you . He does n't ever respect you . What the heck are you waiting for ?