10 exclusive ways to make your partner love you more.
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/artikel.php?ID=198230

10 exclusive ways to make your partner love you more .  love , they say is endless . so says the holy bible too but have ever wondered that this same love could fade ? to think that love can kill is also another debate . that is why we need basic tips to spice up our love relationships .  the following are 10 tips to make your partner love you more .  1. *change communication pattern* : some partners always quarrel about little issues that should not generate in such , but it does because of the way issues are confronted . for instance , asking to go out with a partner may not be said properly and a fuss is made out of it .  a good communication pattern will go like " darling , can we go out today , i feel like outing " ? whiles a bad one will go like " take me out today , i feel like outing " .  in the same way , sexual communication is also important . the approach used harm than good . for instance , waking one you rudely to demand sex will rather kill a person 's libido . on the other hand , a notice could be given earlier to prepare one 's mind and just before the act , a signal could follow .  again , preparing the bed with clean sheet and straightening nicely is also a good way to communicate sex to your partner .  2. *smell fresh always* : strong scent from the mouth , from the armpit , from the genital areas could affect the love of a partner .  these put people off and would n't want to be close to their partners . the old paste could be changed , the roll-on could also be change for a good scented ones .  if in any case a partner thinks , " oh , if you love me , you should learn to appreciate however i am , if u do n't then it means u do n't love me " , your partner will leave you . some behavioral patterns also have to change . if day , try twice a day .  *3 . learn to say sorry when necessary* : saying sorry heals wounds . sorry can make an extremely furious person calm down . if you do n't believe me , try it now and see the difference that make . it wo n't cost a thing to say , " baby , am sorry , it was n't intentional " or " i did n't mean to offend you , am sorry " when one does something wrong .  if you do n't say sorry and someone says it outside , your partner wo n't come back . i remember offending my partner but did n't want to say sorry because i believed it was not my fault . it generated into a heated argument which nearly broke our relationship . a simple sorry revived the relationship .  *4 . be fashionable : * a change in ones wardrobe matters . if your old clothes are still what you wear , it might push your partner aside . whatever happened to fashion ?  there are a lot of new . fashion , on the other hand , does not mean dressing ' wild ' or being ' nude ' but following the right trend of fashion that you think your partner loves .  when one fails to appear nice before a partner , he/she will find someone else attractive and that is not healthy for a relationship .  *5 . be humble* : humility does not mean ' total submission ' . i say total submission to mean that you do n't have to succumb totally because one partner is the ' breadwinner ' or ' abusive ' .  grant respect the best way you can and also say ' please ' when you have to so that a lasting relationship could be built .  *6 . be serviceable* : being serviceable in all areas matter most in ever relationship .  running errands for your partner is such a romantic feeling . it should n't be a bother at all . in the same way when it has to do with lovemaking , it is a service which should be offered to each other with : as the saying goes , " bad friends corrupt good manners " . too many friend means that there may be bad nuts among them . be careful of the friends you make and bring home , they can cause you heartbreak . it is said that if a friend comes to pick your partner out and stay late in the night before coming home , then watch out for that friend . the same friends may also give you both good and bad advice . choose the few good ones but wise up .  8. *give gifts* : learn to shower gifts on your partner to make him/her feel that you care .  little gifts are very important and it could be given not just on birthdays , christmas and anniversaries but any given time . do this just to surprise your partner . i love surprises and i know you do too . even if you do n't , those little gifts wo n't hurt .  *9 . show gratitude* : learn to appreciate and recognize the value or significance of something your partner does greatest attitude one can acquire is that of gratitude .  if you do n't appreciate what someone does , you ca n't be grateful for it too . showing gratitude relieves your partner from guessing whether you like a gift or not .  *10 . use pet names* : special names like darling , sweetheart , babe , honey , sugar , dear , etc. , help spice up relationships . they bring about fondness , build intimacy and help remind you of who your partner is to you . even if one party is angry at the other , mentioning the name alone brings the feeling of " oh my gosh , he just called me babe " , or " oh my gosh , she called me honey " .  your relationship will not be the same after going through this . however , if there are any questions bothering you , please leave a comment and maya- exclusive will respond . chao.