Oliver Stone Made 'Wall Street' Sequel Because Capitalism Caused ...
http://www.newsbusters.org/blogs/anthony-kang/2010/03/02/oliver-stone-made-wall-street-sequel-because-capitalism-caused-collaps

Oliver Stone 's latest attack on American capitalism - " Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps " is finally hitting theaters April 2010 , twenty-three years after its predecessor . According to Michael Lewis , who interviewed the moviemaker for his latest Vanity Fair piece , Stone 's biggest problem with the sequel was making a movie based on helplessly diabolical bankers , actually watchable .  Lewis wrote that Stone - an ardent left-wing ideologue , friendly acquaintance to Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez , a moral relativist concerning Hitler and Stalin , and director of " W " and " Platoon " - felt an obligation to reverse the societal damage and unintended consequences of the first installment .  " As a vehicle of change ... the movie was a catastrophe , " Lewis wrote . It apparently inspired , rather than deterred , a generation of young men to enter the field and become the next Gordon Gekko ( the " diabolical money manager " played by Michael Douglas ) .  " I was shocked , truly shocked , when I went visit to shoot the sequel . " A million had become a billion dollars . They 'd replaced people of substance with people who made money . The Volckers had become Greenspans . "  Lewis also interviewed Douglas , who stars in the sequel as well . " We wanted to capture the hyper-materialism of the culture , " Douglas said .  Even by mainstream media and Hollywood standards , Lewis 's demonization of bankers and the financial industry is extreme . A sampling :  - " Wall Street firms have been destroyed by young men running out of control . "  - " Gordon Gekko does n't really even exist anymore ... he has become so ordinary -the hedge-fund manager - that he blends in with the landscape . "  - " On Wall Street , youth and innocence have long since divorced . "  - " It 's difficult to tell a story about the corruption of character when everyone in it is already corrupt . "  With " Money Never Sleeps , " Stone joins the long list of liberals and and unsustainable model called capitalism : " Why did I go back ? Because it 's important . It 's the collapse of capitalism and the collapse of our society . It is . Our way of life is going to change . "  Federal employees and military personnel can donate to the Media Research Center through the Combined Federal Campaign or CFC . To donate to the MRC , use CFC #12489 . Visit the CFC website for more information about giving opportunities in your workplace .