Onondaga County Executive Joanie Mahoney gives State of the ...
http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2010/03/onondaga_county_executive_joan_3.html

gloria wright / the post-standardonondaga county executive joanie mahoney gives her annual state of the county speech tuesday at onondaga community college 's storer auditorium . syracuse , ny - onondaga county executive joanie mahoney said the county may have to lay off more workers unless the economy improves rapidly . in her state of the county address at onondaga community college , mahoney said the time to do more with less has passed .  " it 's time now that we start doing less with less , " she said .  onondaga county eliminated 138 jobs in january to balance its 2010 budget .  mahoney met with county union representatives last week and explained that more layoffs might be necessary . " ... it is unfortunate that our employees are asked to share the pain , but to be fair , taxpayers are also being asked to shoulder a significant burden , " she said .  in future years , she said , she wo n't ask management confidential employees to forgo raises -- like they did in 2010 -- if the asked the county 's 4,200 employees to do without a 3 percent raise the county had previously approved . the civil service employees association local 834 , which represents most of the workforce , refused .  other highlights from mahoney 's speech :  * to curtail storm water runoff flowing into onondaga lake and its tributaries , the county will create a green improvement fund to pay up to 100 percent of the cost of installing green infrastructure on private property . applicants may receive a maximum of $100,000 per project .  * the combined city and county government economic development staffs will lease offices for five years -- at no cost to taxpayers -- in the new washington station building at 333 w. washington st. fees collected by the new onondaga civic development corp. , which issues bonds to help non-profit agencies to finance construction projects , will pay the rent .  * mahoney said taxpayers can not continue to pay for duplicated equipment for the 57 fire departments in the county . the county department of emergency management will make available for the first time takes fire departments to respond to emergencies throughout the county .  the county saved $9.4 million in 2009 through austerity measures , which included program cuts and layoffs.