Endangered wild foxes of Santa Catalina Island are rebounding
http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/unleashed/2010/03/endangered-wild-foxes-of-santa-catalina-island-are-rebounding.html

All things animal in Southern California and beyond  Endangered wild foxes of Santa Catalina Island are rebounding  March 2 , 2010 2:44 pm  A decade after a canine distemper outbreak killed nearly its entire population , the endangered Catalina Island fox is making a comeback . About 1,200 of the 1,300 foxes on Santa Catalina Island , off the coast of Southern California , died as a result of the outbreak . Now , thanks to a program to save the species and several years ' worth of fortuitous weather patterns , their numbers have rebounded . Our colleague Louis Sahagun has the details in a story Tuesday ; here 's an excerpt :  Standing beside a sign posted along a main road urging people to watch for foxes , Carlos de la Rosa , the Catalina Island Conservancy 's chief conservation and education officer , said , " Soon we 'll have more than 1,300 foxes . But reaching that number is not , in and of itself , as great an achievement as bringing them back from the brink of extinction itself . "  The population had crashed to about 100 in 1999 , when the conservancy and the Institute for Wildlife Studies launched a $2-million recovery program that includes vaccinations , aerial monitoring and education programs .  A captive breeding program here ended in 2004 , the same year the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service listed the cat-sized subspecies as endangered . About 950 Catalina Island foxes call the island home , up from 784 at this time last year , according to a recent islandwide trapping effort by conservancy wildlife biologists Julie King and Calvin Duncan .  The foxes are trapped once a year and inspected for illnesses , including an unusual , potentially fatal ear cancer that recently began showing up in older foxes .  The animal 's remarkable recovery was spurred , in part , by several years of fluctuations in the weather . An extreme drought in 2007 resulted in the deaths of significant numbers of mule deer , whose carcasses were scavenged by the omnivorous 5-pound foxes . By the time breeding season arrived in 2008 , many foxes were literally obese were having larger-than-normal litters .  Good rains the past two years triggered an abundance of fruit-bearing cactuses and a population explosion of mice , convenient prey for female foxes to feed to their pups.