Arizona Cancels SCHIP Program for Lack of Funds
http://www.medpagetoday.com/PublicHealthPolicy/PublicHealth/19133

Arizona Cancels SCHIP Program for Lack of Funds  Arizona has become the first state to cancel its State Children 's Health Insurance Program , which , like other SCHIP programs , is funded jointly by the state and the federal government .  The budget passed by the legislature and signed into law by Republican governor Janice K. Brewer eliminates the $22.9-million program , known as KidsCare , as of June 15th . The program served 38,000 children living in families with incomes between 100% and 200% of the federal poverty level ( $22,000 to $44,000 for a family of four ) .  A statement on the Web site of the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System , the state 's Medicaid agency , said simply , " The State does not have enough funds to keep paying its portion of this program . "  Brewer proposed cutting the program in her " State of the State " address in January . " As an Arizonan , as a mother , and as a person who feels great compassion for the vulnerable and less with great reluctance that I advocate a number of deep reductions in funding . . . . As governor , I have a duty to preserve State government 's fiscal integrity and to ensure Arizona 's long-term health . "  The state faced a projected shortfall of $2.6 billion in fiscal 2011 .  Arizona pediatricians were furious about the program 's cancellation . " Our elected officials have said the budget deficit left them with no choice but to eliminate this coverage , but they did have a choice and they chose to put our children 's health at risk , deny them access to a medical home and critical preventive health services , " Mary Rimsza , MD , chair of legislative affairs for the Arizona chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics , said in a statement . " This decision will increase healthcare costs by cost-shifting , overuse of emergency rooms , and lack of early intervention . "  Roland Goertz , MD , president-elect of the American Academy of Family Physicians , also said he was upset about the program 's cancellation . " care for children , " said Goertz , who practices in Waco , Texas . " I do n't know that there 's any way possible for it not to impact the health of the children that are going to be no longer covered . "  Some Arizona physicians may have to turn away children who become uninsured as a result of losing SCHIP coverage , he said . " The vast majority of physician practices are small businesses , and they have to make decisions based on whether the bottom line is met or not . . . . I think it 's going to happen because I do n't know a way it ca n't happen . "  Goertz said he hoped other states would not follow in Arizona 's path . Because of the recession , " fiscal crises are unfortunately more common , but I hope they do n't go to the extreme that Arizona has gone to . "  Jenny Sullivan , senior health policy analyst at Families USA , said that there are several good reasons why states might not be inclined , it 's not popular to cut coverage for kids , so there 's a political price . "  But more importantly , she said , " from a financial perspective , it does n't save the state very much money , " because states only provide 35% of the funds for the program , and the rest comes from the federal government . " States without a doubt are in historic budget crises , but cutting SCHIP is not necessarily the best way to save state funds . "  Sullivan said she was hopeful that some stimulus programs that are giving states additional healthcare funds will be extended . " That will give states extra money for Medicaid , which will help them with the general fund and give them more money for other things like SCHIP , " she said .  Sullivan also raised another possibility : the Senate version of the healthcare reform bill , which is scheduled for a vote in the House on Sunday , contains a " maintenance of effort " provision requiring states to maintain any children 's health programs that that situation , Arizona would not be permitted to discontinue its SCHIP program , she said .  MedPageToday is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals .  Physicians and other healthcare professionals may also receive Continuing Medical Education ( CME ) and Continuing Education ( CE ) credits at no cost for participating in MedPage Today-hosted educational activities .