Bryan Singer Wants Lots Of Magneto And Xavier In 'X-Men: First Class'
http://comicsalliance.com/bryan-singer-magneto-xavier-x-men-first-class/

bryan singer wants lots of magneto and xavier in ' x-men : first class '  director bryan singer and producer lauren shuler donner gave a lengthy interview to the los angeles times about the current status of the " x-men " films , particularly singer 's " x-men : first class . " a lot of hate is being heaped on the fact that singer wants " first class " to focus mainly on professor xavier and magneto as opposed to the younger mutants .  " just doing younger mutants is not enough , " said the director . " the story needs to be more than that . i love the relationship between magneto and xavier , these two men who have diametrically opposite points of view but still manage to be friends -- to a point . they are the ultimate frenemies . "  honestly , i 'm not that bothered by singer 's assessment . xavier is a big part of the " x-men " story and magneto is a defining aspect of xavier . i see this as more of film but not necessarily the central one . maybe i 'm wrong -- in which case , i would be annoyed -- but i 'm not getting my torch and pitchfork out just yet .  in addition to " first class " talk , the article also mentions that hugh jackman is trying to woo singer into directing a project that 's most likely " wolverine 2 , " while donner is attempting to get the filmmaker back for " x-men 4 . " sounds like singer and fox have made nice nice . via la times  welcome back to comics alliance  it appears that you already have an account created within our vip network of sites on . to keep your personal information safe , we need to verify that it 's really you . to activate your account , please confirm your password . when you have confirmed your password , you will be able to log in through facebook on both sites .  welcome back to comics alliance  it appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . to button below . you will maintain your existing vip profile . after you do this , you will be able to always log in to http : //comicsalliance.com using your original account information .