Amanda Knox Framed: Picture Hung in Italian Police "Hall of Shame ...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/amanda-knox-framed-picture-hung-in-italian-police-hall-of-shame-before-she-was-charged-with-murder/

CHICAGO , Ill . ( CBS ) Amanda Knox , convicted of murder in Italy last year , has been photographed countless times and her image featured in news stories across the world .  Yet , there is an alarming photo of the American student few have seen . The framed photograph is n't troubling for what it shows . It 's shocking because of where , and when , it was ultimately displayed .  A wire service photographer took the original shot on November 3 , 2007 in Perugia , Italy . That was a day after British student Meredith Kercher was found murdered in the bedroom of a house she shared with Knox .  The photo shows Knox , dressed in a navy blue V-neck sweater , talking with a group of law enforcement agents in the driveway of the crime scene house . The young American is gesturing with both hands , but the photo is n't a compelling action shot . It is a simple image of police listening to a potential witness .  Nonetheless , this Amanda Knox , neatly laid out on white matting paper , and put in an attractive wooden frame . Amazingly , it was then hung on a wall in the headquarters of the Italian forensic police in what can only be called a hall of shame - a photo gallery of many of Italy 's most notorious criminals who the police had brought to justice .  That was long before Knox was actually charged with murder .  " I could not believe my eyes when I saw the picture , " says CBS consultant and Chicago private investigator Paul Ciolino . " There 's a photo of Amanda Knox , an honor student from Seattle , hanging along side of photos of Italy 's most vicious killers , kidnappers and mafia kingpins . It was unbelievable . I mean , the girl had n't even been charged with a crime at the time , yet she 'd become one of the big trophy criminals they 'd bagged . "  Ciolino saw the photo display for himself when he was at the Rome forensic police headquarters in February 2008 .  the American system of justice protects -- a person is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law .  " If that is the case , " asks Ciolino , " then why is Amanda 's picture up on the wall ? Looks like she 's been singled out as guilty from the start . Especially when you consider there were no trophy photos of her co-defendants , Rudy Guede or Raffaele Sollecito , hanging in the hall of shame . It 's just her . "  The Roman forensic police literally nailed Knox to a wall just three months after she was arrested and eight months before she was formally charged with any crime .  To Ciolino , it 's a case where one picture really is worth a thousand words . He notes , " This is the forensic police after all ; the scientific cops . Their main job is to be objective . Ask yourself , were they ? Amanda 's hall of shame photo screams bias against this young American girl . She never stood a chance . "  Doug Longhini has been covering the Amanda Knox case since November 2007.