Eddy Arnold Named Rutgers Board of Governors Professor
http://news.rutgers.edu/news-releases/2010/04/eddy-arnold-named-ru-20100415

eddy arnold named rutgers board of governors professor  eddy arnold named rutgers board of governors professor  your source for university news  research provides insights into hiv and potential treatments  thursday , april 15 , 2010  new brunswick , n.j. -- the rutgers university board of governors today named edward ( eddy ) arnold a board of governors professor . the professorship was established in 1989 to recognize exceptional scholarship and accomplishment by a faculty member at the full professorial rank .  arnold is a professor of chemistry and chemical biology in the school of arts and sciences and a resident member of the center for advanced biotechnology and medicine ( cabm ) , a research and teaching institute jointly administered by rutgers and the university of medicine and dentistry of new jersey . he received his doctorate in organic chemistry from cornell university in 1982 and joined rutgers and cabm in 1987 .  " eddy arnold is recognized by experts worldwide for groundbreaking research that is paving the way to treat deadly diseases , " said richard l. mccormick , respected for his excellence as a teacher , adviser and mentor . "  arnold and his colleagues study the three-dimensional structures of molecules associated with a number of serious human health problems , ranging from infectious diseases to cancer and diseases caused by hereditary genetic defects . to date , much of the research in arnold 's laboratory has focused on the development of novel drugs and vaccines for the treatment and prevention of hiv/aids . specifically , the researchers have been targeting an essential chemical component of the hiv virus known as reverse transcriptase , providing deep insights into the virus 's drug resistance . his group 's efforts , combining structural and computational biology approaches , have resulted in new , more effective drugs that are now used to treat aids .  " cabm is proud of the honor that rutgers has bestowed on eddy arnold , " said center director aaron shatkin . " arnold and his research team are harnessing the potential of cutting-edge research tools , including x-ray crystallography and protein biochemistry , to advance our quest for cures and treatments for some of published more than 200 widely cited scientific articles and receives strong funding from the national institutes of health ( nih ) and other public and private agencies . he has received two consecutive nih merit awards , which provide long-term support for researchers who have demonstrated superior competence and outstanding productivity .  he is an elected fellow of the american association for the advancement of science and the american academy of microbiology . he has received numerous fellowships and distinguished awards , including an alfred p.sloan research fellowship , a johnson &amp; johnson focused giving award and a rutgers board of trustees award for excellence in research .