Shrinking right: How Youngstown, Ohio, is miles ahead of Detroit
http://www.modeldmedia.com/features/ytown05022010.aspx

features  shrinking right : how youngstown , ohio , is miles ahead of detroit  related tags  youngstown , ohio -- by the summer of 2002 , youngstown had lost more than 100,000 residents , more than half of its population just a few decades earlier . the city had convened focus groups of community stakeholders to find a way out . common themes came up in these groups : we 're not the youngstown we used to be ; we wo n't be that youngstown ever again ; and we need to shrink to survive .  does that sound familiar , detroit ?  a few months later , a few days before christmas , leaders planned a citywide meeting , co-convened by youngstown state university president david sweet and then mayor george mckelvey . it was to be the culmination of the focus group work . city hall had no idea how many people would actually show up . they thought a few hundred people would be a success .  youngstown aggressively promoted the event , which would take place in neighborhood that was once known for its steel barons but was becoming known for its vacancies .  the city took out ads calling everyone to the meeting --- the cynics , the pessimists , the optimists -- and used frank language , booking this as the last , best chance to save youngstown from irrelevance . the ads reminded people that others called youngstown " miserable " and " dying , " words with which we detroiters are quite familiar .  and even though it was freezing that night , the people came . they piled in , one after another , after another . in the end , 1,400 people showed up , curious to hear what could be done to change their city .  why youngstown and detroit  youngstown is smaller . four youngstowns could fit inside one detroit . its population would have to be multiplied by 12 to match the motor city 's . what lessons could youngstown possibly offer us ? it turns out , there is a lot to glean from the city 's experiences .  " what is happening throughout the great lakes region everywhere , " says hunter morrison , director of the center for urban and regional studies at youngstown state . " detroit is not alone , and it 's not failure . ... detroit is so much like youngstown . "  both cities face very real and very similar problems . a single industry powered each city 's rise , and each has seen that industry decline dramatically . both have seen their populations shrink while vacancies increase . both are dealing with tough revenue , crime and school issues . yet , at the same time , both have deeply passionate people working to improve their cities at all costs .  the cities ' story lines start out similarly . " you can take ' youngstown ' out and plug in ' detroit , ' " says youngstown mayor jay williams . " you can take out ' steel ' and plug in ' cars . ' "  what comes next is different . while , for the most part , detroit has sat idling , youngstown has put a finger on started dealing with them .  detroit has no right-sizing plan . in mayor dave bing 's state of the city address in march , he acknowledged this , saying : " we have lacked a true vision and viable plan in detroit for decades . " he 's talked about a plan , but revealed nothing aside from demolition .  with its youngstown 2010 plan and strong vision from city leadership , this small ohio city , on the other hand , has had a big head start , and it 's starting to work .  it happened one night  at the time of that 2002 december meeting , williams was the director of youngstown 's community development agency . " the spark was lit that night , " he says . " it was december , it was cold , it was close to christmas . the meeting was supposed to be an hour and a half long . we were there for three hours . we listened to ( the audience ) . they vented .  " if i had to pick the moment that building , it was that night , " the mayor says .  the audience was n't shy . most were sick of the vacancies , of the decline , tired of waiting for youngstown to change , to do something . years before , they had been told there could be a defense contractor coming in to save the city , then there was talk of a new factory , and some were still waiting for the steel mills to open back up .  " we were a community in waiting , " says bill d'avignon , director of city planning for youngstown . " we were waiting for that knight in shining armor , waiting for a blimp factory to come and save us . "  the vision unveiled at the meeting went to city council and passed 7-0 . this would become the impetus for youngstown 2010 , a citywide , community-engaged plan for youngstown 's future -- a future with roughly 70,000 people ( or less ) , not the 170,000 who lived there at the height of its boom , nor the 250,000  the bones of the plan are cemented on four tenets : accept that youngstown is a smaller city ; define youngstown 's role in the new regional economy ; improve youngstown 's image and enhance quality of life ; and a put out a call to action .  the tenets are n't exactly mind blowing . youngstown has n't loaded the chamber with silver bullets , but at least they 've had clear targets . youngstowners also approved , by 74 percent , a city charter amendment that says the city has to revisit and reassess the plan every 10 years , after the census . youngstown 2010 is a roadmap .  here darlin ' in youngstown  youngstown had a plan in the 1950s . sitting atop the powerful steel industry , youngstown expected to hit 250,000 people , and the city built out infrastructure to accommodate that number . the plan was revised in 1974 , three years before youngstown sheet and tube -- one of the largest steel mills in the world -- closed , furloughing 5,000 jobs in a weekend . locals call that next four years , would see more and more steel plants close and 40,000 manufacturing jobs disappear .  the last census had youngstown 's population at 82,000 . this year 's census will have that number even lower . " i tend to think ( the population of youngstown ) will be close to 65,000 , " says tom finnerty jr. , associate director for ysu 's center for urban and regional studies and lead writer for the youngstown 2010 plan . " we 'll be hard pressed to hit 70,000 that 's for sure . "  about 43 percent of youngstown 's land is vacant ; and , as of january of last year , youngstown had 4,500 vacant structures throughout the city .  " shrinking is un-american in a way , " morrison says . urban areas , by nature , are about growing either up or out . size and population define cities .  but does bigger define quality of life ? the youngstowners said no . " acceptance was the most significant part of that plan , " morrison says . " accepting . "  " smaller does n't mean giving up . and ( youngstown ) started to see that , " williams says . " this is a community with a great heart that has been defined by failure because of its one industry . the industry that made us great no longer existed in the way it did . but we did n't have to be ashamed of that . we were the butt of jokes and we were sick of it . "  and no one was waiting in the wings to save them .  " d.c. is n't going to come in and help us , " he continues . " maybe they 'll play a role but that was n't going to happen . there was n't going to be a blimp factory or some defense firm coming in . it was just us and we were doing something about it . "  community engagement  the youngstown 2010 plan came together in january 2005 , a little more than two years after the vision was unveiled . an audience of 1,300 was on up to this was spent educating and reinforcing the community with the tenants of the vision and enforcing the importance of having a solid plan .  youngstown 's 31 neighborhoods were grouped into 11 clusters , and meetings were held in each cluster . attendance was high . everything was transparent , and it was all on the table .  " collaboration was key to this entire process , " says williams . it was important that this was n't just a city plan . it needed to be a plan brought on by the people , enforced by the people , with city facilitation . and , that 's exactly what they got . " from the city leaders to youngstown state to the community , it was a 180-degree turn , " williams adds . " this was n't going to be another run of the mill city plan . this was going to engage . "  " the planning process was very important part of how we did it , " says morrison . " there was a lot of suspicion of politics . involving phil kidd agreed . " they allowed honest discourse , to talk about the obvious problems in every neighborhood . " kidd had started a " defend youngstown " campaign to , well , you get the picture .  a plan and a lot of land  but where does the heart of youngstown 2010 lie ? a plan that rethinks a city , let alone shrinks one , is complex , multi-faceted and damn hard to pin down .  beyond trying to diversify its economy , it is about youngstown 's land , namely what to do with the oversized infrastructure , 4,500 vacant structures , and 43 percent vacant land . ring any bells , detroit ?  in williams ' first term , he demoed more abandoned houses than the previous four years combined . youngstown , on average , had been allotting $300,000 toward demos , dropping 150 houses a year . between 2006 and 2010 , williams has averaged a $1 million demo budget , bringing down 370 abandoned , unsafe structures .  in addition , the administration also made a point to it was strategic . and removing that blight built confidence in the neighborhood , " williams says .  fresh dirt  freshly demoed lots are visible throughout the neighborhoods of youngstown . but that 's not the goal . an empty lot is better than blight , but something constructive is better than an empty lot . for example , major blight is hard to come by along market street , heading toward downtown . manicured lots with flowers , trees and rocks dot this main artery where there was once blight and abandonment .  the urban agriculture movement is growing there , too . grow youngstown not only advocates for urban agriculture , it also distributes fresh , local produce to underserved neighborhoods in the city . in a neighborhood in the south end of youngstown called idora , an urban 4h club was started . the neighborhood association , in partnership with the youngstown neighborhood development corp . ( yndc ) , is working toward creating a block-long urban garden that once was covered with blight ( among other things ) .  additionally , ysu has east side into a wetlands mitigation bank . parts of the east side look as if roads were laid over a forest and someone forgot to build the houses .  youngstown still has a lot of neighborhood blight to tackle . the city 's targeted demo list has 1,100 structures on it , but has funds to knock down 250 . " if we had $8 million we could bring them all down right now , " says d'avignon . " but we do n't . " let 's get it started  youngstown is n't done ; but at least they 've started , and they have a clear vision . what 's clear here , however , is that detroit has a lot of catching up to do , and the current administration has yet to move much beyond talk .  mayor dave bing 's land-use plan has yet to come to light . we know he plans to demo 3,000 structures off the bat and a total of 10,000 structures by 2014 . everything else has been hush-hush . we know the city , through the in famed urban planner toni griffin from newark , nj , to help the city either create or facilitate the plan . and we know , through data driven detroit ( which did not respond to multiple queries ) , the info is out there that will help with the planning . but the city still has n't unveiled a document , any language , or honest-to-goodness direction .  williams , though , says bing 's acknowledgment is a start .  " the fact that he is the mayor , and talking about it , and it 's getting so much attention , should show you the importance of it , " williams says . " we can still get our arms around youngstown . detroit is just so big ... he 'll have to break up the city into manageable projects with achievable goals . "  and that 's ok , because bigger does n't always mean better . " detroit is going to be ok as a smaller detroit , " says the mayor of youngstown . and he should know .  what 's in of terry parris jr . ' s coverage here . then take a walk through youngstown here .  terry parris jr . lives in southwest detroit and writes for model d. while reporting this story in youngstown he sampled beer from their rust belt brewery and did n't bring us any back . we 're still bitter . send feedback here .  photos :  let knowledge serve the city - youngstown state university campus  hunter morrison , director of the center for urban and regional studies at youngstown state  related content  the live6 initiative is adapting lessons learned from the redevelopment of midtown , including an anchor institution strategy , while paying close attention to residents and a unique neighborhood context .