Five Benefits of Public Gardens
http://www.care2.com/greenliving/five-benefits-of-public-gardens.html

Five Benefits of Public Gardens  Aside from the natural beauty that they provide , there are many benefits to public gardens , especially if you are a gardener , or hope to be one . The whole purpose of a public garden is to provide the knowledge and love of plants to a community , something that every gardener needs .  One very important thing you can learn at a public garden is what plants grow in your area and when they are in bloom . Paul James , host of the HGTV show Gardening by the Yard and known as " The Garden Guy " points out what a great resource they are for home gardeners .  " I truly believe that public gardens are a rich source of ideas and ? information for home gardeners . By spending a few hours at your nearby public garden , you 'll learn more about which plants grow well in your area and how to combine them ? in your own garden than you 'll ever glean from a book or magazine ( or television about public gardens is that most sell plants , making them a great source for locally-grown plants that are just right for your micro-climate . Some even have sales at different times of the year with a variety of offerings , including native plants . By supporting this local business , you are also supporting gardening in general since the proceeds go back to fund educational programs and events .  They are also a great source of information in other ways . Many of them host or house local garden clubs and societies . These groups provide a wealth of information on specific plants and flowers , ranging from African violets to roses .  There are also countless other educational opportunities at a public garden . There are classes , workshops , lectures , and book talks with both local and nationally known gardening experts , often offered free or included in the price of garden admission .  Public gardens also create awareness of the garden 's role in promoting environmental stewardship and education , plant and water conservations and education , and they pass this information down You can start taking advantage of all that your local public garden has to offer by visiting on May 7th , 2010 , which is the Second Annual National Public Gardens Day . The American Public Garden Association ( APGA ) created the day to coincide with Mother 's Day weekend , what they call the " unofficial " start of spring and a time when the environment is top of mind for most consumers .  May 7th , according to the APGA , is a " national day of celebration to raise awareness of America 's public gardens and their important role in promoting environmental stewardship and awareness , plant and water conservation , and education in communities nationwide . "  The APGA has over 500 garden members listed on its site , in all 50 states and eight other countries . They are not all botanic gardens and arboretums . There are also historical sites or homes , local golf courses , " entertainment " gardens such as theme and water park gardens , college and university gardens , and museum gardens .  Check out the are scheduled for Public Gardens Day and throughout Mother 's Day weekend .