Allen: Oil spill now 'hundreds or thousands' of patches
http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2010/06/allen-oil-spill-now-hundreds-of-thousands-of-patches/1

Allen : Oil spill now ' hundreds or thousands ' of patches  Adm . Thad Allen says the 1 million gallons of dispersant used to break up the oil spilling into the Gulf of Mexico has helped create " hundreds or thousands of patches " of oil that need to be cleaned up .  Update : The Oval has updated this post to correct Allen 's quote about the number of patches . We regret the error .  The spill is " no longer a single spill but a massive collection of smaller spills , " said Allen , who briefed reporters at the White House before heading into an 11 a.m . ET meeting with President Obama and Cabinet officials working on the spill response .  The upside is that mass quantities of oil do n't wash up in any one place along the shore , according to Allen , the federal incident commander for the spill . But finding and removing so many patches is " increasing vastly the complexity of the response , " he said .  To find the operators of 1,500 fishing boats . More Coast Guard cutters and patrol boats also are being brought in , Allen said .  Meanwhile , British Petroleum is making progress capturing oil from the ruptured Deepwater Horizon well . More than 420,000 gallons a day are now being captured and BP is moving another vessel in to process more oil , Allen said . " I think it 's going fairly well , " he said of the latest effort to halt the flow .  In other news , Allen said :  It will take four to six weeks after the leak is stopped in early August to clean up oil slicks on the surface of the water . Cleaning up marshlands and restoring ecosystems will take years , he said .  He plans to meet with BP officials to discuss speeding up their claims process for individuals and business owners affected by the spill . " We 'd like them to do it a little faster , " he said .  At least 120 linear miles of shoreline have been affected by the spill . Brent Jones . For publication consideration in the newspaper , send comments to letters@usatoday.com . Include name , phone number , city and state for verification . To view our corrections , go to corrections.usatoday.com .  Approval ratings , 1945-present  About David Jackson  David 's journalism career spans three decades , including coverage of five presidential elections , the Oklahoma City bombing , the 2000 Florida presidential recount and the 9/11 terrorist attacks . He has covered the White House for USA TODAY since 2005 . His interests include history , politics , books , movies and college football -- not necessarily in that order . More about David