The Risks of Fiction: On The New Yorker Writers Under 40 List
http://www.themillions.com/2010/06/the-risks-of-fiction-on-the-new-yorker-writers-under-40-list.html

The Risks of Fiction : On The New Yorker Writers Under 40 List  Back in 2003 , I decided to start reading the fiction in The New Yorker consistently . Up until that point , I 'd read the weekly fiction offering only if it happened to be something by a writer I particularly liked .  Part of my motivation had to do with my own ambitions as a fiction writer ; another part had to do with my high school teaching job , which included a course in Reading and Writing Fiction . I thought maybe , by studying closely what the magazine was publishing , I 'd get a better sense of just why my own stories were getting unceremoniously rejected everywhere I sent them ( with the minor exception of a brief but kind note scribbled at the bottom of a form rejection from McSweeney 's . ) If not , at least I 'd maybe come away with some good stories to teach in class .  In the first few months of the project , I encountered some great pieces ( an excerpt from his novel Old School ) , Maile Meloy 's " Red From Green , " and Lara Vapnyar 's " Love Lessons , Mondays , 8 a.m . " And I found that , having preemptively committed myself to reading each story , I sat down with a helpful patience , an openness to the experience and to the writer 's art .  The summer of that first year , I went back to an old issue I 'd kept tucked away on a shelf -- the one dated June 21 &amp; 28 , 1999 . This issue was designed by rock-star book designer Chip Kidd . ( Incidentally , it 's the only issue in the magazine 's history whose pages have artwork that bleeds to the edges . ) The cover features an illustration of Chris Ware 's character Jimmy Corrigan on a beach , looking out at the sea . Scrolled down the page are twenty first sentences -- from stories written by the twenty authors chosen to represent what editor Bill Buford , in his introductory comment , called " the twenty names and the not-so-obvious , those who are only just now crossing a threshold of literary recognition and those who have been at home in it for some time . "  I 'd dipped into this issue when it first came out . I had liked the Sherman Alexiepiece and the David Foster Wallaceone , but set the magazine aside after being unmoved by a couple of the others . Now , though , I dug back in and found more to like -- a tense and mysterious story by Chang-Rae Lee , a wicked little one by Antonya Nelson , and soberly masterful stories by Edwidge Danticat and Jhumpa Lahiri . I found that the issue included an excerpt from Tony Earley 's gentle , pitch-perfect Jim the Boy , a novel which I 'd read and loved .  Over the next seven years , I continued to read the New Yorker fiction fairly regularly . Some years I read more or less everything , while other years I took in only about half of the stories . I began to catalog my reactions in a spreadsheet . . I made up enough bonus-reading quizzes on stories I liked that I was able to offer one per day to my Reading and Writing Fiction students . I sat down and formulated my own criteria for evaluating fiction . I branched out into other sources of fiction , subscribing to smaller magazines like Epoch , The Gettysburg Review , and the Virginia Quarterly Review .  I came to recognize , though , that reading magazine fiction is a crapshoot . I think that 's why many New Yorker readers rarely read this part of the magazine . When you read a piece of nonfiction , you know what you 're getting into , and you know you 'll come away from the experience with something tangible -- some information or perspective on the world . And you can stop midway through and still have something to take with you . Fiction does n't work that way , at least for me . It 's like sex -- uncomfortable if abandoned midway through . The rewards of fiction -- the ecstatic transport when you 're pulled into the world of -- can be greater than those of nonfiction , but you can also finish a story angry that the writer has just wasted 45 minutes of your life that you 'll never get back .  Given the risks involved in reading a piece of fiction , it helps to have someone whose taste you trust to limit the pool . Larry Dark became that type of guide for me in the O. Henry Prize collections from 1997 to 2002 , which include dozens of stories that blew me away . The New Yorker fiction editors serve the same purpose . Though I do n't dispute that stories are published in smaller magazines that I would like better than a healthy percentage of the stories published in The New Yorker , I simply do n't have time to read all those little magazines . The New Yorker 's batting average is high enough -- and it publishes enough heavy-hitters -- that it 's as good a section as any to stand in if you hope to catch a home run .  As the literary critic Barbara Herrnstein Smith has argued an arbitrariness on both a personal and a society-wide level . Yet we naturally make such judgments . We have to do so , simply to avoid being drowned by the deluge of written material that swamps us . Our literary judgments also help us define ourselves and our culture . Who am I ? What do I like , and why ? What vision of the world do I share ? And who are we ? What do we value ? What stories do we want to hear about ourselves , what will our culture admit into its awareness ?  So that 's the context in which I 'm approaching this week 's New Yorker , in which the fiction editors offer , eleven years later , a new group of 20 writers , all under 40 years of age , as the future of fiction in America . It 's an effort to shape a literary culture . And it 's an effort by people whose taste I generally trust .  Overall , though , the new list does n't immediately excite me , I must say of stories that I greatly admire , and several of the others have written stories that I thought were good . But , to return to the sexual metaphor of reading fiction , with some of the other writers on the list I 've had one-night stands and never hooked up again . Others , sad to say , have fallen victim to episodes of literary coitus interruptus .  The fact is , this past year I 've gotten a bit impatient with New Yorker fiction . Busy with other reading projects , I 've slipped back into my old habits -- reading onlystories whose authors particularly grabbed my interest .  But -- and this is another danger of magazine fiction -- it 's all too easy to misjudge a writer harshly simply on the basis of one story . Like the 1999 issue , this one , I hope , will redirect my attention to worthy writers whom I may have unfairly written off .  Despite the periodic disappointments of reading fiction in magazines , there 's a unique magic to the experience . There 's the writers . There 's the joy of beginning a story by a writer you 've never read and suddenly realizing that you 're encountering something great . It 's like being struck by lightning , set suddenly afire with pleasure . No other reading experience can turn a chance hour into sheer delight in quite this way .  Say what you will , The New Yorker is one of our culture 's most stalwart curators of this type of literary experience . For that reason , its editors ' vision of the future of fiction is worth considering . It 's my hope that , like the 1999 issue , the 2010 version will include some surprising treats that open up new readerly enthusiasms for me .  Post a Response  Comments with unrelated links will be deleted . If you 'd like to reach our readers , consider buying an advertisement instead .  Anonymous and pseudonymous comments that do not add to the conversation will be deleted at our discretion .  NameE-mailWebsite ( optional ) Comment  The rewards of fiction can be greater than that 're pulled into the world of a story , given a new window into human experience -- but you can also come away from a story angry that the writer has just wasted 45 minutes of your life .