Inc. 5000 Applicant of the Week: Brooklyn Brewery
http://www.inc.com/articles/2010/06/applicant-of-the-week-brooklyn-brewery.html

Inc. 5000 Applicant of the Week : Brooklyn Brewery  As we process applications for the 2010 Inc. 500 5000 , we thought it would be worthwhile to shine a spotlight on some of the companies that are vying to appear on our ranking of the fastest-growing private companies in the U.S. One that caught our eye was the New York City-based Brookyln Brewery .  During his time as a war correspondent for the Associated Press , Steve Hindy 's interest in home brewing was sparked by a group of American diplomats he met while he was working in the Middle East . Since the diplomats were stationed in Saudi Arabia , where it is illegal to buy alcohol under Islamic law , they had grown skilled at brewing beer in their homes .  A few years after his first foray into illicit home brewing , Hindy 's wife grew fed up with him working in the line of fire , so he came home and took a job with Newsday . Soon though , the brewing bug overpowered him and he talked his neighbor jobs together to launch a brewery .  Potter , who has since cashed out of the business , was initially skeptical of the idea . " When I started talking about starting a brewery , Tom thought I was crazy because his idea of the beer industry was that the big brewers were getting bigger and the small breweries were being stamped out , " says Hindy .  When Potter attended the microbrewers conference in Portland , Oregon in 1986 , there were only about 25 microbreweries in the country , compared to over 400 today . Over the next two years , he and Hindy managed to raise half a million dollars from family and friends and in 1988 , on their first day of sales , they were able to move 100 cases of beer .  Much like serving as a war correspondent , " starting a business requires every bit of imagination , and creativity , and energy , and gumption that you 've got , " Hindy says . " You really have to be able to think on your feet and your plan Eventually , after getting some positive local press , the brewery started getting courted by advertising and PR firms as well as venture capitalists hoping to get involved . Hindy learned quickly that " when you get a little bit of success , all sorts of opportunities arise and most of them are mirages , they 're not really opportunities that you should follow . "  Instead , Hindy carved his own path . Unlike other American craft breweries , Brooklyn Brewery sells a substantial portion of its beer overseas . He attributes this to the positive associations people have with the borough from which the brand 's name is borrowed . However , in the early years , friends and investors were dubious of the choice .  " I do n't think they saw what I saw , which was all sorts of creative people were pouring into Brooklyn and it just seemed to me that Brooklyn was kind of this mythical place in America that had a lot of positive associations attached to it . "  Hindy 's observation paid off : the company 's revenue million in 2009.