Tasigna Surpasses Efficacy Of Gleevec In Newly Diagnosed Adult ...
http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/191089.php

an 18-month median follow-up clinical trial has revealed superior efficacy with tarigna ( nilotinib ) capsules in comparison to gleevec ( imatinib mesylate ) tablets in adult patients with newly diagnosed ph+ cml ( philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia ) in chronic phase 1 . tasigna produced considerably deeper levels of molecular response than gleevec in front-line ph+ cml and lessened progression to accelerated phase and blast crisis , resulting in a lower number of deaths due to cml1 . of note , three times more patients achieved undetectable disease at the molecular level with tasigna compared to gleevec1 additionally , tasigna surpassed gleevec in other important measures of treatment efficacy .  richard larson , md , enestnd study investigator and director of the hematologic malignancies program at the university of chicago , said :  tasigna demonstrates that by more selectively inhibiting bcr-abl , the key driver of ph+ cml , we can reduce progression to advanced disease even further than with the current gold standard gleevec . the efficacy and safety findings achieved by tasigna in this study provide patients and physicians with an was major molecular response ( mmr ) at 12 months ; a secondary endpoint was complete cytogenetic response ( ccyr ) by 12 months . planned follow-up is for five years .  patients on the gleevec treatment arm who had suboptimal response or treatment failure were allowed to escalate dose and/or switch to tasigna via a protocol extension . the data presented at asco was the 18-month median follow-up .  mmr ( major molecular response ) was defined in the study as reduction in the level of the abnormal bcr-abl gene to less than or equal to 0.1% of the pretreatment level based on an internationally agreed standard .  at the 18-month median follow-up , three times more patients in the enestnd study achieved undetectable disease at the molecular level ( bcr-abl levels at 4.5-log reduction ) with tasigna than with gleevec . ccyr indicates that no cml cells containing the diagnostic philadelphia chromosome can be seen in a sample of bone marrow taken from the patient . results showed that fewer patients progressed to accelerated phase or blast crisis on tasigna at 300 mg twice daily ( n = 1 ) versus gleevec at 400 mg once daily ( n = 12 ) 1 with 18 months of median follow-up , demonstrating an improvement in disease control . results also revealed fewer deaths due to cml on tasigna at 300 mg twice daily ( n = 2 ) and 400 mg twice daily ( n = 1 ) versus gleevec at 400 mg once daily ( n = 8 ) . rate of mmr and ccyr remain better for tasigna compared to gleevec at the 18-month median follow-up . all patients had at least 16 months of treatment or discontinued early ; the median follow-up was 18 months . overall , 80% , 81% and 75% of patients remained in the study on tasigna 300 mg twice daily , tasigna 400 mg twice daily and gleevec 400 mg once daily , respectively . tasigna and gleevec were both well tolerated overall . rates of discontinuation due to adverse events or laboratory abnormalities were :  fewer patients taking tasigna discontinued due to adverse events versus gleevec . no patients in the study had prolongation of qt interval &gt;500 the treatment arms .  a disease in which the body produces cancerous white blood cells . the vast majority of cml patients have an abnormality known as philadelphia chromosome , which produces bcr-abl . bcr-abl is a protein that causes malignant white blood cells to reproduce . globally , cml is responsible for about 10% to 15% of all adult cases of leukemia , with an incidence of one to two cases per 100,000 people per year .  please note : if no author information is provided , the source is cited instead .  contact our news editors  for any corrections of factual information , or to contact our editorial team , please see our contact page .  please note : any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional . for more information , please read our terms of use .  copyright medical news today : excluding email/sharing services explicitly offered on this website , material published on medical news today may permission of medilexicon international ltd . please contact us for further details .