Young canvassers part of nationwide health care drive
http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/nation/2010-06-15-kids-health_N.htm

st . louis ? on a cool weekday afternoon , a small group of young adults gathers outside covenant house , a homeless shelter where some of them live or go to school . armed with clipboards , they jump into a van and head out to search for their target : uninsured children .  for the next three hours , the group of 20-somethings , called " door knockers , " canvass a lower-income neighborhood looking for children who are eligible for two government programs : medicaid and the children 's health insurance program ( chip ) . " we 're in the neighborhood to sign up kids for free health care , " says maurice raspberry , 21 , who lives at the shelter .  tami wright , also 21 , answers the door at her grandmother 's house . her children , ages 1 and 3 , are uninsured because she did n't know how to renew their coverage through medicaid , the state-federal health program for the poor . " i do n't work and i do n't have a car , who is uninsured .  one of the canvassers shows her how to fill out an application . " i like the feeling of knowing we are trying to help kids , " says cierra ball , 20 , a high-school dropout who is earning her ged at covenant house and is also uninsured .  the door knockers , who are paid $10 an hour , are part of a nationwide drive to sign up the 5 million children who qualify for the medicaid and chip programs but are n't enrolled . children without insurance are 10 times more likely than insured children to go without needed care , a study by the urban institute found . the obama administration wants all eligible children signed up by 2015 . so far , the federal government has handed out $40 million in grants for enrollment initiatives , and $80 million more is on the way .  the effort also serves as a dress rehearsal for a major enrollment campaign likely to occur when the health care law takes full effect . the law aims to extend coverage to 32 people to have insurance . it offers new coverage options , including a sharply expanded medicaid program .  yet many health experts say it will take a major campaign by government , health facilities and non-profit groups to get people signed up . cindy mann , the top medicaid official at the u.s. department of health and human services , says the efforts to find and enroll uninsured children now will help show what works best -- from low-tech labors such as knocking on doors to more sophisticated approaches using government databases or social media to find uninsured kids .  " there will always be communities , individuals and families who for one reason or another need some guiding through the enrollment process , " mann says .  slow start for expansion  research suggests many reasons why so many children remain uninsured : sometimes parents are n't aware their kids are eligible , or do n't know how to enroll or re-enroll their children . some states have been reluctant to spend extra money to cover more children and have cumbersome application processes .  president obama to a slow start because budget-strapped states do n't have the money to broaden eligibility , according to several studies , including from the national academy for state health policy .  louisiana has emerged as one of the most aggressive states in finding and enrolling uninsured children . the state has used various strategies , including greatly simplifying the application process , to reduce the rate of uninsured children to 5% in 2009 from 11% in 2003 -- nearly 85,000 fewer uninsured kids .  in february , the state identified 10,000 uninsured children by searching food-stamp rolls . parents did n't have to make a single phone call or sign a form .  still , louisiana faces a big challenge in signing up more than 550,000 eligible poor adults for medicaid once the health law expands coverage in 2014 , says ruth kennedy , deputy director of louisiana 's medicaid agency and head of its chip program .  other federally funded efforts include :  * in cooperstown , n.y. , mary imogene bassett hospital has hired three " circuit-rider " outreach workers to travel to schools rural areas with enrollment .  * in atlanta , a community health center , west end medical centers , is boosting efforts to find uninsured children using social networks such as facebook .  * new mexico is setting up a dozen self-service kiosks in community centers , libraries and head start facilities to enroll children .  150 children signed up  in st. louis , the door knockers have worked on enrollment since march , helping to sign up more than 150 children for medicaid or chip . like ball , many are uninsured but will be eligible for medicaid or federal subsidies to buy coverage when the main parts of the health law take effect in 2014 .  their efforts are funded by st. louis children 's hospital , which got a $1 million federal grant and gave $600,000 of it to moses ( metropolitan organizations strengthening and empowering society ) , a coalition of 35 mostly black churches known for its grass-roots organizing . moses contacted covenant house to find young people for the project . many of the canvassers were on medicaid as children the need . "  kaiser health news is an editorially independent news service and a program of the kaiser family foundation , a non-partisan health care policy organization . neither kff nor khn is affiliated with kaiser permanente .  to report corrections and clarifications , contact standards editor brent jones . for publication consideration in the newspaper , send comments to letters@usatoday.com . include name , phone number , city and state for verification . to view our corrections , go to error?