In honor of Cheer Up Keanu Day, here are seven reasons we're ...
http://www.ew.com/article/2010/06/15/in-honor-of-cheer-up-keanu-day-here-are-seven-reasons-were-grateful-for-keanu-reeves

yesterday was flag day , the one day of the year dedicated to americans celebrating their national colors , but today , june 15 , is actually a much more important holiday : cheer up keanu day . after a paparazzi image of a forlorn-looking keanu reeves sitting on a bench and eating lunch made its circuit through the magically arbitrary world of internet meme-land , someone started up a facebook event called " cheer up keanu day , " urging fans of the actor to send him " letters , emails , gifts , and any other niceties and kind words " to let him know just how much he means to them . as of this post , there are over 14,000 confirmed participants . in the succinct words of keanu , " whoa . "  the star of such classics as johnny mnemonic and chain reaction is an easy target for cynical internet snark-peddlers . ( in fact , my not-particularly-clever reference to him as " the star of such classics as johnny mnemonic and chain reaction " is a perfect example . endearing : the idea that we as a virtual world can take a day to earnestly praise what we would usually scoff . so , in the spirit of the holiday , i 'd like to take this opportunity to enumerate the reasons i appreciate keanu :  1 . he is often front-and-center in movies of such pure testosteroned awesomeness they threaten to burn out your eyeballs . examples : point break , speed , the matrix .  2 . he regularly donates to cancer research funds , and even reportedly gave millions of his own earnings to the behind-the-scenes crew of the matrix .  3 . reeves is really good in my own private idaho .  4 . i used to watch his version of babes in toyland all the time as a kid .  5 . wyld stallyns ! ! ! !  6 . can you honestly imagine anyone else as neo ?  7 . he never comes across as anything but a nice guy who does what he enjoys , has gotten to work with some amazing directors ( gus van linklater ) and rightly feels no need to apologize for it .