Week 36: Ray Stevens, Jester Of The Tea Party Set
http://www.avclub.com/article/week-36-ray-stevens-jester-of-the-tea-party-set-42135

Week 36 : Ray Stevens , Jester Of The Tea Party Set  A.V. Club head writer and hip-hop specialist Nathan Rabin recently decided to spend a year or two immersing himself in the canon of country music , a genre he knew little about , but was keen to explore . The result : " Nashville Or Bust , " a series of essays about seminal country artists . After 52 entries , Rabin plans to travel south and explore some of country music 's most hallowed landmarks and institutions .  I 've been a comedy obsessive since my dad gave me a copy of Woody Allen 's Without Feathers when I was 10 . " Weird Al " Yankovic was my first idol , and the inspiration for my ill-fated third-grade novelty band Nathan &amp; The Rockers . And yet I did n't really get into audio comedy until a few years ago . Now my iPod is full of comedy albums from folks like Bob Newhart , Woody Allen , Patton Oswalt , Jim Gaffigan , Demetri Martin , plus at least one Comedy Death-Ray , Never Not Funny , and The Best Show On WFMU With Tom Scharpling .  So when I saw a A.V. Clubnewswire post about country cut-up Ray Stevens scoring a big comeback with an anti-immigration song I figured now would be the perfect time to immerse myself in the music , the magic , and the wonder of the most successful country novelty act of all time . It was as if fate itself was admonishing me to explore the evolution of the man behind such timeless apogees of sophisticated comedy as " Ahab The Arab . "  I 'd long been fascinated by Stevens as a cultural figure , a sad-faced clown whose goofball oeuvre reflects the cultural zeitgeist . During the three weeks or so when streaking constituted the hottest fad , Stevens raced into the studio and released the instantly dated novelty smash " The Streak . " When the Twin Towers fell , Stevens responded with " Osama Yo ' Mama . " And when the election of President Obama drove the right wing to dress up like founding fathers in a misguided principles that made it great , Stevens cannily reinvented himself as the jester of the Tea Party set , a real-life Bob Roberts .  Stevens was n't always defined by his politics . Throughout the ' 60s and ' 70s , he was a respected Nashville professional , A&amp;R man , busy session musician , producer , and songwriter who worked with titans like Dolly Parton and Elvis Presley . As a recording artist , Stevens specialized in silly novelty songs like " Gitarzan , " but he was also the first artist to record Kris Kristofferson 's hangover classic " Sunday Mornin ' Comin ' Down . " Some of Stevens ' biggest hits , like " Everything Is Beautiful , " were maudlin and sentimental instead of goofy and ridiculous . But on 2010 's We The People , Stevens defiantly , unmistakably threw in his lot with Birthers , Tea Partiers , and everyone else convinced that Obama is transforming our nation into a socialist nightmare . In doing so , he ensured that he will forever be associated with ultra-conservative politics .  Listening to We Set , I experienced the opposite of joy and laughter . The mere sight of Stevens on the cover of We The People , peering out at me with cold , dead eyes while dressed like a Tea Party lunatic , sends me into an apoplectic rage . Stevens ' dispiriting oeuvre filled me with profound sadness and emptiness . When narrow-minded people dismiss country as the music of xenophobic , cornball , maudlin , flag-waving jackasses who luxuriate in their ignorance , they 're taking about Stevens , who embodies every negative country stereotype in unusually pure form .  The Stevens of We The People is a real-life version of Mr. Show 's C.S. Lewis Jr. , a cartoonish super-patriot railing semi-coherently about tax-and-spendocrats who want to soil God 's own U.S.A. with their rascally socialist schemes , baby-murdering , and nonsensical earth-protecting . That foolishness about global warming do n't hardly make no sense to Stevens . Since Stevens moonlights as one of our top climate-control scientists , I think we should all take his views on global warming very seriously .  We The People 's insufferable famous white man who proudly proclaims he gets his ideas from Sean Hannity , Rush Limbaugh , Glenn Beck , and Bill O'Reilly , Stevens now feels qualified to speak for the sum of the American people , all of whom are apparently ready to revolt over our president 's mild health-care reforms .  The title track , written by veteran songwriter Max T. Barnes , crows " You vote Obamacare / We 'll vote you out of there / We the people have awakened to your tricks " before quipping that if politicians " had the common sense that God gave a billy goat , " they 'd realize that salt-of-the-earth Americans like himself are onto the kind of " pork-barrel special-interest tax-and-spend scam " that health care represents . In the tradition of protest singers from Woody Guthrie to Pete Seeger to Billy Bragg , Stevens augments his incisive political commentary with an enthusiastically blown raspberry , a foghorn to cover up profanity , and all manner of wacky sound effects , always the sign of a sophisticated musical manifesto .  In the video , Stevens -- -- pretends a plunger is a guitar , wears founding-father garb , and stares vacantly while lip-syncing lyrics like " We 've heard from Hannity , Beck , and Limbaugh what you got in mind for grandma / And we found this O'Reilly fella on Fox / We 're kind of like Joe The Plumber / And when we crunch the numbers , it all adds up to voting you out at the ballot box . "  I love how Stevens sings of Bill O'Reilly as if the Fox fixture were some sort of homespun philosopher whom Stevens and his fellow intellectual seekers came upon spouting common-sense wisdom , whittling at the corner store , and smoking a corncob pipe , rather than an obnoxiously ubiquitous blowhard with a pulpit that stretches across our fine nation . The production values , performances , and sentiments expressed in the video are pure public access , yet the video has wracked up more than 3 million views on YouTube . Stevens has done well for himself underestimating the intelligence of the American people .  " We The People " sets the Caribou Barbie , " shimmies defiantly under it . Stevens , once again looking simultaneously bored and dispirited , sings Sarah Palin 's praises in the most effusive manner imaginable , hailing her heretofore-unknown integrity and respect for the constitution , flying the flag for her 2012 political run , and attacking the liberal media for " slicing and dicing " her interviews . In Stevens ' mind , at least , there exists uncut footage of Palin 's interview with Katie Couric which reveals the former Alaskan governor to be an erudite , dignified stateswoman with a deep , comprehensive grasp of the subtleties and nuances of international politics .  But it is n't all wacky , ill-informed political discourse and zany sound effects . Stevens veers schizophrenically from asinine gags to shameless sentimentality , as evidenced by tracks like " Thank You , " where Stevens shakes his head in disgust over all those flag-burning protestor types who refuse to acknowledge the heroism of our fighting men and women .  But none of these crimes against music and comedy has generated the stir of Stevens ' anti-illegal-immigration Stevens ' songs , it 's incredibly lazy , yet also tries way too hard . Stevens seems to realize that his songs are devoid of funny lyrics , amusing ideas , insight , humanity , or any redeeming facet , so he piles on leaden shtick : silly , vaguely offensive accents ; zany fake public-service announcements ; and most noxiously of all , Stevens ' trademark idiot chuckle of self-satisfaction . A typical Stevens concoction is a misbegotten cross between a vaudeville sketch , morning-zoo wackiness , and a diatribe from your racist uncle .  We The People offers nothing but reactionary politics and pandering schmaltz delivered with supreme condescension . The songs on Stevens ' career-retrospective Box Set are largely apolitical , but Stevens ' love of crude ethnic stereotypes hints at the xenophobia that pervades We The People . In " Osama Yo ' Mama , " Stevens borrows the " Middle Eastern " setting on his Casio keyboard ( previously heard on his earlier hit " Ahab The Arab " ) to deliver a tongue-lashing to Osama bin Laden for embarrassing his mother with his doubt that bin Laden 's mother speaks in a cartoonish backwoods drawl . The song is now laden with historical irony , since Stevens seemed convinced that bin Laden 's capture was imminent . Nine years , two wars , and tens of thousands of deaths later , we 're no closer to catching Bin Laden then we were on September 12 , 2001 .  Stevens has a reputation as the " Weird Al " Yankovic of country , but that association does a tragic disservice to Mr. Yankovic . If anything , " Weird Al " is the anti-Ray Stevens . " Weird Al " is a force for good in the universe , a talented , smart , funny , big-hearted icon whose music has brought joy and laughter to millions . To paraphrase a Simpsons line , " Weird Al " es bueno , Ray Stevens es el diablo .  My extreme dislike of Stevens is partially political and partly artistic . In spite of his bona fides as a respected musician and producer , the arrangements on Box Set are easy-listening bland and sterile , . Stevens does n't seem to understand the craft of comedy . His timing is awful , his delivery is smug and patronizing , and his kitchen-sink approach reeks of desperation . I did n't laugh once listening to the 73 Ray Stevens songs in my iPod . It proved the opposite of edifying:Listening to Stevens actively made me stupider . He is the first , and hopefully last , artist I 've covered in this column whose work is almost entirely devoid of merit . Thankfully , at this point I feel like I 've listened to enough country to confidently state that he 's the exception rather than the rule : an enormously successful veteran who has taken much from pop culture without giving anything back in return .