UN Says Afghanistan's Neighbors Consume Most Of World's Opium
http://www.rferl.org/content/UN_Afghanistan_Neighbors_Consume_Opium/2080450.html

? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ?  ? ? ? ? ? ? ?  how to listen  radio free europe / radio liberty broadcasts in 28 languages . most of our programs are available on fm and medium-wave frequencies of local radio stations in the countries of our broadcast area . if you are having problems listening to programs on the internet , please read our technical help document .  related articles  the un 's new " world drug report 2010 " shows that while afghanistan remains the world 's largest opium producer , it is neighboring countries like iran , pakistan , and the former soviet republics of central asia where a majority of the account for 90 percent of the world 's illicit opium and heroin production , and its neighbors for 60 percent of the global consumption .  by weight , users in those nearby countries consume more than twice as much opium per year as the as the rest of the world , at 600 tons to 340 tons .  in fact , although there are an estimated 4 million opium users worldwide , the unodc says most usage is concentrated in asia where there has been a long tradition of use compared to the west .  the study also estimates that russia is the country with the highest national level of heroin consumption -- even though there are a higher number of heroin users in china .  " transit countries are often countries which have low levels of enforcement ability -- poor areas like central america or recently , west africa , " says ted leggett , a researcher for the unodc . " also central asia -- areas in transition or areas which are struggling with the basics of hammering down the rule of law . this and these kinds of bad consequences . even on the receiving side -- even amongst the developing countries which consume the bulk of the drugs -- the areas where these drugs are targeted are often neglected areas , areas where the rule of law is weak in the receiving countries . those are the areas that need to be brought back into the mainstream . "  there goes the neighborhood  leggett says being a country along the major transit routes for afghan opium and heroin does not , in itself , imply higher drug-consumption levels .  " drug problems are quite often local problems , but they are connected internationally . so the entire chain needs to be considered from the producer to the consumer , " leggett says . " but also , we need to look at each link in that chain . the ' world drug report ' points out that despite having some 80 tons of heroin trafficked through it year after year , the balkan region has not shown particularly high levels of drug use and not particularly high levels of drug violence in an area like central asia , you will see that there are high levels of localized drug use along the drug trafficking routes . "  " world drug report 2010 " says a large volume of opium is consumed by people in iran -- about 40 percent of all global opium consumption .  but in contrast to its high opium consumption levels , and despite its proximity to the world 's largest heroin producer , the unodc says official reports indicate that heroin consumption is relatively low in iran -- which has an estimated 391,000 heroin users .  it says pakistan has an estimated 500,000 heroin users . meanwhile , in afghanistan , the number of heroin users is reported to have risen from about 50,000 in 2008 to as many as 135,000 in 2009 .  china has the largest number of heroin users in absolute terms -- about 2.2 million . most of the supply in china is thought to come from myanmar rather than afghanistan , but traffickers of afghan heroin are thought to be gaining shares of the illicit market in china during extraordinary amount of opium a century ago , opium use in china now appears to be much more limited .  eurasian habit  taken together , it is europe and russia that now account for nearly half of all heroin consumption in the world .  four countries within europe dominate that market -- the united kingdom , france , italy , and germany . but the unodc says afghanistan is now the only known source of heroin that is consumed in europe and in the russian federation .  leggett explains that the opiate market is interlinked with severe national and international security problems -- especially in afghanistan and pakistan .  " drug production tends to occur in areas where there is a large amount of social instability -- often times , insurgency . if you look , for example , at the country that produces most of the world 's heroin , it is afghanistan . it is not a coincidence that that is true , " leggett says . " the leading producer of processed cocaine is colombia . both of these countries have got serious there are large areas of uncontrolled land or disputed territory , it allows drugs production to occur in those areas . "  unodc director antonio maria costa has called for universal access to drug treatment as a strategy to combat the world drugs trade , saying that the problem will not be solved by shifting consumption from developed countries to the developing world .  costa says that while users in more prosperous countries have the necessary facilities to help them overcome drug addiction , this was not the case for poorer nations .  costa concludes that drug addiction should be handled as a health issue , rather than a law enforcement issue in which users are punished with prison sentences or even execution .