The yellowing of basil leaves is an indicator of basil blight. Dr ...
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128061773

The yellowing of basil leaves is an indicator of basil blight . Dr. Margaret McGrath hide caption  toggle caption Dr. Margaret McGrath  The yellowing of basil leaves is an indicator of basil blight .  Dr. Margaret McGrath  There 's bad news for gardeners who grow basil to sprinkle over Italian food or Thai dishes -- or anyone who thinks pesto is the best flavor on Earth .  A potentially fatal fungal disease called downy mildew has been attacking basil plants in New York , New Jersey , Ohio and Florida . Gardeners are worried that it could spread farther throughout the summer , turning delicate green basil leaves an ugly shade of brown , yellow or gray .  Web Resources  And it spreads fast , says Margaret McGrath , an associate professor of plant pathology at Cornell University . " It wipes the leaves right out -- and that 's what you want to use , " McGrath tells NPR 's Michele Norris . " And it can go pretty darn fast . And it 's new so people do is similar to late blight in tomatoes or downy mildew in cucumbers , squash and melons . McGrath says these are considered " community diseases " because they move easily .  It wipes the leaves right out -- and that 's what you want to use . And it can go pretty darn fast . And it 's new so people do n't know about it .  " If you have it in your garden , you can affect other gardeners and farmers because the pathogen can jump onto their crops and plants , " she says .  McGrath says basil blight was reported in Uganda in 1933 and was n't reported again until 2001 in Switzerland .  The sign of the blight , McGrath says , is the top of the leaf will start yellowing . But to really know the state of the plant , you have to flip the leaves over and look on the undersides .  " You 'll see a grayish , almost purplish dusty growth on the underside , sometimes turning to almost black -- and that is all of them on the underside of the leaves , " she says . " The wind will pick those up and blow them off and the disease just keeps multiplying like crazy . "  McGrath says that if you see the blight , you could get rid of the leaves , but if you remove one , you 'll probably knock around the spores and they could get on other parts of the plant . She suggests making pesto on the spot with the healthy leaves when you see the first signs of blight .  To really know the state of the basil plant , you have to flip the leaves over and look on the undersides -- and see if there is a dusty grayish , purplish or blackish growth ( pictured ) . Dr. Margaret McGrath hide caption  toggle caption Dr. Margaret McGrath  To really know the state of the basil plant , you have to flip the leaves over and look on the undersides -- and see if there is a dusty grayish , purplish or blackish growth ( pictured ) .  Dr. Margaret last year , when I first saw it , which was the beginning of August , I looked at my husband and I said , ' We 're not waiting till September when we normally made pesto . Get the machine out , we 're making pesto now . ' And we just harvested everything out of the garden and made pesto . "  Her method of storing it is to make pesto balls , put them in sandwich bags and freeze them .  But , of course , McGrath says : " It 's not the same as the fresh leaves . "