Glass back of iPhone 4 review unit collects 'incredibly minor' scratches
http://appleinsider.com/articles/10/06/23/glass_back_of_iphone_4_review_unit_collects_incredibly_minor_scratches

a review unit sent out by apple has managed to collect " incredibly minor " scratches on its back made of hardened glass after just a few days of heavy use .  engadget was given a review unit of the iphone 4 prior to this week 's public release . in its hands-on time with the device , the glass back panel managed to accumulate scratches , though the website dubbed them minor .  " it 's what we 'd call ' incredibly minor , ' not visible at all dead on , but in bright light at an angle ... well see for yourself ( in ) the photos , " it said .  when apple introduced the iphone 4 earlier this month , the cupertino , calif. , company touted that both the device 's front and back panels are made of aluminosilicate glass , chemically strengthened to be 30 times harder than plastic , and " more scratch resistant and more durable than ever . " the front and back glass are also said to include an oil-resistant coating that helps the handset noted its durability , as walt mossberg of the wall street journal said " i dropped it several times from a few feet onto a hard surface with no problem , and it acquired no scratches in all my testing , even though i did n't use a case or coddle it . "  ed baig of usa today also wrote that an apple executive dropped the phone in front of him , for him to see . " the phone was undamaged , " he said .  in its teardown of the iphone 4 , solutions provider ifixit found that the front glass on apple 's latest handset is made of " gorilla glass . " it made no mention of the back panel .  " the front glass panel of the iphone is constructed of corning gorilla glass , a chemically strengthened alkali-aluminosilicate thin sheet glass that is reported to be 20 times stiffer and 30 times harder than plastic , " the company said in its teardown . " gorilla glass holds many advantages as the iphone 4 's front panel , including ion-exchange chemical strengthening process . "  apple will sell its first-ever set of iphone protectors alongside the iphone 4 , dubbed bumpers . they will be available in 6 colors for $29.99 apiece , but the accessories do n't obscure the front or back of the handset , instead wrapping the handset 's edges in a shock-absorbing , rubberized material .  earlier this month , one website came into possession of an iphone 4 with a cracked glass front panel , challenging apple 's own claims of the durability of the new hardware .