University of Florida begins tobacco-free campus policy July 1
http://news.ufl.edu/archive/2010/06/university-of-florida-begins-tobacco-free-campus-policy-july-1.php

university of florida begins tobacco-free campus policy july 1  published : june 23 2010  category:announcements , insideuf , top stories  gainesville , fla. -- the university of florida will begin its tobacco-free campus policy on july 1 .  tobacco use will be prohibited on all university-owned properties , including the main campus , eastside campus on waldo road , p.k. yonge developmental research school and shands healthcare facilities in gainesville and jacksonville . parking lots and vehicles located on all university-owned properties are included . the policy applies to employees , patients , students and visitors . the university athletic association , uf 's health science center and shands healthcare facilities adopted tobacco-free policies last fall .  uf joined with the alachua county visitors and convention bureau to help educate the nearly 4.5 million visitors who frequent various events , activities and programs on the uf campuses .  for the past month , uf 's area health education centers , known as ahec , have joined with gatorwell to educate the faculty , staff , students and visitors about the 100 tobacco users , and the cessation classes were promoted .  the university continues to offer cessation classes . most of the resources are free or are provided at low cost for employees and their families , including classes and products sponsored by ahec . employees will be permitted to attend classes during regularly scheduled work hours , as well as attend with their spouses or partners . for more information on the cessation products and resources , for uf employees , students and their families , visit : www.tobaccofree.ufl.edu .  permanent signs will be installed on the campus during the week of june 28 , and a july 1 ceremony at the plaza of the americas from 11:30 a.m. to noon is planned to recognize the healthy gators 2010 committee of faculty , staff and students instrumental in coordinating the effort to create a healthier campus . the alachua county health department will present an award to uf for its tobacco-free efforts .  no citations will be issued to those who violate the policy . however , employees ' immediate supervisors will address any disciplinary issues . for address students who do n't comply with the university policy . for visitors , enforcement of the regulation will be the responsibility of the person in charge of the facility or area in use at the time . the policy approved by the uf board of trustees can be found at : http : **43;0;toolong .  an exception to the new tobacco-free policy may be designated by the university president . tobacco use in designated areas of campus may be permitted for clinical treatment purposes . this includes smoking cessation programs and research-related programs .  since 1992 , the state of florida has prohibited smoking in enclosed indoor areas and has forbidden designation of any smoking areas in educational facilities . in january 2007 , uf has expanded the state prohibition by banning smoking within 50 feet of buildings on the gainesville campuses .  uf is the first public university in the state to implement a tobacco-free policy . uf joins fewer than 400 smoke-free or tobacco-free campuses nationwide , according to the american nonsmokers rights foundation .  for more information on the cessation products and resources www.tobaccofree.ufl.edu.