Lack of paid apps in Android Market contributes to app piracy ...
http://androinica.com/2010/08/lack-of-paid-apps-in-android-market-contributes-to-app-piracy-opinion/

Google recently announced a new licensing system to combat app piracy . Developers are pleased to see stronger protection of their creation , but if Google really wants to fight theft , it should expand paid app support to more countries .  Global Android users have been banging this drum , but the noise has fallen on deaf ears . After nearly two years of existence , the Android Market still supports paid apps in only 14 countries . Anyone not in one of those 14 nations is forced to sit on the sideline and wait for a day that is n't promised this calendar year or the next .  Or they can do the unthinkable and steal .  Make no mistake about it : hordes of people using illegal copies of Android apps would still do so if they could purchase apps . However , I 'd wager that there 's a large portion of consumers who would gladly pay for the privilege . The lack of support forces many to travel down the shady path .  Take a look at this Buka and Radiant . The retro shooter game Radiant has about 50,000 users , but thousands of those users run illegal copies of the app .  You 'll notice that places with the highest piracy rates are in regions where only a handful of nations have turned on the paid app switch . Hexage reports that  70 percent of Radiant players in Europe , where only 8 of 49 nations have paid app support , use a pirated copy .  Asia , which has a whopping 97 percent , has only Japan and South Korea among its rank of paid users .  South America , which does n't have any nation eligible for paid apps , also has a 97 percentage rate of illegal copies .  North America ( Canada and the U.S. ) comparatively reports 43 percent illegal users . That 's considerably lower than other regions , and I strongly believe that the U.S. getting paid apps early contributed to that lower rating . Would Oceania 's 91 percent be lower had paid apps arrived in Australia and New Zealand sooner ?  Moralists markets for buying apps , but those solutions are less attractive and publicized than the built-in Market . The reality is that not every desirable app is in these markets , and constantly sideloading updates to apps is a headache for developers and consumers .  Adding paid support to more countries will not spell the end of app piracy . However , it could stem the tide of people turning to black markets out of frustration and necessity . Google continues to say that there are several external factors that prevent it from adding paid apps to more countries , but those obstacles need to be addressed . Licensing may set up roadblocks for now , but history has shown that dedicated people will eventually find their way around software limitation . It 's best to make the need to pirate apps a non-issue .  Hexage informed us that the anonymous usage data has been collected over a period of 10 months using Flurry Analytics and Google Checkout API . Piracy rate represents the ratio of unlicensed copies to the total number of installed copies . For example , users obtained the app illegally .  Yes this actical is correct . I live in Denmark one of the countries who do not have paidable apps . I do not want to root my mobil , to scare to brink it . I have found around this that is not illegal . I have bought prepaid at&amp;t simcard from the USA , with no money on it . I paid like 5 dollers for it on ebay and got it sent to my door , took 4 days . Then I switch out my danish simcard with the AT&amp;T card . Then my phone , even when im in Denmark , thinks it is american phone , all paid apps are available . Then i pay with my google check account and volia i have the apps i want . Then when I put my own simcard in agian , all my paid apps still get updated thru the market without changin simcard .. Some might see this as abit to much to go thru , but it is really not that bad , and I really want to support pay apps .  The people in those affected countries use Market Enabler . I would like to think most people would do the right thing , rather than pirating paid apps . Market Enabler is easily found in a Google search if you are looking to unlock your Market to paid apps ...  Great post , Andrew . One of the most common objections I heard to my PaidAppPledge post was from folks who , because of the country they live in , are unable to buy paid apps in the Android Market . There was a time I 'd have argued that flaws in the official Market are just opportunities for 3rd party markets , none have really risen to the occasion , and at this point , Google just needs to start fixing things . The exciting hardware and huge numbers of people buying Android phones should drive huge interest from developers , but issues like these have the potential to really damp that interest .  Interesting idea . However , I reckon that someone who is savvy enough to pirate an app would pirate the fathom how cheap some people are that they would actively pirate apps that cost $1-$2 a piece . That 's like shoplifting at the dollar store ! I swear , some people will steal anything that is n't bolted down ...  That 's the puch line : if one needs a $2 app , but has no easy way to pay the $2 -- she has a huge incentive to steal . When I can not use my cellular to pay for the parking place , I will usually park without paying , because I rarely have the coins that the machine will accept . Apple has the built-in payment channel always open , which makes it much easier to buy .  I was mainly referring to the rampant piracy in the US , where we do have access ( but I did n't say that ) . So , I agree to a certain extent -- I can see why people do it if there is no other avenue . Except there are 2 other perfectly legal options : US SIMS and other stores . You can sidestep load apps over WiFi , as has already been mentioned ( but I suspect that many do n't know this ) . While I understand that it is a major PITA , and Google should get their a$$ in gear and get the MarketPlace running across the globe , I can not accept the argument that people are forced into pirating . Sure , there will be people that will pirate regardless , but there is a perfectly legal avenue to pursue , and it is n't that expensive . The MarketPlace should be available all over the world . However , Apple 's App Store is not entirely global , although it supports many more countries , and they keep adding new countries . It does illustrate that the problem with Google Checkout ( which is where the problem lies ) is more fundamental -- I suspect it has something to do with local laws , regulations and consumer rights . On a side note ... Seriously ? Even though you know there is a chance that you wo n't be able to park legally without coins if you ca ? You always have the option to going around the corner and parking somewhere your phone can be used to make payments -- nobody forces you to park there illegally . Or you could *shock* keep the proper coins the car *shock* . Similarly , Google is n't forcing you to pirate . There are stores other than the Market Place which do n't have such stringent restrictions on location . See SlideMe , Handango , MobiHand , PocketGear/AndroidGear , to name but a few .  &gt;&gt;On a side note ... Seriously ? Even though you know there is a chance that you wo n't be able to park legally without coins if you ca n't pay with your phone , you do it anyway ? You always have the option to going around the corner and parking somewhere your phone can be used to make payments -- nobody forces you to park there illegally . Or you could *shock* keep the proper coins the car *shock* . Similarly , Google is n't forcing you to pirate . There are stores other than the Market Place which do n't have , MobiHand , PocketGear/AndroidGear , to name but a few . &gt;&gt; Haha , I 'm guessing you do n't regularly park at meters . Keep coins in your car . You really expect me to believe that on the day you are running late , w/o time to search for a parking space and no coins in your car , you just give up an go home rather than park w/o paying . Whenever people make statements like this that ignore reality , it makes me suspicious of anything else they say .  You would be correct -- I do n't part at parking meters much at all . However , I will guarantee that I have enough coins in my car for parking at any time . I have a little compartment in the dash that has nothing but coins in it . See , I rarely use cash for anything ( and coins almost never get used ) , so those coins just sit there . I wo n't say that I would never park illegally -- it would depend on the circumstance . But generally , paying because , at least where I live , you are almost guaranteed to get a ticket within 30 minutes of parking there illegally . I do n't care if you believe me or not . You are free to dismiss anything I say with the belief that I am out of touch with reality , but that would be incredible short-sighted . Perhaps you should be a little more organized . Maybe you should leave a little earlier so you can park a couple of blocks further away where you can pay with your phone , or maybe , you know , make sure you have coins in the car ... it 's not that difficult . Or just deal with the parking tickets . You might benefit from this app : http : **44;66;TOOLONG ...  Like Microsoft does n't take initiative to provide Windows easily available in stores and at a affordable price , Android is also following the same path But things have improved with microsoft and their marketing strategies over the past 2-4 years . Lets see where Android lands in terms of paid apps and online -- Coming soon for pre-orders