More evidence of gyroscope sensor in a future iPad
http://www.geek.com/apple/more-evidence-of-gyroscope-sensor-in-a-future-ipad-1276692/

The next iPad will probably include a three-axis gyroscope sensor for a more accurate device positioning , according to an electronics industry news site . Citing an analysis by UBM TechInsights , EE Times reported on Wednesday that Apple allegedly tested out InvenSense 's gyroscope with the 9.7-inch tablet , indicating plans to eventually add the sensor to a future iPad revision .  UBM TechInsights ' product manager Steve Bitton tore apart an iPad and spotted an empty slot conveniently placed next to the device 's accelerometer ( it 's occupied by a gyro sensor on iPhone 4 ) . This proves Apple toyed with the gyro idea on iPad , Bitton noted :  Apple was possibly testing the idea of a gyroscope within the iPad and had done so using the ITG-3200 by InvenSense as it was the first digital three-axis gyroscope to be released . Apple probably chose to wait until the next iteration of the iPad to introduce gyroscope capabilities .  The news that Apple is exploring its gyro options for iPad echoes a recent piece by MacRumors . The next , should also include a gyroscope sensor .  Apple opted for STMicroelectronics ' gyroscope in iPhone 4 , which is a slightly revised version of their off-the-shelf L3G4200D chip . It 's a MEMS gyroscope , basically an electronics version of its vibrational counterpart . The MEMS gyroscope features a plate called the " proof mass " that oscillates when a drive signal is applied to the set of drive capacitor plates , much like halteres of insects .  The level of miniaturization is mind-blowing , as revealed by iFixit and Chipworks who examined the ST LYPR540AH MEMS gyro ( not related to iPhone 4 ) under a scanning electron microscope . The stunning shots included below are the testament to the engineering marvel and impossibly accurate manufacturing required to build these tiny sensors .  The gyro in iPhone 4 senses pitch , roll , and yaw , while providing data on rotation about gravity . The sensor joins four other sensors in every iPhone : the accelerometer , proximity sensor , ambient light sensor , and magnetic compass . " These phones are getting more and more the audience at the iPhone 4 unveiling .  Tying the accelerometer and even the magnetic compass together with the gyroscope enables six-axis motion sensing on iPhone 4 via CoreMotion APIs in iOS 4 . As a result , games optimized for iPhone 4 enjoy far more accurate tilt controls . Excellent examples of gyro-enabled games include Ngmoco 's Eliminate:GunRange and Gameloft 's N.O.V.A . -- Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance , seen in the below video .