A tale of two countries: Colombia and Venezuela
http://www.pennlive.com/editorials/index.ssf/2010/08/the_new_face_of_colombia.html

a tale of two countries : colombia and venezuela  colombia -- a nation perhaps best known to most americans for drug exports -- has made remarkable progress in the last decade from improved security to economic growth . it stands in stark contrast to neighboring venezuela .  on aug. 7 , juan manuel santos assumed the presidency of colombia . it is a testimony to the strength of colombian democracy that despite the immense popularity of outgoing president alvaro uribe , the supreme court ruled that uribe could not run for a third term .  juan manuel santos was sworn in as president of colombia on aug. 7 .  the terrorist , narco-trafficking farc ( revolutionary armed forces of colombia ) , once thought to be within range of taking the capital , are now on the defensive .  the nation 's economy weathered the 2009 financial crisis and is showing remarkable growth , aided by $10 billion annual foreign investment , rapidly growing exports , a boom in tourism , a bullish stock market , the lowest inflation in six decades progress , the country is still a work in progress . the farc have n't been eliminated as a threat to security , gangs have emerged , and while the production of cocaine has been reduced by 60 percent since 2000 , it still feeds the international market and the violence and corruption we see in mexico and central america .  unemployment is down to 11 percent from nearly 20 percent a decade ago , but poverty remains high , and the income distribution among the worst in the world . these sobering facts for latin america 's longest-running democracy need to be addressed by santos .  however , colombia shines brightly compared with neighboring venezuela . there the militarized populism of hugo chavez has created economic chaos and repression .  flush with billions of petrodollars coming from the wallets of american drivers , venezuela is a study in incompetence , inflation , crime and corruption . in the last two years , water , electricity and food have been rationed .  the venezuelan murder rate is one of the highest in the world . billions are , badly conceived projects and aid to bolster such political , social and economic disasters as cuba and nicaragua . recently , some 130,000 tons of food rotted in government warehouses . more than one million venezuelans have left the country .  yet chavez dreams of global ambitions , purchasing sophisticated military equipment from russia and consorting with the likes of iran . venezuela is now a main transit for cocaine bound to the united states and europe .  in july , colombia brought strong evidence to the organization of american states that venezuela is harboring elements of the farc . playing the victim , chavez responded by breaking diplomatic relations with bogota and ordering troops to the border .  though diplomatic relations have been re-established , the bluster is intended to distract from venezuela 's failures and put the opposition on the defensive for next month 's parliamentary elections .  venezuela 's president hugo chavez . ( ap photo/ariana cubillos )  venezuela is a democracy in name only . there are no checks and balances on chavez . he controls the legislature and judiciary and assails the church , and requires that marxism be taught in private and public schools . the government manipulates the rules for political activity to prevent the opposition from winning office .  moreover , thousands of cuban operatives have infiltrated the intelligence and security apparatus . in this age of foolishness and wisdom , chavez 's politics promise class conflict , corruption and war mongering . with all its troubles , colombia has the better future and is a strong ally of the united states .  it would be a travesty if congress does not pass the free trade agreement with colombia that will benefit americans and colombians . compare that to how our petrodollars subsidize imperial schemes , corruption and repression in venezuela .  abelardo lechter is president of lefa international based in king of prussia , and chairman of the board of the pan american association of philadelphia . gabriel marcella taught strategy at the u.s. army war college and writes on latin american affairs .