Death of man in custody at Onondaga County jail highlights ...
http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2010/08/death_of_man_in_custody_highli.html

death of man in custody at onondaga county jail highlights mysterious condition  provided photoraul pinet jr . died aug. 6 at the onondaga county justice center jail . his death , attributed to cocaine-induced excited delirium , has been ruled a homicide .  a brain disorder , cocaine and police restraint -- they were all at play when raul pinet jr . died in custody three weeks ago , according to the onondaga county medical examiner .  in a short news release last week , dr. robert stoppacher cited those causes but made no mention of the manner of pinet 's death -- accident , suicide , natural or homicide .  it was a homicide caused by cocaine-induced excited delirium syndrome , according to pinet 's death certificate . homicide is rarely used to classify such deaths , according to experts .  the weight that each of the three factors played in pinet 's death after arriving at the onondaga county justice center jail will be examined by four investigations and a possible lawsuit .  at the center of the debate 's a condition that was first noted under another name in 1849 in mentally ill people , then resurfaced in the 1980s with the popularity of cocaine .  neither stoppacher nor district attorney william fitzpatrick would explain the rationale behind calling pinet 's aug. 6 death a homicide , nor the weight given to each of the three contributing factors .  view full sizeraul pinet jr . ' s death certificate . his home address has been removed per the family 's request .  even the country 's top experts ca n't agree on the basics of excited delirium : whether it should be classified as homicide or accidental , whether it 's a brain condition that 's genetic or caused by frequent drug abuse , or whether it even exists .  the forensic pathologist credited with first noting the syndrome in the mid-1980s , dr. charles wetli , said such deaths should never be classified as homicides . they should be called accidental , as a drug overdose would be , because part of the syndrome is the brain 's response to the frequent use of examiner who 's in private practice in new jersey .  the struggle with police is also part of the syndrome , wetli said . in the few cases where victims died when not restrained , they died after jumping off a bridge , running into traffic or drowning in a lake , wetli said . when police do get involved , they 're caught in a dilemma , he said .  " if they do n't restrain him , the guy runs out in traffic and is killed , and the cop gets blamed for not restraining him , " wetli said . " if the cop does restrain him and he dies , the cop gets blamed for killing him because he restrained him . for the poor cop , it 's a no-win situation . "  dr. vincent dimaio , a former san antonio medical examiner who wrote a book on excited delirium , says such deaths should be classified as homicides because they almost always involve police restraint .  but the public often mistakenly holds police responsible because their intervention comes right before death to the normal physiological reactions of the body to stress and drugs , dimaio wrote in the book he co-authored with his wife , theresa .  " essentially , it 's an overdose of adrenaline , " vincent dimaio said in an interview .  deborah mash , a neurology professor at the university of miami who has studied excited delirium for 20 years , said such deaths are rarely called homicides . of the 105 she 's studied at the school 's excited delirium education , research and information center , all were classified accidental , mash said .  david lassman / the post-standardthe death of raul pinet jr . that occurred earlier this month at the onondaga county justice center jail , 555 south state st. , syracuse , has been ruled a homicide caused by cocaine-induced excited delirium syndrome .  pinet 's death certificate says he died from sudden cardiac arrest caused by cocaine-induced excited delirium syndrome . it lists " prone restraint " as a significant condition contributing to death but not related to the cardiac arrest .  in a section asking for philip wrote , " complications of use of illicit drug and confrontation with law enforcement . " philip is the pathologist in the medical examiner 's office who performed the autopsy .  the death certificate does not spell out how homicide was determined to be the manner of death . homicide means another person caused someone 's death , but not always criminally . pinet 's death will likely be a justifiable homicide , sheriff kevin walsh said .  " that 's what we 're looking at from our standpoint , " walsh said . his office has completed its investigation and sent its findings to the district attorney 's office .  " it was justified because our use of force was within the law and was within the policy , " he said . the deputies had to use force because pinet was struggling so violently , walsh said . other agencies investigating are the district attorney 's office , syracuse police department and the state commission of correction .  a syracuse police spokesman could not be reached to disclose the status of that agency 's janet izzo , said she could n't comment on the medical examiner 's ruling because she has n't seen the autopsy report . pinet 's widow , tashara pinet , plans on filing a claim against the county and the syracuse police department to preserve her right to sue , izzo said .  the sheriff 's office determined deputies acted properly , walsh said . no deputies ever got on pinet 's back to subdue him , walsh said . they used three emergency restraint belts -- one around his shoulders and arms to avoid chest compression , one around his hips to avoid pushing his diaphragm into his lungs , and one to hold his legs , walsh said .  " everything was done as safely as possible to control somebody who 's in a cocaine-induced excited delirium situation , " walsh said .  pinet was released from state prison in june after serving half of an 18-month sentence on a drug conviction . he served a two-to-six year prison sentence ending in 2005 for another drug conviction .  after syracuse police arrested pinet on a with officers , police said . when he arrived at the jail , he continued to fight , police said .  deputies got the restraint belts around him and placed him in a padded room , walsh said . when they cut the belts and his clothes off of him , pinet was still struggling , walsh said . walsh said he did not know whether pinet was still conscious when deputies left the room .  deputies observed pinet for four to five minutes in the room before realizing something was wrong , walsh has said .  mash 's research shows that people with excited delirium have a faulty brain regulation of the heart . the brain chemistry goes chaotic and that leads to a fatal arrhythmia , because the brain controls the heart , she said . so it 's a neuro-cardiac event , she said .  the syndrome limits the brain 's ability to develop a tolerance for a drug such as cocaine , wetli said . when that person goes on a binge , the brain gets overwhelmed with dopamine , and he or drug 's effects the way most people can , he said .  mash has seen some cases where someone died without police involvement , and others without drug involvement . but most have those contributing factors , she said . she believes the condition is genetic .  " the way i look at this is you 're walking around with a loaded gun , " said mash , who has studied under a federal grant through the national institute on drug abuse . " that gun may never fire . but if you use drugs , or have these other contributing environmental issues , you 've cocked that gun , you 've put the bullet in the chamber . "  police often are wrongly held responsible , simply because they 're the ones applying the necessary restraint to the out-of-control subject , she said .  " look , nobody would even have been there if the person was n't in the state of excited delirium , " mash said . " and , by the way , what are the police supposed to do ? "  of excited delirium , to look for markers that would confirm that as the cause . often medical examiners ask for her help , but she said she has not yet heard from onondaga county officials .  stoppacher found that pinet 's cocaine use caused him to become disoriented , agitated and violent . it was apparently the first time someone 's death was attributed to excited delirium in onondaga county , walsh said .  the excited delirium label has drawn mixed acceptance among forensic pathologists . some say it 's used as a scapegoat for deaths caused by police .  dr. werner spitz , the former medical examiner in detroit , said these types of cases should be labeled homicides because the officers , not the cocaine , cause the deaths .  " the only reason cocaine plays a role in so many of these cases is that it brings the police , " spitz said . he reviewed stoppacher 's news release about his findings in pinet 's death .  " it would seem to me that he strongly suspects the inability to breathe spitz said .  fitzpatrick said he 'll review the evidence and decide whether to present the case to a county grand jury . his office is also investigating the nov. 12 death of inmate chuniece patterson at the jail , he said . she died of a ruptured ectopic pregnancy .