iPod Nano's exposure to heavy rain motive behind runner's act of ...
http://www.lehighvalleylive.com/nick-falsone/index.ssf/2010/08/ipod_nanos_exposure_to_heavy_r.html

ipod nano 's exposure to heavy rain motive behind runner 's act of insitutional vandalism against the city of bethlehem  although my waistline and lungs have n't recognized yet , i 'm back in training for my third half-marathon . this is the first time i 'll be venturing outside the lehigh valley to run 13.1 miles . the race is scheduled for october in baltimore .  the regimen requires at least four days of running a week leading up to the race . i knew this week was going to be a busy one so getting out for a run on monday night was paramount .  view full sizeap photo/paul sakuma ) apple ceo steve jobs talks about the new ipod nano at an apple event last year in san francisco .  i arrived home with the intention of logging at least three miles come hell or high water .  well , one of those two did come , and , to give you a clue as to which one , it did n't at all involve flames , pitchforks or to some springsteen on my ipod nano while keeping a brisk pace on a cool and misty evening . it was when i reached the turn around point at broad and linden streets in bethlehem , about a mile and a half from my home that the skies opened up .  as my father-in-law recently said in describing a thunderstorm that washed out a golf outing , the rains were n't just torrential , they were biblical .  that may be a bit of exaggeration in monday night 's case , but for a guy in a t-shirt and shorts with no pockets and an expensive electrical device exposed to the elements , the situation felt biblical .  i did what i could to save the ipod by running faster than i 've ever ran while keeping the device under my palm and holding up my arm in a steady fashion .  it reached the point where i did n't think the ipod was going to make it so i sought coverage under the awning near starfish brasserie at broad and guetter streets . once i realized institutional vandalism .  now , before the bethlehem police department seeks a warrant for my arrest , i 'd like to reiterate that these ipods are n't cheap , and we 're in harsh economic times .  also , the cost of the damage i caused to taxpayers is negligible at best .  all i did was rip off a piece of the plastic trash bag lining the outside of a city-owned trash can . admittedly , the action was kind of gross , but i was desperate . i wrapped the piece of the bag around the ipod and continued my sprint in the rain .  when i finally arrived home , my wife was at the front door with her car keys in hand . she indicated she was just about to hop in her car to go on a rescue mission when she saw me emerge from the street corner .  the ipod was still pumping springsteen through the headphones by the time i spilled into our living room . the trash-bag method had apparently worked .  i still felt like the urge to perform some kind of miniature version of cpr , but those thoughts dissipated after a hot shower and some dry clothes .  four days have passed since the storm . my sneakers are still wet . i 've also found myself spending more time than usual staring at the local radar on weather.com , but at least i can do it while still listening to my ipod.