Florida State begins Jimbo Fisher era with rout of Samford (with ...
http://www.al.com/sports/index.ssf/2010/09/florida_state_whips_samford_59.html

ponder was nearly perfect , completing 12 of 14 passes for 167 yards with scoring tosses of 4 , 15 , 8 and 11 yards and one interception . fullback lonnie pryor caught two of the scoring passes and greg reid returned a punt 74 yards for a score as the seminoles ( 1-0 ) built a 42-3 halftime lead .  " we 're picking up right where we left off last year , " ponder said . " we have a lot of potential and a lot of opportunities coming ahead that we need to take full advantage of and we 've got a lot of playmakers . my job is easy , i just have to get the ball to these guys and they 're going to make plays . "  the opening three possessions for both teams proved to be the difference . florida state drove into the samford red zone before bryce smith picked off a tipped ponder pass at the bulldog 8 , but the seminoles followed with ponder td passes to pryor ( 4 yards ) and bert reed three possessions and was outgained 157-19 .  jermaine thomas made it 21-0 with a 4-yard touchdown run two plays after chris thompson blocked a samord punt that was recovered by the seminoles at the bulldog 12 .  reid 's punt return was followed by ponder scoring hookups with pryor ( 8 yards ) and taiwan easterling ( 11 yards ) as the seminoles went ahead 42-0 . samford 's cameron yaw drilled a 42-yard field goal on the final play of the first half .  " i just had to take advantage of it , i feel like it was my only one , my only opportunnity to make a play , " reid said of his return . " i was kind of judging it a little and afraid someone was going to hit me . i just made a chance and made the best of it . "  yaw booted a 32-yard field goal midway through the third quarter , and florida state followed with a 57-yard td run by ty jones , a 9-yard scoring run by chris thompson and a 24-yard field goal on saturday while samford ( 0-1 ) plays at northwestern state .  noles notebook  set up for success : thanks to a stout defense , florida state 's offense began four its six first half possessions in samford territory . another drive started at the fsu 49 . the seminoles took advantage with quick scoring drives that covered 6 , 5 , 2 , 1 and 4 plays .  local connections : the game featured several of mobile-area players . fsu starting right guard rodney hudson , a former b.c. rain standout , returns after an all-american season . davidson 's jamael lett at corner back for samford and recorded two tackles . daphne 's jacob kirschenbaum is samford 's backup right tackle and saw action in the second half . also on the bulldogs roster is sidney jordan ( ums-wright ) , omar johnson ( st. paul 's ) , brandon nettles ( mcgill-toolen ) , jaquiski tartt ( davidson ) , and tyler o'neal-rowland ( foley ) .  ponder moving on up : christian ponder is now seventh in school history in career completions ( ) and 12th in career touchdown passes ( 33 ) .  piling on early : the seminoles tied a school record with five touchdowns in the second quarter . fsu has accomplished the feat four times before , most recently against tulane in 1992 . the seminole 's 42 first-half points were the most since a 2000 game against duke .  owning the fcs : florida state improved to 16-0 against teams from the football championship subdivision , formerly known as 1-aa .  captains decision on hold : fsu coach jimbo fisher is waiting until the end of teh season to name permenant team captains . senior quarterback christian ponder , senior linebacker kendall smith and sophomore kicker dustin hopkins served as game captains saturday .  2-minute drill  why florida state won : the defense . new defensive coordinator mark stoop 's zone-based scheme was sharp and kept samford 's tricky offense in check . the bulldogs had just 89 yards of offense at halftime .  3 stars of the day : christrian ponder , greg reid and ty jones . ponder missed on just . reid returned a punt 74 yards for a score , recorded four tackles and a pass breakup and had an 8-yard carry . jones , a junior , ran for 107 yards on just 8 carries and scored on a 57-yard run .  what fans are talking about : the beginning of the jimbo fisher era . whether or not that it 's a cause of excitement is up for debate . an announced crowd of 68,438 was on hand to see fisher 's debut , well below doak campbell stadium 's capacity of 82,300 . call of the day : after opting to kick away from greg reid on its previous three punts , samford booted it in reid 's direction with just under nine minutes left in the second quarter . the moved backfired as reid , the nation 's top punt returner last season , took the 36-yard bob hooper kick back 74 yards for a score .  where did he come from ? fullback lonnie pryor caught three passes , two for scores , all in the first half . he had 10 catches moment : any hope samford had of keeping pace ended when chris thompson blocked a bob hooper punt early in the second quarter . terrance parks recovered the ball at the samford 12 and jermaine thomas scored from four yards out two plays later to make it 21-0 .  rough day : chris evans , samford 's all-time leading rusher , was held to just 40 yards on 12 carries .  drew finished with 72 tackles , six sacks and 25 quarterback hurries last season and is the second best weakside defensive end and no. 1 player in georgia , according to rivals.com . steward recorded 123 tackles and 24 stops for a loss in 2009 , and is rivals ' no. 1 outside linebacker and no. 1 player in florida . the visits come on the heels of james wilder , no. 2 on the sse 120 , verbally comitting to the seminoles.quoteworthy  " when you go out there and put numbers on the scoreboard , everything changes . we went out there and executed . " -- fsu coach jimbo fisher  " ( oklahoma ) we know it 's going to be tough going out there . we have to start from day one at monday practice and get ready to go . " -- quarterback christian ponder  " i was n't expecting two ( touchdown catches ) . things just happened . i was in the right place at the right time and i got two , so i 'm really appreciative . " -- fullback lonnie pryor  " i was so happy ( to run an offensive play ) . i had a big smile on my face . i should 've scored but it 's been about a year since i 've run the ball . i feel like i 'm ready for another chance . " -- cornerback greg reid  " we had no doubt we were prepared for this , the training camps we went through showed out on the field . i 've been working on my pass-rush moves , getting bigger and stronger and tried to leave it all out on the field today . " -- defensive tackle demonte mcallister