'Big Brother 12' Spoilers: Final 4 Power of Veto Results
http://www.buddytv.com/articles/big-brother/big-brother-12-spoiler-final-4-37982.aspx

now that big brother 12 is in the final 4 , the power of veto competition is the most important one . hoh only ensures you safety , but pov keeps you safe , let 's you pick the nominees and let 's you pick who gets evicted .  spoiler warning : this article contains big brother 12 spoilers .  hayden is the hoh and he nominated lane and britney .  hayden won the power of veto .  it seems the competition was about evicted hgs in previous challenges . the win solidifies two things . first , the nominations will stay the same and britney will be evicted , leading to a dull brigade final 3 . second , there 's no way lane or enzo would bring hayden to the finale .  with three hoh wins and now a power of veto victory , hayden is proving that he 's in it to win it , playing hard now that winning actually matters . combined with the fact that he 's already taking credit for getting britney to backdoor matt that , despite the show getting its best ratings yet , i suspect the final few episodes will have a sharp decrease due to lack of interest in the outcome . just like when dick and danielle were the final two , having the brigade in the finale means that it does n't really matter who wins .  sure , hayden deserves to win a little more , but all three members have the exact same argument for why they should win . they were all in the brigade and so the number of competitions is the only real difference . since lane has one hoh and enzo has one pov , there 's no way either could catch hayden for number of wins .  normally i would say that hayden would be smart to turn on the brigade and get enzo out , but it truly does n't matter . hayden will win against anyone in the house and the only way for him to make the finale is to win the final hoh . this week 's eviction could n't matter less to him , except for little easier than beating britney and lane .  on the bright side , there 's been talk about finally exposing the brigade to britney , so saturday night 's big brother : after dark could feature the revelation .