Thousands turn out for festival of praise
http://qctimes.com/news/local/thousands-turn-out-for-festival-of-praise/article_6b54fc04-b89b-11df-8b47-001cc4c002e0.html

as she waited for the sixth annual festival of praise to begin saturday in leclaire park , donna sims of davenport contributed her time by working in the prayer tent .  but she also was looking ahead to what was coming later in the night as a crowd estimated at 6,000 gathered at the riverfront park .  " really , from my heart , it 's exciting when all the christian people get together and start singing , " sims said . " you can feel god 's presence . it 's an indescribable feeling .  " the american flags are waving , people are waving their hands in the air , the music is playing , " she said . " it makes me cry .  " for me it 's more than just praise , " she added . " it 's god working in davenport . "  kathryn bohn , the event 's producer , said the clear and cool night was more evidence of god 's work in the quad-cities . plus , she pulled the concert together get a major sponsor , she formed her own nonprofit organization , high praise unlimited , to put on the event .  " i love to see the people praising the lord , " bohn said . " god told me , ' your purpose in life is to praise the lord , to encourage other people to praise the lord . ' "  the night 's proceeds are going to a night to honor israel , a christian tribute to jewish people around the world that will take place oct. 7 at the adler theatre in davenport .  " we 're here to praise the lord and honor israel , " luana stoltenberg of davenport said . " it 's to give god glory and pray that he will protect israel . "  the night 's big draw and headliner act was the christian pop/rock band mercyme .  as michelle and marc bonin of bettendorf looked for seats , she said they were there because " it 's an early birthday present to me . " her birthday is monday , and she is a got a hint about two weeks ago , " marc bonin said with a smile .  " i just like their music , " michelle bonin said . " it really speaks to me . it 's good clean music and i know i wo n't have to listen to foul language . "  the event began with the blowing of the shofar , a horn , traditionally that of a ram , that is used for jewish religious purposes .  the rev. timi bowman , the pastor of calvary church of the quad-cities , led the crowd in a prayer thanking god for the night as well as praying for the quad-cities , israel and peace in jerusalem .  esther schiff , a survivor of the holocaust , honored area veterans who helped liberate the world war ii nazi death camps . six liberators were awarded medals with the words " hero to me " on them after the song by that name was performed by christian artist dennis wilson of san antonio .  ( mary louise speer contributed to this article . )  this material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed.