Running in the footsteps of a hero
http://www.jsonline.com/news/milwaukee/102233099.html

Aurora Health Care plans to build a network of pediatric specialists throughout eastern Wisconsin , which could put the state 's largest health system in competition with Children 's Hospital of Wisconsin. ( 69 )  Milwaukee County  Jim Stingl In My Opinion  Running in the footsteps of a hero  Milwaukee firefighters ( from left ) Lt. Tina Conklin , firefighter Tracy Buckland , firefighter Sandy Williamson , Capt . Ellen Spatt , and firefighter-paramedic Kristin Ticcioni will be joined by four others from the area for the 5K Tunnel to Towers Run in New York . The run commemorates Stephen Siller , a firefighter killed on Sept. 11 , 2001 .  Periodically , columnist Jim Stingl hits the streets of Milwaukee . To see his latest video columns , click the thumbnails below .  Loading ...  With the benefit of hindsight , it 's not a fair question to ask if other firefighters would do what Stephen Siller did that awful day .  We know it cost him his life , along with 342 other New York firefighters and 2001 .  Siller was off duty and on his way to play golf , but when he heard about planes hitting the towers he drove from Brooklyn toward Manhattan . When he found the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel shut down , he abandoned his vehicle and ran the rest of the way in his fire gear . No trace of his body was ever found . He had a wife and five children at home .  Later this month , nine Milwaukee firefighters and paramedics - all women - will retrace his steps in the 5K Tunnel to Towers Run in New York , held annually in Siller 's honor . They will put themselves in his shoes that day . Or boots , actually . In fact , the women will run 3.1 miles in full firefighting gear - the heavy coat , pants , boots , gloves and even helmet .  " We just thought it was a wonderful way to help support the firefighters and families in New York City and show that we do truly never forget , " said Ellen Spatt , a captain on organize the difficult quest by a visit last year from Tim Brown , a firefighter who survived the Sept. 11 attack and has since retired from the NYFD . He was missing the run to be here for the retirement party of a Milwaukee firefighter , so he challenged everyone to join the 2010 run .  Spatt narrowed in on her female colleagues for a team . They were excited about the idea .  " Then I said we 're going to run it with one thing - we 're going to do it in firefighting gear . And they 're like , ' Ohhh , OK . ' But not one of them backed down , " she said .  The women , ranging in age from 25 to 48 , have been practicing every week on the track at Hart Park in Wauwatosa . They 've gotten a lot of strange looks and questions from the T-shirt-and-shorts crowd out there . Firefighter Tracy Buckland drew particular interest from a school cross country coach .  The women do n't run fast . The rubbing of their hear the clanking of their spanner belts , which are used to carry axes and other tools . You see them running , and you 're tempted to yell , " Hey , where 's the fire ? "  Their goal on Sept. 26 , the day of the run , is to finish without stopping to walk . They want to feel what Stephen Siller felt as he rushed through the streets .  " There 's a lot of chafing . You get hot and sweaty . Your feet hurt running in the boots . It 's not a tennis shoe , " Spatt said . " We are in our gear all the time at fire scenes , and we 're running around doing things for short times and bursts of energy . But to run a 5K in your gear is a challenge . "  They estimate the extra weight of the gear is about 30 pounds . It 's made to keep heat away from their skin , so it 's certainly not intended to ventilate a runner .  Some of them are Tina Conklin said she 's not much of a runner in real life . " My hope is to keep up with these people and not look stupid , " she laughed . " Do you know how hot it is in Manhattan in September ?  They will be joined in New York by some male firefighters from Milwaukee , but those guys do n't plan to run in their turnout gear . They 'll also run alongside other firefighters and police officers from around the country . The run is open to anyone .  Spatt and the others share a sense of pride in what they do for a living . They understand the call to duty that Siller felt that day .  " That 's the wonderful thing about the spirit of these solid women firefighters that we have . They always aspire to do more , " Spatt said .  The other six women joining them are Sandy Williamson , Kristin Ticcioni , Jennifer Schaefer , Sue Lucas , Kristin Ciganek and Julie Hall .  Stingl on the radio  Jim Stingl talks ( 620 ) .