Give Children the Gift of Anxiety Coping Skills with My Worry Box
http://www.pr.com/press-release/265450

whitney development group , inc .  press release  people with anxiety disorders who receive treatment are more likely to lead more productive , healthier lives , according to clinical research . with more than 9.6 million children ( 13 percent ) in the united states afflicted with anxiety disorders , parents and caregivers would be remiss not to teach children anxiety coping skills while they are young . parents now have an affordable self-help therapy tool called my worry box .  niles , il , september 28 , 2010 --(pr.com)-- people with anxiety disorders who receive treatment are more likely to lead more productive , healthier lives , according to clinical research. i with more than 9.6 million children ( 13 percent ) in the united states afflicted with anxiety disorders , parents and caregivers would be remiss not to teach children anxiety coping skills while they are young. ii  parents and caregivers can easily do this with my worry box ? , a colorful , new therapeutic journaling tool created for children 7 and up . my worry box works by providing minds until they can review them with adults they trust . this strategy provides a way to prevent worries from interrupting positive thoughts throughout the day and helps children cope with the worries of today 's society . this concept is supported by numerous bodies of research and published writings , including freeing your child from anxiety by tamar chansky , ph.d. , founder of the children 's center for ocd and anxiety and what to do when you worry too much , by clinical psychologist dawn huebner , ph.d .  chicago-based psychotherapist , sara gibson , lcpc , said , " my worry box can be a very effective tool for parents and caregivers to use with children having difficulty handling their worries . the simple act of translating a worry in one 's mind into words on paper and placing that paper in a special place , such as my worry box , psychologically transfers the burden of the anxiety away from the human body . "  in consumer tests , my worry box was a terrific hit with moms and children alike . " my worry shannon , a chicago-area mom of three . " it helped her open up to me . "  my worry box is a simple , easy-to-use gift for people seeking relief from their worries so they can move forward with their lives . though my worry box can not remove the source of worry from anyone 's life , its existence will educate society on effective ways to manage the response to worries so people can continue to be productive and positive in these challenging times . teaching effective coping mechanisms for worry , or anxiety , to youth can positively alter the future .  my worry box , a new self-help therapy tool from whitney development group , is available through gift retailers in the chicago area and via www.myworrybox.com . they come in purple , blue and green and include one worry pad , one pencil and my worry box instructions written for children to understand . for more information on my worry box products and childhood anxiety , visit www.myworrybox.com .  how my worry box came to bea curious engineer who is also a private designer . the two were inspired by the works of norman vincent peale , one of the most influential clergymen in the united states during the 20th century who is most responsible for bringing psychology into the professing church , blending its principles into a message of " positive thinking . "  about whitney development groupwhitney development group , inc . ( wdg ) is a private corporation located in niles , ill. , that is committed to helping people improve their health . the leaders of wdg have been in business for more than 15 years and have built a solid reputation as a reliable supplier in the surgical and disposable medical products industry . they will bring that same level of integrity and heart now into the consumer gift products/self-help therapy market .  the anxiety disorders association of america estimates only one-third of all people with anxiety disorders receive the treatment they need . the association estimates a number of reasons exist why people do not receive treatment . however , leaving anxiety untreated has been shown to be very detriment  many parents who have anxious lack of direction . experts agree that parents easily can become confused about where they are headed with their children ? s development .  when oprah began praising the benefits of gratitude journals , the activity of journaling hit mainstream . as journaling about all for which one is grateful helps raise one ? s consciousness of pleasant occurrences in life , writing about one ? s worries and anxieties in a meaningful place ...