The challenge in Cuba's free-market reforms
http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/cuba/100927/economic-reforms-self-employment

the challenge in cuba 's free-market reforms  havana , cuba -- a major shakeup is coming to this communist-run island over the next six months , as the cuban government plans to slash state payrolls by 500,000 workers and offset the cuts with new opportunities for self-employment and limited private enterprise .  the challenge will be ideological as well as practical , since the cuban government does n't need to create a new economic system so much as accept the one that already exists , but which now operates largely in the shadows .  the communist party newspaper granma published an index friday of the 178 occupations that some 250,000 additional cubans will be licensed to perform under the new self-employment guidelines . but it was a list of jobs that many cubans already do illegally , as black marketeers , risking fines and possibly worse , while paying no taxes and leaving no paper trail .  will the island 's unlicensed nannies , gardeners and dog trainers be willing to pay taxes and truthfully report their income ? will the government allow death ?  the questions suggest cuba 's changes will require a mental readjustment for would-be entrepreneurs and government officials alike .  for decades the castro government has treated market economics as a morally corrosive force , erecting billboards that declare " socialism or death , " while deploying legions of police to make sure cubans do n't illegally repair televisions or sell unauthorized pastries . when the government eased restrictions on self-employment in the early 1990s , it clamped down again when the economy improved and drove thousands out of business or back to black market labor .  this time around , the government is signaling that the measures are here to stay .  " the decision to allow for more self-employment is one that the country has made in order to redesign its economic policy with the goal of increasing productivity and efficiency , " read friday 's granma article about self-employment , titled " much more than an alternative . "  it continued : " it 's also a way to offer workers another way to feel their own efforts are useful , and of extinction and stigmatized those licensed to practice it in the 1990s . "  to overcome the distrust of cubans who have learned to practice industriousness in secret , it may take more than such assurances . many here have survived for decades by subtle modes of deception , pilfering from their workplaces , selling their labor illegally or cheating their bosses in one form or another .  now the government will ask them to comply with a new tax system and honestly report their earnings and expenses .  but no one knows how the tax system can succeed if the country does n't have a standardized income-reporting system , let alone the paper to print one on .  it 's also not clear how the government will cope with the enforcement burden of regulating the new private sector . the list published friday even specifies the characters cubans can depict as street performers .  but the logistics might not be as important as the ideology .  for more than a year , the raul castro government has been laying the groundwork for these changes the country 's economic problems in both neighborhood meetings and state-run media such as granma .  the result is a re-casting of cuban socialism as a system that increasingly accepts a role for the private sector and links productivity to worker income . cubans will also now be able to hire workers who are n't family members , something already widely practiced on the black market , but ideologically taboo until now .  more importantly , perhaps , the changes will require cuban government officials to accept that it is a waste of time and resources to try to stop people from making and doing things to earn a living -- especially when they become prosperous . existing inequalities will inevitably widen with the measures , so the cuban government will have to begin directing assistance at the neediest , another departure from the island 's experiment with egalitarianism .  " those who contribute more will receive more -- that is the principle of our new tax system , which will help raise revenue for the state , and achieve an adequate redistribution of resources for society , national bank is studying proposals to provide micro-credits to aspiring entrepreneurs , but analysts expect much of the capital for small businesses will come from cubans living abroad . the island receives an estimated $1.2 billion a year in cash send home from cuban expatriates .  decrepit small and medium-sized state-run businesses could be converted all over the island . at a rundown snack stand in one of havana 's western neighborhoods , 52-year-old raul duran makes one kind of sandwich -- ham on white bread -- in his state job . he said he had n't studied the measures but welcomed the change to start a business or convert the operation into a worker-run cooperative .