Lumosity.com launches Italian version of cognitive training service
http://www.news-medical.net/news/20101006/Lumositycom-launches-Italian-version-of-cognitive-training-service.aspx

Lumosity.com launches Italian version of cognitive training service  Lumosity.com , the leading online provider of games that improve brain performance , announced today the launch of an Italian version of their cognitive training service -- i.lumosity.com/it . The translation of the site into Italian was sponsored by Abbott Laboratories . Abbott also sponsored hundreds of memberships to make the Lumosity.com cognitive training program available to doctors and patients throughout Italy in an effort to raise awareness about the cognitive deficits associated with HIV/AIDS .  Related Stories  " We are very excited to bring this great cognitive training technology to the people of Italy , " said Charles Guillemet , in charge of Lumosity.com 's international development efforts . " Working with Abbott Laboratories has given us the tremendous opportunity to provide Lumosity.com in our fourth language and to distribute the training to a lot more people who really need it . " The training programs are also available in English , Spanish , and French .  According to some estimates , close to 50% of patients with HIV suffer from associated neurocognitive disorders provided with free 3-month memberships to i.lumosity.com/it thanks to the sponsorship of Abbott Laboratories and the support of the patient advocacy group Nadir ONLUS . In addition , 7-day free trial memberships will be available to all Italian speakers across the world . " We 're hoping that this campaign increases awareness about the cognitive problems associated with HIV/AIDS , " said Joe Hardy , PhD , Senior Director of Research and Development at Lumos Labs . " These efforts will also increase research interest in brain training for treating cognitive deficits associated with medical conditions that affect the brain , like HIV/AIDS . "  News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance with these terms and conditions . Please note that medical information found on this website is designed to support , not to replace the relationship between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide .  This site uses cookies . By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies . Find out more here .