Hazleton native accused of killing sleeping wife
http://citizensvoice.com/news/hazleton-native-accused-of-killing-sleeping-wife-1.1044177

hazleton native accused of killing sleeping wife  lucille sukel of hazleton could n't understand why her high school classmates were n't returning her e-mails , as they talked every day .  she had n't heard from hazleton natives michael j. o'donoghue and his wife , the former nancy brown , in three days , she said . on tuesday morning , sukel found out why .  michael o'donoghue , 68 , was charged with first-degree murder of his 67-year-old wife , nancy , in their newark , del. , home .  o'donoghue called police early monday morning - two days after shooting his wife in the back of the head as she was lying in bed , delaware online reported .  police found nancy o'donoghue in a second-floor bedroom with bullet wounds and severe blunt force trauma to her head .  michael o'donoghue told police that he shot his sleeping wife twice with a small-caliber handgun from his night stand , court papers said . he also took a hatchet from the garage into the bedroom , in case the gun  o'donoghue told police he may have struck his wife in the head with the hatchet after he shot her , investigators said . he then got into bed and held her , court papers said . police recovered a gun and a hatchet in the home .  he is also charged with possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony and possession of a deadly weapon during the commission of a felony .  the news shocked friends who graduated in 1960 from st. gabriel 's high school with the couple , leaving them with more questions than answers , sukel said .  " i have been on the phone with classmates all morning , " she said . " they loved each other very much . this is the most unexpected thing . we 're in shock . "  sukel remained very close to the couple , despite the miles between them , she said .  " if she was going out shopping , i knew it , " sukel said .  she became concerned when neither answered the e-mails - the another classmate learned about the murder and word reached sukel .  " we 're all just astounded , " she said . " none of us could make any sense out it . they were so attentive to each other . he took such good care of her . "  sukel worked with the couple to plan their 50th high school reunion , which was held in june . the o'donoghues were on the reunion committee , and nancy had received a special award for all her hard work on the event , sukel said .  michael , who was known to friends as " jay , " had worked as an accountant , and nancy as a nurse , she said .  " both were retired . they were happy and contented , " sukel said .  she wishes she could drive to delaware to ask her friend what happened and why , questions to which she may never know the answers .  delaware online , an online edition of the news journal of wilmington , contributed to this story .  **27;76;toolong , under the following guidelines :  to comment you must first create a profile and sign-in with a verified disqus account or social network id . sign up here .  comments in violation of the rules will be denied , and repeat violators will be banned . please help police the community by flagging offensive comments for our moderators to review . by posting a comment , you agree to our full terms and conditions . click here to read terms and conditions .