Should critical reviews of ArtPrize finalists run on MLive.com?
http://www.mlive.com/artprize/index.ssf/2010/10/should_critical_reviews_of_artprize_finalists_run_on_mlivecom.html

Should critical reviews of ArtPrize finalists run on MLive.com ?  Rex Larsen The Grand Rapids PressDavid Spriggs with this top 10 piece " Vision , " at the Grand Rapids Art Museum . The piece was chosen by two critics on MLive to fall in the top four .  MLive.com and The Grand Rapids Press recently ran two reviews from art critics about the top 10 ArtPrize finalists , and some readers have taken offense .  Each critic - Roger Green and Joseph Becherer - is well qualified to write about art .  Coincidentally or not , they both chose the same four pieces to come out on top : " Cavalry , American Officers 1921 , " " Vision , " " Lure/Forest " and " salt and earth : garden for Patricia . "  Green , who teaches art history at Eastern Michigan University and was Booth Newspapers ' art critic for 15 years , went a step further and ranked the pieces . He chose Chris LaPorte 's " Cavalry " as his winning piece , and put Mia Becherer is chief curator and vice president for collections and exhibitions at Frederik Meijer Gardens &amp; Sculpture Park and a professor of art history at Aquinas College .  Despite the critics ' qualifications , some users took offense to the fact that we asked critics to pick winners and losers .  Check out the comments and then let us know - are critical reviews and picking winners and losers appropriate as we near the final ArtPrize voting deadline ? Do they sway voters ? Or will voters pick who they want anyway ?  I personally do not care for an art critic 's opinion . I feel that their so called ' educated ' opinions are shallow and meanspirited . Sometimes ' years of experience ' is n't a good thing . ArtPrize is for all people and those who vote will make the best choice regardless of any sappy , saccharine comments that turn people away . My request to mlive and all news media individuals is no more art critic comments . If people wanted them , they would ask .  drawknife said : I about Van Gogh if he had been a contemporary ? Frankly I 'm amazed at all the whining about Art Prize . It 's a gift ! Enjoy it !  Muse responded : I agree ! Clearly , some pieces of work are more involved and " original " than others , but the important thing is the process , individuals tapping into their own creative spirit , and what this event brings to the Grand Rapids Community . I 'd have to bet that even the art critics out there started with a box of crayons and a coloring book .  I find it interesting that Artprize and its democratic process for deciding what is best in show was enthusiastically celebrated by the media , yet when the results come in there is all this ringing of hands over the consequence . Mr. Becherer is a thoughtful writer ( I totally disagree with him , however , over La Porte 's work being worthy of any prize . It strikes me as one of the most cynical pieces of art in the museum , since all it really that has been projected/enlarged onto paper . College drawing project 101 . And then there is his patriotic subject matter and it 's appeal to voters . Talk about manipulative ! It completely insulates him from criticism. ) , but why should any one person , regardless of their expertise , be given any privileged " soapbox " ? Is n't the point of Artprize that everyone is an expert and no one should be telling anyone how to vote ? Is n't it contradictory for the Press to be weighing in on the process at all ?