Scientist finds evidence of pre-Big Bang events
http://www.tgdaily.com/space-features/52753-scientist-finds-evidence-of-pre-big-bang-events

scientist finds evidence of pre-big bang events  a leading oxford university cosmologist says he has been able to observe the effects of cosmic events that preceded the big bang .  roger penrose says that by examining the cosmic microwave background radiation , he 's discovered echoes of events before the big bang that 's generally believed to have kicked off our universe .  penrose says that black hole encounters prior to the big bang would leave an observable affect on our own universe , in the form of concentric circles around galaxy clusters within which there would be anomolously low variation in temperature .  penrose has long posited the idea that so-called inflationary theory - the idea that the universe was crated by the big bang and has been expanding ever since - is wrong . instead , he proposes a theory called conformal cyclic cosmology , which requires no beginning to the universe .  and the data backs this theory up , he says .  " the analysis of wilkinson microwave background probe 's ( wmap ) cosmic microwave background he says in a report on the arvix website .  " this is confirmed when the same analysis is applied to boomerang98 data , eliminating the possibility of an instrumental cause for the effects . these observational predictions of ccc would not be easily explained within standard inflationary cosmology . "  the circles would have been created by a series of ' shockwaves ' representing events before the last big bang .  " if you 're not accepting inflation , you 've got to have something else which does what inflation does . in the scheme that i 'm proposing , you have an exponential expansion but it 's not in our aeon - i use the term to describe the period from our big bang until the remote future , " penrose told the bbc .  " i claim that this aeon is one of a succession of such things , where the remote future of the previous aeons somehow becomes the big bang of our aeon . "