Thayer Evans of Fox Sports Continues His Witch Hunt Against ...
http://thebiglead.com/2010/11/29/thayer-evans-of-fox-sports-continues-his-witch-hunt-against-auburns-cam-newton/

auburn 28 , alabama 27 will go down as one of the most memorable iron bowls in the storied history of the rivalry . cam newton , who will in the heisman , was brilliant in rallying the tigers from a 24-0 deficit . with so many terrific storylines , why did thayer evans of fox sports produce this silly column about newton not talking to the media ?  auburn 's much-maligned defense produced at least two heroes -- antonie carter and nick fairley -- in the comeback win . newton , whether he wins a title or not , has produced one of the best seasons any sec qb has ever had . he proved that when bottled up on the ground , he can beat you through the air . his nfl stock continues to soar . the win virtually cemented auburn 's spot in the national championship game . the tigers were n't even in the silly preseason top 20 !  all of which makes evans ' jihad against newton puzzling and frankly , disappointing . ( evans , a highly-thought of his early months at fox in what appears to be some kind of ' look , i 'm worth my big contract ' display . ) what 's even more surprising is that other than gregg doyel of cbs sports , nobody in the media ( or even all the bloggers who like to say they ' cover the media ' ) has called out evans for this bizarre 6 week attack on newton .  evans has let you know he wo n't vote for newton for heisman , and does n't want you to , either . he 's written about 2-3 year old academic allegations that have no bearing on eligibility ( not to mention mississippi st. knew about when it was recruiting newton ) . allegedly , evans phoned enough professors at auburn poking around about newton that someone put evans ' phone number on a message board . ca n't wait to see how many newton hit-pieces evans churns out in the six weeks between the sec championship -- assuming auburn defeats south carolina -- and the national title game .  did evans really need n't talking to the media ? not only was auburn 28 , alabama 27 college football 's game of the year , but it had to be one of the five greatest wins in the last 20 years of auburn football . and you 're asking people about cam newton 's silence ? auburn and all the participants in l'affaire newton have gone into bunker mode . been that way for a couple weeks .  here 's a simple , logical answer : uh , there 's an investigation going on , and instead of fielding 37 questions about you-know-what , why not just ignore the questions altogether ?