Miss Massachusetts Teen USA Kay Tetreault of South Hadley wants ...
http://www.masslive.com/news/index.ssf/2010/11/miss_massachusetts_teen_usa_kay_tetreault_south_hadley.html

miss massachusetts teen usa kay tetreault of south hadley wants to make anti-bullying message part of agenda  south hadley - kay tetreault , 17 and a senior at south hadley high school , was crowned miss massachusetts teen usa in lowell on sunday , bringing glory to a school that 's had its share of hard times in the past year .  the miss usa contests , associated with donald trump , were established in 1951 . they 're different from the miss america contests . former channel 22 reporter latoya foster was a miss massachusetts usa winner .  tetreault said she has been watching beauty pageants on tv since she was about 6 years old . " i just knew that someday i would be miss teen usa ! " she said excitedly on monday .  and why should n't she ? she gets " mostly a 's " at south hadley high , holds a job ( 10 hours a week in summer , six the rest of the year ) , commutes to a gym in the eastern part of .  " i 'm very dedicated and very driven , " said tetreault .  she loves to talk and she 's not shy . she delighted classmates by wearing her crown and sash to school the day after she won them .  not that she 's a diva . last year , she won the title " miss congeniality " in the pageant .  she was one of 48 girls who competed in the three-day event this year . in it , young women show off their beauty and physical fitness in bathing suits and gowns ( tetreault wore a gold one with a mermaid-like flare ) , and are interviewed both behind the scenes and in front of an audience .  unlike the miss america pageants , the usa contests have no talent component . not that it would have been an issue for tetreault . she has been a dancer for 12 years .  she is no newcomer to pageants . her mom , laurie , began entering her when she was a toddler , and kay decided to resume the practice as but said miss massachusetts teen usa was a whole new ballgame .  she worked especially hard on her communication skills . " i knew they were n't just going to ask me what my favorite color was ! " she said .  kay has one older brother , in arizona , who has always been a supporter . " the whole entire family is really ecstatic about it , " she said .  among her prizes is a full scholarship to the barbizon modeling school . nice , but kay has her eye on a career as a nutritionist . she plans to take a class at stcc next semester and then go to boston university , which offers a nutrition major at its sargent college .  like other sensitive residents of south hadley , kay is conscious of the shadow cast by the suicide last year of phoebe prince , who had been bullied . as a model for other youngsters , she wants to make an anti-bullying message part of her agenda .  although her attitude is unrelentingly positive , she wants kids her a tight-knit community and having something go terribly wrong . "