12 days of Groupon clones: BuyWithMe
http://vator.tv/news/2010-12-14-12-days-of-groupon-clones-buywithme

12 days of groupon clones : buywithme  buywithme ceo cheryl rosner steps down  updated 12/16/10 : cheryl rosner will be replaced temporarily by buywithme 's cpo david wolfe . rosner will remain on the company 's advisory board .  i 'm always a little startled and disturbed when i see groupon clones that really seem to have committed themselves wholeheartedly to copying every groupon feature , down to the voice and style of writing . it 's creepy ... like finding out you accidentally slept with your spouse 's twin . have n't we all been there ...  but there is something to be said for a company that musters up the nerve to shamelessly mimic another company down to the last detail . that takes spunk . so why not celebrate those companies with a 12 days of groupon clones event ? each day , vatornews will feature one of the top groupon clones .  today 's groupon clone : buywithme , which happens to have news of its own today . ceo cheryl rosner stepped down tuesday after being with skyrocketed this year , buywithme has flatlined and rosner , former president of expedia , as well as the president and ceo of ticketsnow before it sold to ticketmaster in 2008 , will be leaving the company .  buywithme was founded in march 2009 and has raised a total of $21.5 million from matrix partners and bain capital ventures . in july , the new york-based company raised a whopping $16 million , which was used to expand buywithme 's reach to more than two dozen cities throughout the united states . earlier this year , the company operated in only five markets , but today it has footholds in 11 .  this is one of those companies that attempts to mirror groupon 's subtle humor , but just ca n't seem to capture the irreverence . that 's the part i never get -- i understand wanting to copy the business model and everything else , but when companies copy the groupon voice , i just feel embarrassed for them . it 's like coming out with a comedy about high school geeks trying to get laid . porky 's and slapping your name on it .  what buywithme does offer that differs ever so slightly from groupon is a map showing the precise location of the business being featured . but other than that , it 's about what you would expect from a clone .