Amazing Race Winners Discuss Making History
http://www.people.com/people/article/0,,20449482,00.html

amazing race winners discuss making history  it took 17 seasons but an all-female team finally finished first on the amazing race . los angeles doctors nat strand , 31 , and kat chang , 35 , spoke with people about the highs and lows of their history-making run and why the experience means so much more than the money . ( not that being able to pay off medical school debt is n't also putting a smile on their face . )  does it feel good to finally be able to talk about making history ? nat : it was harder in the beginning but after a month it got easy . i almost forgot it had happened in real life . kat : at first , you want to tell everyone . we 've had to keep the secret for about six months . but it was fun for our friends and family to go along for the ride and get nervous .  did the chance to be the first all-female team to win motivate you ? nat : we always play hard female winners . we just wanted to race in a classy , graceful fashion and do our best . the fact that we 're the first female-female team to win is an extra honor . kat : we both love the show and we 'd still have wanted to do it even if a female team had won before .  what is it about your team that allowed you to finish first ? kat : we 've worked together before in many situations where we have to try to get a specific task done often under stressful circumstances . that 's a very different dynamic than being related or dating . nat : we 're pretty equal partners . we have a similar level of physical fitness , similar backgrounds and we think the same way . it made it easy to work together . there was definitely not a feeling of one person carrying the other in any way . i know what helps kat and what does n't and likewise . we also handle fatigue and stress daily as doctors .  it seemed important to you to healthy active diabetic that was n't letting the disease set limitations in my life . i got emails throughout the show from mothers of newly diagnosed kids . one wrote me that her daughter had only been diabetic for four days and they watched the show together in the hospital . she said , " look at her . she does n't look any different than other racers . " those kinds of messages are important to get out there .  what was your favorite place or challenge ? nat : when we were in ghana in second-to-last place , trying to get that coffin to the warehouse , suddenly on that busy african highway all these kids gathered together to show us the way . we were running in a pack , laughing and smiling -- kat : as we were carrying a giant lobster coffin . we are on the verge of being eliminated but it was so ridiculous and cool that we had to take a moment to laugh .  what was the hardest moment ? kat : eating the sheep 's head as a vegetarian hardest leg was oman in large part because we used the map that was misleading and we went the wrong direction for about six hours . fortunately , gary and mallory had the same map and were seven hours behind . nat : if i ever have to drive a stick around the deserts of oman again , it will be too soon .  that also speaks to how even a good team needs luck to win.nat:the race is like life . some people get good luck and some bad and in the end , it is usually a fair shake . a lot of it is how you get yourself out of a bad situation . you have to avoid huge mistakes and recovering from bad luck like a flat tire . kat : and sometimes you have to count on others having bad luck .  do patients recognize you ? kat : in the last couple of weeks , pretty much everyday one or two patients recognize me . it 's uncomfortable because we 're private people , but it has been made easier by how nice come to appointments with cameras and things for me to sign and bring their kids .