Meeting Again for the First Time
http://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2010/12/23/meeting-again-for-the-first-time/

meeting again for the first time  it 's friday afternoon , and that means clinic . it 's 1 p.m. , and that means i 'm walking to get samantha from the waiting room for our therapy session . i take a deep breath before i open the door , and find myself looking forward to our session .  " hello , samantha , " i say , " i 'm dr. hufford . come on back . "  i always reserve the same room for our work , hoping that it will help her to remember that we 've met before . samantha and i have met many times before , but for her , every session is like meeting again for the first time . she is stuck in an unrelenting present , experiencing life about an hour at a time , before her anterograde amnesia -- an inability to remember new events -- sweeps the memories away , floating just out of her reach .  " cognitive difficulties " is the way that her medical record describes it . a everything from before about 15 years ago . she remembers going to college , having friends and ambitions , and falling in love . but her description of the accident is distant and clinical ; a factual recitation of what she has been told happened . in a casual conversation you might not realize that you were talking to someone who would , only hours later , have no recollection of ever meeting you .  in clinical terms , her short-term memory is unable to be consolidated into long-term memory . to samantha , she can sense that her memories are just out of reach , as though if she only tried hard enough they would come flooding back to her .  but the flood never comes .  samantha 's clever , self-deprecating sense of humor was endearing right away . she reminded me of what one of my clinical supervisors used to say -- being able to laugh at yourself is the best single indicator of mental health . but her self-deprecating joke from our first session was repeated in our second session , and then again fourth session , i felt nauseous as she started it again . the joke is a mirthless reminder of what samantha has lost , and what she continues to lose : with each passing hour , the amnesia continually washes over her , pulling her memories out to sea in an undertow of neurotransmitters run amok .  after each of my psychotherapy sessions , i dutifully make an entry into my patient 's medical record , choosing prepackaged dropdown phrases . ' the patient choose one : denied , acknowledged auditory hallucinations , ' ' mood was choose one : euthymic , elevated , labile , constricted , flat , ' suicidal ideation was : choose one : not present , present but with no plan , present with plan ' . click , click , click , and i try not to think about the fact that my session notes for samantha are all the same , the exact same .  our hours together are spent oscillating between creating simple printed reminders for her to post in her room reminding her not to dwell on specific worries , i can please help . there is no place in the session note for her questions -- questions not about the meaning of life , but the meaning of her life , about feeling lonely and wondering who would ever want to be with her . she thinks that she is broken , and wonders what kind of life she can ever have , unanchored from the past . she remarks how well i seem to understand her struggles , unaware that my prescient empathy is an accidental byproduct of her amnesia .  psychotherapy is not my day job . except for a few hours every friday afternoon , my working life is spent in drug development , designing and running clinical trials of new medicines for psychiatric problems . that time speeds by , punctuated by meetings , teleconferences , reviews of scientific papers , and summaries of how a new drug compares to placebo in clinical trials of hundreds of patients . it is clean and tidy work . in contrast , the time that i volunteer on friday afternoons is a chance to wade into the messiness , violence , and ugliness that is a world away from my office in la jolla .  as the fridays pass by , one day i hear that the famous neurology patient , h.m. , has died . h.m. 's amnesia was remarkable , and decades of research into his deficits illuminated , among other things , that declarative memory ( knowledge of facts and events ) was separate from procedural memory ( how to do things ) . in short , it is possible to learn something , and yet be unaware that you know it . upon his death , his brain was sent to san diego 's brain observatory for dissection and digital imaging . one morning , i log on to a website that is streaming live video of the transection of his brain . the automated surgical scraper takes another pass at his frozen brain as the lab technicians update the accompanying blog noting , " the ventricles can now be seen ! " it 's neuroscience as performance art .  i close my browser before the next scrape across his brain and look of palm trees . i wonder whether i could live samantha 's life , dutifully waiting for a medical advance that has yet to come , while not even knowing how long i 've been waiting . i am sure that i could not , drunk as i am on the good fortune of my life . i think of the expectant look on her face in the waiting room every friday , as she sits there with grace and patience , surrounded by people impatiently waiting for their 10 minutes with a physician and a prescription for what ails them .  i have no pills for samantha , and know that for such complex patients a single clinical trial is unlikely to ever be run -- samantha 's problems are too complex , and the rarity of patients with such disorders is insufficient for the business of medicine to ever work in her favor . i feel like an agnostic little drummer boy , dutifully drumming my drum while chastising myself for not having more to offer .  am i helping samantha ? i think that i might the feeling is quickly swept away , floating just out of my reach . and then , busy with my work and happy life , another week is gone . it 's friday afternoon again , and that means clinic . it 's 1 p.m. , and that means i 'm walking to get samantha from the waiting room for our therapy session . i take a deep breath before i open the door , and find myself looking forward to our session . " hello samantha , " i say . " i 'm dr. hufford . come on back . "  last reviewed : by john m. grohol , psy.d. on 23 dec 2010originally published on psychcentral.com on 23 dec 2010 . all rights reserved .  about michael hufford , phd  dr. michael hufford is vice president of clinical development at cypress bioscience , co-founder and ceo of mindapps , and a part-time clinical psychologist in the department of internal medicine at the university of california , san diego .