Ghana loses ›2.43m to fire in January, February 2014
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/Ghana-loses-2-43m-to-fire-in-January-February-2014-306612

Ghana loses ? 2.43m to fire in January , February 2014  Fire disasters that keep striking the country have caused damage to life and properties worth GH ? 2,427,911.00 .  This colossal amount , which is the total of various values placed on properties destroyed across the country , merely covers January and February 2014 .  According to statistics made available by the Ghana National Fire Service ( GNSF ) , Accra tops the list with a total damage valued at GH ? , 168,260 , followed by Western Region ( WR ) with GH ? 96,680 , then Brong Ahafo Region ( BAR ) GH ? 80,621 while that of Volta Region ( VR ) stands at GH ? 60,270 .  The Northern Region ( NR ) recorded GH ? 14,780 while Tema ( TR ) had GH ? 7,300 . The cost of items which were salvaged was GH ? 7,070 .  Currently , there has been 300 domestic fires , 71 bush fires , and 107 commercial fires all totalling 779 . The number of persons who got injured  It is expected that the figures for March and April would increase as the country keeps recording rampant fire outbreaks .  For the whole of 2013 , the cost of damage from disasters across all the 10 regions of the country was GH ? 25,081,919.05 .  Meanwhile , there was a total of 5489 fire outbreaks across the nation last year which injured 1,128 persons and caused 213 deaths .  Although the year has just hit the quarter mark , the country has been already whacked by fire disasters of various levels of intensity .  Among them was the conflagration that devoured 200 shops in the secondhand clothes market in Accra and rendered 2,000 traders jobless in March .  In addition , more than 500 traders lost their sources of livelihood when an inferno engulfed sections of the Kumasi Central Market in February , while the Timber Market in Accra was also gutted by fire early this April .  Just last Saturday , over 5,000 wooden stores and accommodation units at the Konopka Market at Agblogbloshie in Accra , got destroyed by fire . , have been rendered homeless .  Apart from the properties , a mother and her four children were also killed by fire at Kwabriem , a suburb of Ejisu in the Ashanti Region .  Unfortunately , although there has not been substantive prosecutions to prove that such disasters are arsons ( despite the assistance of a crack US fire investigative team last year to identify the cause of the fires ) , the major causes of the fire outbreaks have been generally and collectively identified as non-observance of basic fire safety regulations offered by the GNFS , a conclusion similar to what the US team observed .  Very often these fire disasters start from seemingly innocuous sources that we may sometimes be tempted to underrate , such as inappropriate disposal of the stubs of smoked cigarettes , gas leakage , mishandling of electronic equipment and illegal electricity connections among others .  But not until we become wary of these things , it would indeed be an arduous task to nip fire outbreaks in the bud .  For example , last year , President John Mahama disclosed Makola Market , experts traced its genesis to an illegal electrical connection .  While in the past , markets were hubs of activity only in the daytime , increasingly , they have become shanty towns characterised by hundreds of unauthorised residential structures of different shapes and sizes .  It is not unusual to find residents operating propane gas stoves and electrical equipment at night , which sometimes trigger fires that the Fire Service is helpless in extinguishing because of the complicated way of siting structures that impede speedy access to the fires .  Outside of urban areas , bush fires are a common fire disasters in the country and have also been identified as the largest single cause of the ecological degradation and fast decreasing productive capacity of the environment .  Apart from the effects of bush fires on crop production , their effects on livestock production are rather worrying .  Bushfires became a significant part of public discourse in the early 1980s when they exacerbated drought conditions and worsened the famines that Ghana experienced in those times , forcing the promulgation of laws to prevent PNDC Law 46 ) .  However , not even these legislative interventions were sufficient in preventing the behaviours that result in bushfires , despite provisions that punish the breach of these laws , hence the establishment of the National Wildlife Policy in 2005 to provide a more holistic methodology for preventing bushfires .  This includes more emphasis on public education on the causes and effects of bush fires .  In the end , public education might be the key to preventing the fires that have become a frightfully constant feature in Ghana .