VEEP dedicates 5000 Seater Presby Chapel in Akropong Akwapim
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/religion/VEEP-dedicates-5000-Seater-Presby-Chapel-in-Akropong-Akwapim-306973

veep dedicates 5000 seater presby chapel in akropong akwapim  the vice president , kwesi amissah-arthur , has stated that the church is not just the physical structure that we see as a people , but also a spiritual abode where christians find the love of god in al times .  the vice-president , made this known on the 19th april 2014 , with the support of his wife , mrs. matilda amissah-arthur , the moderator of the general assembly of the presbyterian church , rt . rev. prof. emmanuel martey , joined hundreds of christians at the grace congregation of the presbyterian church of ghana at akuapem-akropong , in the eastern region , to dedicate it 's newly built chapel and manse .  he used the occasion to praise the leadership and members of the church for exhibiting unity , which has helped in pulling resources together to build the chapel , in record time and encouraged members of the grace congregation to reach out to people with the message of salvation , the reason for which christ came into the world , which stated that dedicating the grace chapel on easter was phenomenon and prayed that the house would be used for the glory of god .  the moderator of the general assembly of the presbyterian church , rt . rev. prof. emmanuel martey in a sermon said fellowship is one of the strengths of christians and encouraged members of the congregation not to forsake the assembly of the saints , as the bible admonishes .  deserving servants in the church were awarded for their immense contributions , in diverse ways , to the growth of the church , over the years .  since its establishment in 1996 , by the grace team , led by evangelist dr. ebenezer abboah-offei , the grace congregation had followed the patterns of the new testament church , which added people daily and multiplied the numbers in the church .  its maiden service began in one of the classrooms in a former girl 's school , with some 33 people . now with a 2500 member congregation , the erection of the church edifice , this took eight years to complete .  the church 's administrative hub . the faithful call it a house of prayer , and divine favour , and a place where blessings are graciously poured on those who even do n't deserve it .