Ghana Needs a National Research Foundation - Prof. Buah-Bassuah
http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/Ghana-Needs-a-National-Research-Foundation-Prof-Buah-Bassuah-307915

ghana needs a national research foundation - prof. buah-bassuah  prof. paul kingsley buah-bassuah , professor of laser and optical physics of the university of cape coast , has advocated the institution of a national research foundation to support research .  he said the nation as a matter of priority should support and equip research laboratories to improve upon research and development and that research work should be the immediate technological transform , since most developed countries adopted these strategies to come out with new products .  prof. buah-bassuah said this during his inaugural lecture in cape coast on the topic " tailoring light to discovery : the potential factor . "  he said for any meaningful research to go on , there was the need for funds in terms of scholarship for the training of upcoming scientists , equipment for research work as well as exchange programmes among universities .  the lecture , which was to showcase some achievements of prof buah-bassuah with regards to capacity building through the establishment and acquisition of equipment for laser and fibre optics centre of the , prof. dabire domwini kuupole .  the lecture was interspersed with musical interludes , cultural display and video shows and was attended by traditional authorities , professors , deans and heads of departments and faculties , heads of senior high schools and the clergy .  the lecture explored the modalities of discovery using any form of light to explain the fundamental concepts and technological implications derived from the investigations stretching from agriculture to industry .  it also explored the use of liquid drop dynamics to explain in terms of surface tension , how the drop after fragmentation breaks up into fractals before diffusion .  light is said to scatter on both smooth and rough surfaces and in applying such phenomena of light scattering , the sun is used to monitor pollutants from industries and the laser is used to monitor soils nutrients .  prof. buah-bassuah also stressed the need for the government and other stakeholders to ensure that basic incentives that are given to researchers in terms of monies to pay for their publications , books and register their patent should be maintained with the necessary .  " the government should provide ways to maintain our intellectual property right from research to equip our laboratories with our own state funds to safeguard us from our frustrations , " he said .  prof. buah-bassuah explained that research work gave new ideas for technological build-up and strengthened teachings , adding that most work done by researchers is owned by the university and could give additional income to the state .  he said there was the need to strategize to protect people 's intellectual property right from research , as well as their discovery , , noting that the state miss-out a lot of ideas since some of these discoveries can not be translated into technology now in ghana .  " all our universities should have patent and publication officers to streamline both inflow and outflow of knowledge from research work , our knowledge from research can put us in different arena of progress " he added .  prof. buah-bassuah said the way forward with research findings should aim at the immediate benefit to the society .  prof. kuupole commended prof buah- bassuah for lafoc ) at ucc which marketed the university in the international market .  prof. kuupole called for a collaborative effort from professors and lecturers to come out with works that would impact on societal development and take people out of poverty .  prof. buah-bassuah who was born 62 years ago had his basic education at twifu wamaso in the central region and has gone through the academic ladder to be a professor of laser and optical physics .  he has to his credit lensmeter to measure the power of a lens , fluorometers and optical digital system for track analysis . he has also organized 15 international conferences and training courses in cape coast and attended 96 international conferences and has 75 publications .