TourismNZ planning international campaigns to focus on Hobbit ...
http://wellington.scoop.co.nz/?p=47169

with three months to go until the world premiere in wellington of the hobbit : an unexpected journey , tourism new zealand has been working to ensure new zealand benefits from the increase in international attention .  a creative theme for all activity , fantasy is reality has been confirmed to ensure there is a strong connection between the films and new zealand . key international media and opinion leader targets have been identified . advertising schedules are locked in . broadcast footage , captured .  " one of our most exciting milestones will be reached in late august when the new 100% pure new zealand campaign will get its first public airing , drawing together the themes ' 100% pure ' and ' 100% middle earth ' " says chief executive kevin bowler .  " our new advertisement will be placed on tv , cinema and on-line , and new pages and imagery will go live on newzealand.com .  " this will be the first screening of the latest evolution of the 100% pure new zealand campaign and we are pretty excited zealand is already well underway with its activity to convert the international attention new zealand will draw from the movies , into travel .  kevin says , " international media attention surrounding the films has been growing over the past few months and we have already hosted a number of journalists who are writing specifically about new zealand as the location for the films .  " we have hobbit-specific pages on our corporate website , and images on our image library , providing a hub for all the news and information people may need .  " consumers visiting newzealand.com will already find a " home of middle-earth " section offering a range of experiences and products that are based around the filming of the lord of the rings .  " we were also thrilled to be a part of the weta booth at comic con in the middle of july , working alongside air new zealand , hobbiton and film new zealand to promote new zealand , to those who attended the exhibition . "  comic con is now regarded as the largest comic book and attending .  " as we work to leverage the hobbit : an unexpected journey and the hobbit : there and back again , we will connect the landscapes of middle-earth with the experiences of new zealand .  " through our marketing activity we will show how easy it is to come here , see middle-earth first-hand , and enjoy all the exciting and fun experiences new zealand has to offer , " he says .