Double choc Mars bar cookies
http://www.stuff.co.nz/life-style/food-wine/recipes/7437281/Double-choc-Mars-bar-cookies

A girlfriend of mine , who very inconveniently skipped off to Berlin like the creative wonder child that she is , creates possibly the most epic mars bar biscuits in existence .  NEED TO KNOW  Main ingredient  Chocolate  Type of dish  Baking  Course  Snacks  Cooking time  &lt;30 min  Serves/makes  24  Special options  None  She keeps the recipe written down in the safe house of her mind , making it a little difficult for the rest of us to replicate the magic .  So I 've gone out on a limb and made my own here . I 'd be lying if I said these biscuits were anything other than a chocolate assault .  With a combo of white chocolate , dark chocolate and salt sprinkled mars bar , they are sustaining in a fortify-the-soul kind of way .  They are one of those rare food groups that go equally well with a glass of milk as they do a glass of red ; and I can attest to both . 've added it here because I like equal parts crunch and chewiness in my biscuit ) just replace in equal weight with brown sugar .  This dough can also be frozen for future use . I am in awe of anyone with the kind of discipline to employ this option , if you are one of these people , I think I would rather like to meet you . I think I need proof they/you exist.DOUBLE CHOCOLATE MARS BAR COOKIES  2 eggs  1 tsp vanilla extract  125g butter , softened  160g brown sugar  20g corn syrup  150g plain flour  40g cocoa powder  ? teaspoon bicarbonate soda  100g white chocolate  100g dark chocolate  2 mars bars , sliced  A generous pinch of salt  1 . Preheat the oven to 150C .  2 . Add the eggs and vanilla to a separate bowl and whisk lightly to combine . Beat the butter and sugar until pale and creamy . Add the egg mixture and beat until incorporated .  3 . Add the corn syrup and beat briefly gently to incorporate then add the chunks of chocolate .  4 . Roll tablespoons of the mixture into biscuit shapes and place on a baking tray lined with baking paper . Gently press a slice of mars bar into the centre of each biscuit and sprinkle over a little salt .  5 . Bake in the oven for 15 minutes . Allow to cool on the tray before consuming en masse.