Double the fun at Friendly Bay event
http://www.odt.co.nz/regions/north-otago/195102/double-fun-friendly-bay-event

Double the fun at Friendly Bay event  Daniel O'Brien won the best dressed award and the trophy for best overall birdman last year . Photo by Peter McIntosh .  Waitangi Day at the beach is the appeal of the Oamaru Harbour regatta and birdman competition to be held this year on February 6 .  Both competitions are staged annually , but this year a co-ordinated approach is being taken to attract people to Friendly Bay at Oamaru Harbour .  " Ultimately , I would love to see lots of families down at Friendly Bay with their picnic rugs , chilly bins , frisbees and rugby balls , really enjoying the day , " Waitaki event development officer Jan Kennedy said .  As well as the opening of Signal Hut , the harbour regatta and the birdman competition , visitors to Friendly Bay would be entertained with live music , including Johnny and the Cashtones , Gatling Fun , Jef Mitchell and Kit McGregor .  Children 's activities and food , beverage and coffee vendors would also be on offer .  of the events planned for the regatta included Seagull outboard motor races , rowing races , sailing dinghy races , bathing beauties ( men and women in traditional and retro costumes ) and sand castle building .  Traditional and classic boats would be on the water , as well as on display . There would also be a display of coracle seamanship .  The Scott 's Own Sea Scouts would also be on the water in their sailing cutters .  The regatta is organised by the Friendly Bay Boat Society , which is based at the Tyne Street Boatshed .  The birdman competition , in which competitors throw themselves off a ramp on Holmes Wharf , is organised by Port FM and , in the past , has been staged on a different day from the boat regatta .  This year , the two will be held on the same day to boost the fun .  " It seems logical that with all of the individual events that are happening on this special day that we should look at a co-ordinated marketing approach , " @ @ @ @