Search ends at Dotcom Mansion; police seize computers, artworks ...
http://auckland.scoop.co.nz/2012/01/search-continues-at-dotcom-mansion-18-vehicles-seized-including-rolls-royce/

News from NZ Police The search of the Dotcom Mansion at 186 Mahoenui Road in Coatsville , Auckland finished just before midnight last night , concluding the work required there by Police and the Organised and Financial Crime Agency New Zealand .  The search followed the arrest of four men yesterday morning as part of a U.S. led investigation into criminal copyright infringement .  Police have seized a variety of equipment including computers and documents for the purposes of evidence . Assets including luxury cars and artwork have been restrained and passed to the control of the Official Assignee .  Some of the larger items restrained remain at the property and the Official Assignee will continue working to remove these in the coming days .  Detective Inspector Grant Wormald of OFCANZ says the team will continue working at the North Shore Policing Centre through the weekend .  " Our focus now is on completing all the documentation required by Crown Law ahead of the next court appearance on Monday .  " The team of four FBI staff will also remain working Police located two firearms at the property yesterday and a 55-year-old New Zealand man has been charged with unlawful possession of a pistol . He was released on Police bail and is due in court on 26th January .  News from NZ Police -- January 20 New Zealand Police will tonight continue searching a property at 186 Mahoenui Road , Coatsville , Auckland as part of the FBI and US Department of Justice led investigation into criminal copyright infringement .  This morning three men were arrested at the house -- called the Dotcom Mansion -- and a fourth man was arrested at a nearby property .  The four men are Kim Schmitz/Dotcom , 37 , German citizen resident in Hong Kong and New Zealand , Finn Batato , 38 , a citizen and resident of Germany , Mathias Ortmann , 40 , German citizen and resident in Hong Kong , and Bram van der Kolk , 29 , Dutch citizen also resident in New Zealand .  All are facing indictments in the U.S. for their part in an alleged criminal copyright infringement and money laundering operation on addresses across Auckland today .  A total of 18 luxury vehicles have been restrained and placed in the control of the Official Assignee . These vehicles include several top end Mercedes , a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe ( photo above ) and a 1959 pink Cadillac . Various artwork , electronic equipment and bank accounts were also restrained .  The vehicles are valued at around NZ$6m , while up to NZ$11m in cash was restrained in various accounts .  Detective Inspector Grant Wormald says today 's operation was a successful one despite a less than straightforward entry to the Dotcom Mansion :  " Police arrived in two marked Police helicopters . Despite our staff clearly identifying themselves , Mr Dotcom retreated into the house and activated a number of electronic locking mechanisms .  " While Police neutralised these locks , he then further barricaded himself into a safe room within the house which officers had to cut their way into .  " Once they gained entry into this room they found Mr Dotcom near a firearm which had the appearance of a shortened shotgun knocking at the front door " said Mr Wormald .  All four men were denied bail in a hearing at the North Shore District Court this afternoon . They will appear again on Monday 23rd January when extradition proceedings against them will continue .  1 comment :  I.C.Mabbitt , 9 . February 2012 , 20:54  What is happening here ? This man has not even been tried in court &amp; his assets have been seized ! The judge at his hearing for bail did not even have the facts of why he had been detained ! New Zealand has been TOLD to do this by the FBI . Are we a sovereign state or what ? Come clean John Key , who is pulling your strings ?