Man jokes despite having nail in his brain
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/world/195154/man-jokes-despite-having-nail-his-brain

man jokes despite having nail in his brain  an x-ray shows a nail embedded in dante autullo 's brain . autullo posted a picture of the x-ray on facebook during his ambulance ride between hospitals for surgery . ( ap photo/christ medical center &amp; hope children 's hospital )  gail glaenzer still ca n't believe that her fianc ? unknowingly shot a nail into his skull , let alone that he posted a picture of the x-ray on facebook during his ambulance ride between hospitals for surgery .  but she was joking about the circumstances friday , a day after doctors successfully removed the 3 ? -inch nail from dante autullo 's brain .  " dante says , ' i want it to make a necklace out of it , ' " glaenzer said .  glaenzer sat on friday in the lobby of advocate christ medical center in oak lawn , illinois , where autullo , 32 , of orland park , was listed in fair condition in the hospital 's intensive care unit . she was still trying to process just  " he feels good . he moved all his limbs , he 's talking normal , he remembers everything , " said glaenzer , 33 . " it 's amazing , a miracle . "  autullo was in his workshop using the nail gun on tuesday when it recoiled near his head , glaenzer said .  he felt what he thought was the point of the gun hit his head . but what really happened was that when the gun came in contact with his head , the sensor recognized a flat surface and fired , she said .  " i looked at it when he got home , and it just looked like ( his head ) was cut open , " she said .  with nothing to indicate that a nail had not simply " whizzed by his ear , " as autullo explained to her , she cleaned it with peroxide .  while there are pain-sensitive nerves on a person 's skull , there are n't any within the brain itself . that 's why he would have felt the nail strike penetrate the brain .  neither thought much about it , and autullo went on with his day , even plowing a bit of snow . but the next day when he awoke from a nap , feeling nauseated , glaenzer sensed something was wrong and suggested they go to the hospital .  at first autullo refused , but he relented after the two picked up their son at school wednesday evening .  a couple hours later an x-ray was taken , and there in the middle of his brain was a nail . doctors told autullo and glaenzer that the nail came within millimeters from the part of the brain that controls motor function . he was rushed by ambulance to the other hospital for more specialized care .  hospital spokesman mike maggio said the surgery took two hours , and the part of the skull that was removed for surgery was replaced with a titanium mesh . the surgeon did n't want to put that part of the skull back in place , fearing it might have been contaminated by the nail , he said . about how scared he was about what might have happened , he did express a recognition about coming close to death .  " he was joking with me , ( after surgery ) , ' we need to get the discovery channel up here to tape this , ' " she recalled him saying . " ' i 'm one of those medical miracles . ' "