Opinion: Five Digital Security Predictions for 2012
http://sociable.co/technology/opinion-five-digital-security-predictions-for-2012/

williams believes that digital security risks will not just threaten on our personal information but could threaten lives and livelihoods . this is n't scaremongering but a recognised threat ; this year the us department of defense announced its rules of engagement for cyber threats , they said , " cyber threats continue to grow in scope and severity on a daily basis . more than 60,000 new malicious software programs or variations are identified every day threatening our security , our economy and our citizens . "  hacking will cause loss of life throughout 2011 we have seen an increase in targeted cyber-attacks , and a number of high profile incidents involving critical infrastructure . many of these were suspected to be state-sponsored . in 2012 i expect this type of attack will not only continue -- but that given the type of systems being targeted , we will see at least one incident where direct loss of human life results .  export controls introduced for " lawful intercept " hacking tools want to export a nuclear missile to a " rogue state " course you ca n't . ditto for a long list of munitions , stun guns , ' dual use ' materials and much more . various computer security products -- especially those containing strong encryption -- are likewise prohibited from sale to those who the usa and its allies consider a threat to world peace . but bizarrely , the sale of computer technology designed to defeat computer security is not controlled in this way . so while it is illegal to sell software to those fighting for democracy in various states , supplying their governments with technology that allows their secret police to spy on private citizens is perfectly legal . hopefully 2012 will see export controls updated to remedy this bizarre double standard .  ever more sophisticated mobile threats emerge imagine if you could track the movements of an individual of interest to you anywhere they went . or read their email messages , spy on their sms messages , maybe even remotely eavesdrop on their conversations or take a few undetected photos or video clips from far away . orwellian nightmare ? no , this is the malware . we 've already seen a banking trojan which can infect both your pc and your mobile , in order to capture your online banking credentials and any one-time pin being sent to you by sms . this is just the tip of the iceberg and for 2012 i predict that some of the most audacious and intrusive of all cyber attacks will be those targeting mobile devices .  trust in digital certificates gets undermined users rarely think about digital certificates as they are hidden away in the ' plumbing ' of their daily electronic communications . the most that a typical user may be aware of is that the ' padlock ' symbol in their browser indicates their communication is with a confirmed entity and is secure as it traverses the internet . but is it ? 2011 saw multiple instances where compromises of certificate authorities ( " cas " ) allowed attackers to issue fraudulent certificates ( comodo and diginotar for instance ) . i fear that the ca business will suffer an increasing number of cyber attacks -- something it is vulnerable to because of its ( firefox ) recognise over 50 root certificates , and the electronic frontier foundation has mapped over 650 cas which major browsers trust directly or indirectly . secure web communication via the https protocol is only as strong as the security of the weakest of this myriad of cas and attackers have many targets to choose from . further ca compromises will severely test trust in the whole digital certificate system .  microsoft software patches move from monthly to weekly " patch tuesday " is the monthly event -- normally the second tuesday of the month -- which sees microsoft release security updates to remedy the most recently discovered security vulnerabilities in their products . the intention is to fix flaws before attackers have time to actively exploit them . but with a greater scramble by hackers to exploit flaws before patches are released and widely deployed , i think 2012 may see microsoft start to release their patches with greater frequency , perhaps weekly .