The Daily Fix: Thursday
http://www.thejournal.ie/the-daily-fix-thursday-35-312096-Dec2011/

every evening , thejournal.ie brings you a roundup of the day 's main stories -- plus any bits and pieces you may have missed ...  are we really that miserable ? irish people are among the most pessimistic in the entire eu about the economy , the government , the eu itself , and a number of other things , according to a new study .  many people 's wages could be set for a shake-up after the government published proposals to reform the jlc system , which sets minimum pay rates for several industries . the previous jlc arrangement was ruled unconstitutional earlier this year .  did you miss us ? parents joan and eamonn kelly dressed up in santa rig-outs to welcome their son luke -- and his new girlfriend -- home from australia for the first time in three years ( mark stedman/photocall ireland )  soccer pundit alan hansen has come under fire and been forced to apologise after calling black footballers " coloured " on last night 's match of the day -- amid the john terry and luis full participating member of the press council of ireland and supports the office of the press ombudsman . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of @ @