Buddhist philosophy inspires Woods Bagot design for Nan Tien ...
http://www.architectureanddesign.com.au/news/buddhist-philosophy-inspires-woods-bagot-design-fo

woods bagot has called on the teachings of buddhism to inform their design of an $18 million project in the wollongong suburb of berkeley , nsw .  the new nan tien bridge and plaza designs are the collaborative work of woods bagot and the precinct 's institute with the key deliverable of a pedestrian link between the nan tien buddhist temple and the institute and cultural centre .  the project will span over 4,600sqm and will provide kiosk and retail facilities as well as a landscaped bridge that will form a user-friendly passage between the temple and institute .  woods bagot are confident the development will invigorate the berkeley community : " the precinct will be alive with students , teachers , visitors and tourists alike . this bridge and plaza links the temple , institute and pagoda in a scheme designed to create a human-scale fabric for community gathering , " says georgia singleton , from woods bagot .  " the development has the potential to be the catalyst for rejuvenation of the community with a rich variety of mixed uses . students whilst becoming a tourist attraction itself . "  the firm says the design is inspired by the buddhist philosophy , highlighting the green space along the length of the bridge as symbolic of buddhism 's strong connection with the environment .  " the architecture is influenced by the principles of buddhist teachings , made manifest in a living green , land bridge design , " says woods bagot design leader alan j duffy .  woods bagot also designed the precinct 's university and cultural centre in 2013 . image : woods bagot  the design is a cultivation of humanistic buddhism says the firm , a reference which also informed their design of the precinct 's 6000sqm university and cultural centre in 2013 .  " in keeping with the humanistic buddhist teachings of fo guang shan , the architecture avoids hierarchy , is of the now , values the void and provides a neutral environment devoid of excess and materialism. "