Bill Benham Parklands
http://www.4bc.com.au/radio/bill-benham-parklands-20140520-38m4n

Search Site :  Bill Benham Parklands  4BC Afternoons : A new six hectare recreation and Fishing Park for Brisbane has been given the go ahead called Bill Benham Park .  It 's a $1.3 million recreation 6ha parkland along Bulimba Creek , stretching from Violet St towards Lytton Rd and the man behind getting this all off the ground is Bill Benham who is the Rotary Club of Port of Brisbane 's Secretary .  Not only is Bill leading the action plan for the recreational area , but he is also giving his name to the park .  Benham joined Michael and Clare to look at thie new development .  " About 7 or 8 years ago we went to John Campbell , who was the council for the Doboy water at that stage , and said , that we 'd love to have a park that we could develop . "  " He pointed me to and area of land which is off the end of Poppy Street which comes off Lytton Road where all the coal stores are  " The aim of the exercise once we saw that was to create a fishing park , " continued Benham , " and the reason for that was of course to take the people who fish on the Doboy Bridge away from there because that 's a very dangerous environment , and then give them an area where they could fish in the same creek . "  People do n't usually get parks named after them unless they 're dead !  Bill described what the park would consist of .  " There will be fishing benches there , there 's a fish cleaning bench , there 's covered picnic areas , walkways , there 's going to be a boardwalk over a marine environment area where the water comes in every tide , so the kids will be able to stand on the boardwalk and simply look down and watch crabs and fish and all the marine growth around the place . "  Ryan Murphy is the Councillor for the ward of Doboy , and he joined in the discussion .  Clare asked Murphy what will be called Bill Benham Parklands .  " We were thinking about names for the park , " explained Murphy , " and we were going over the local pineers , and obviously there was William Hemmant , who the suburb was named after and we thought , who 's done more work than any people to make this park a reality -- and it was Bill ! "