Brodie Grundy due for a rest - but not just yet
http://www.theage.com.au/afl/afl-news/brodie-grundy-due-for-a-rest--but-not-just-yet-20140520-zrj3h.html

Brodie Grundy due for a rest - but not just yet  Football writer with The Age  Brodie Grundy , while developing as a ruckman has been on the wrong side of the umpires . Photo : Sebastian Costanzo  Collingwood will continue to keep a close eye on how Brodie Grundy is handling his first full season as the club 's first-choice ruckman , and does n't expect him to play every game in the last half of the year .  But the 20-year-old , who will play his 16th game on Saturday , is n't ready for a rest yet .  " He 's going well , but we are conscious and very aware of the fact that he will need to be managed at some stage , " said coach Nathan Buckley .  Frees against .  The athletic Grundy has teamed mostly with Jarrod Witts this year , with Ben Hudson waiting in the VFL and Quinten Lynch recovering from a broken leg .  Advertisement  Grundy 's continued improvement has come with just one asterisk - he most in the league .  Buckley said Grundy and Witts were building a good partnership . " I think we 're getting better and better in that regard , and I think the connection between those boys and the midfielders at ground level is improving , ' ' he said .  " The fact we 've just come off a bye helps Brodie , so resting him is not in the forefront of our mind at the moment , but I 'd be very surprised if he played 22 games . It will more likely be 19 or 20 and we 'll make those decisions as we go down the track . "  Collingwood will consider calling Nathan Brown back into this week 's side to play West Coast , with the defender playing his third game in the VFL last weekend after time off to rest his injured shoulder .  Buckley thought defenders Jack Frost and Lachie Keeffe were beaten last week , but that his side generally struggled to apply enough defensive pressure to the Crows .  " Our defence is probably one of said . " The Adelaide forward structure asked a few questions of us that we were able to answer early days , but with 60 inside-50s against , you 're going to be in for a pretty tough job .  " We did well to keep Adelaide to 76 points given that supply , but Brown 's had three weeks back at VFL level and is ready to go if called upon .  " West Coast have been playing quite tall at both ends of the field and we 'll have a look at how they want to select their team and what 's working for them , but aerially they 're a great threat .  " We 'll have to consider our back mix to be able to cover that , but they 've got some pretty good ground-level players as well . We 're not under-estimating West Coast in any particular aspect . "  Alex Fasolo missed training on Tuesday for management reasons but will train later in the week and play , while Ben Reid is still some time off returning from a calf back into the side .  " He 'll need another week-and-a-half of full training , and he 's had two or three really solid sessions now , but all along I 've been really loath to be too specific , because you actually ca n't progress to the next stage until you 've got through this one , " Buckley said .  " Talking to Reidy , he 's really confident about where his body is , and the work that he 's been able to do in the last two or three weeks in particular . We 've been scanning it consistently to understand the progression of the injury , and that 's going to be good not just for Reidy but any other players in that situation .  " We can give Reidy more time . We 'll give him as much time as he likes because when he gets back we 'd like him to stay back and be a significant part of the second part of our year . "