Live gigs in Canberra this week
http://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/music/live-gigs-in-canberra-this-week-20140806-zyil8.html

the four-man sydney rock group a gentleman 's agreement are coming to rock the basement this friday . formed in 2012 , they have been working hard to bring you in-your-face lyrics , explosive riffs and tasty jams .  born and raised : graffiti artist smalls will be showing off his skills at #belcorepresent . photo : supplied  the basement , belconnen . tickets $15 on the door . 18+  8pm dmc championships  finally , after a long break between heats the dmc world dj championships are set to return to canberra in 2014 . not since buick made history with his third state title in 2008 have our local dj 's had a chance to rep the a.c.t and earn their stripes on the national dmc stage .  saturday  sydney 's hottest men star in their brand new show for 2014 six pack sensation extravaganza ! this year the guys have been working with one of australia 's leading choreographers to put together a brand new show f sexy dance routines with sensational costumes and ripped bodies .  complex of human strength and flexibility . photo : supplied  tipping his hat to the great mississippi delta bluesmen of the 1930s as well as the reckless abandon of the1960s , frank sultana is an award-winning bluesman channeling the working class ghosts of times gone by . proficient on slide guitar , frank 's sympathetic style and down-home sensitivities provide the listener with an authentic experience .  little more than a year on from their first show , canberra 's i exist delivered their debut lp i : a turn for the worse . punched out over a long weekend with engineer/mixer jason pc of blood duster , the record builds on the template established with their 7 inch three nails and a book of flaws . while the group remains grounded in hardcore , here , their stoner , sludge and doom influences really come to the fore : the monolithic riffage on show echoes the likes of electric wizard , eyehategod and sleep .  magpies city club , civic . tickets $10 on the door .  7.30pm circa  following the success of wunderkammer in 2013 through a daring interplay of complex acrobatics . a physical ode to the human body and spirit , s is raw energy , dazzling in its intensity . running until august 9 .  canberra theatre , civic . tickets from $35 available from  rest of the week  monday  8pm bone thugs n harmony  with over 50 sold out australian shows under their belt since 2010 , grammy-award-winning hip hop legends bone thugs n harmony are back with an exciting new line-up of cities and shows , hitting australian roads with the life down under tour . with over 30 million albums sold worldwide and collaborations with some of the most respected names in the business including 2pac , notorious b.i.g and mariah carey to name but a few , bone thugs continue to be one of the most popular hip hop groups of all time .  tuesday  7.30pm melody pool and marlon williams  two of australasia 's most exciting young musicians will join forces this july and august for a co-headline tour across the country . singer-songwriters melody pool , hailing from the from christchurch , new zealand will treat audiences to their outstanding individual talents for a run of shows that are certain to captivate audiences everywhere .  fly-bys  what 's goss : ever wondered what it would be like to watch a simpsons/family guy cross over ? well wonder no more . the simpsons meets family guy hour-long episode will air in the us on september 28 . it is apparently going to be the same episode that a major simpsons character is killed off .  watch : from the makers of the award-winning senna and exit through the gift shop comes all this mayhem . a documentary that tells the story of tas and ben pappas , brothers from melbourne who took the skateboarding world by storm , defeating tony hawk and crowned world champions ( #1 and #2 ) within a year . the movie will be showing at palace electric from august 28-31 .  listen : missy higgins has announced her new album missy higgins oz , an eclectic album of aussie cover versions and a quirky book of related essays , will be released , the loveable big brother from everybody loves raymond , is coming to canberra . tickets are on sale today at 9am from **28;225;toolong