Mark Thompson yet to make decision regarding AFL coaching future
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-08-07/thompson-not-thinking-about-2015/5656512

Mark Thompson yet to make decision regarding AFL coaching future  As his veterans start making their intentions clear on 2015 , Essendon coach Mark Thompson has far more important things to worry about .  Jason Winderlich announced on Wednesday that this AFL season would be his last , a decision that surprised Thompson given the 29-year-old 's form .  Paul Chapman , who will turn 33 in November , has made it clear he wants to play on but Dustin Fletcher has yet to say whether he wants to feature in a stunning 23rd AFL season during which the defender will turn 40 and likely pass the 400-game milestone .  Thompson is set to hand the reins back to club icon James Hird when the current season ends and the two-time premiership coach 's plans are unknown beyond that .  Will he stay at Essendon ? Will he even stay in the AFL ?  " I 'm not giving it too much thought . They 're busy days and you do n't actually get too much time to think about it do n't want to distract away from what I 'm doing .  " As a club we wanted it not to be a gap year , and it 's not . We 're still alive with a lot of improvement up our sleeves . "  Thompson said it had been a " long year " for everyone in the the industry , but that he was enjoying the final stretch .  " If you 're still a chance and ( your season is ) still alive , then you can jump out of bed and come to work and do whatever you have to do to get through , " he added .  " I 'm quite excited about the challenge . "  That was evident at the pre-match media conference for Friday night 's clash with Richmond , with Thompson at his wisecracking and whimsical best .  " I was surprised . I think he 's playing fantastic footy . But I 'm not with him when he tries to get out of bed every morning , " he said of Winderlich 's retirement 's all amicable . "  Thompson suggested the club would not attempt to influence Fletcher , who will miss the game against the Tigers due to groin and finger injuries .  " That 's up to Dustin , it 's not up to us , " he said .  " He 's got to make that decision himself . We 'll leave it completely up to him . "