Q&amp;A: Anna Lozynski
http://www.lawyersweekly.com.au/careers/15623-q-a-anna-lozynski

Q&amp;A : Anna Lozynski  Anna Lozynski , general counsel of L'Or ? al Australia &amp; New Zealand , talks about why in-house lawyers should say ' yes ' more often. x000D  Anna Lozynski , general counsel of L'Or ? al Australia &amp; New Zealand , talks about why in-house lawyers should say ' yes ' more often .  How did you come to be the GC in your present role and what advice can you offer to aspiring in-house lawyers/general counsel ? Having gained significant in-house experience in challenging business environments both locally and overseas I was attracted to , and felt well equipped for , a greenfield role . After receiving a lead that L'Or ? al was looking for a GC , and directly expressing my interest to the HR department , it was a surreal moment when I was called for an interview .  My advice for any aspiring in-house lawyers ( or any lawyer ) is to remain professionally flexible . Say " yes " more than " no " , and view each project , task or matter the business , be alive to industry issues and build strong working relationships at all levels .  The role of the General Counsel is diverse and multi-faceted . In light of the James Hardie case , where/how does your GC role fit in with the business ? I report directly to our CEO and also sit on the ANZ Management Committee which gives me a valuable line of sight into the business . Our CFO holds the position of company secretary . To an extent this structure minimises the risks brought into the spotlight in the James Hardie case . However , it 's certainly a fine art maintaining one 's independence and being a well-integrated trusted advisor whilst working across a gamut of issues within an extremely fast-paced business .  In your opinion , what do you consider to be the main challenges you face in your particular industry sector in the year ahead ? Greater harmonisation and trade facilitation between our local regulations and international regimes would be welcomed . Local adjustments to international standards can create a burden for business and an impediment to competition . a public stand against the unauthorised retailing of salon professional products in Australia . The aim of the media campaign is for consumers to understand that products purchased outside of our approved salon network may not comply with our brand quality and standards , and that these products could potentially contain diluted or expired formulas and may not be safe to use .  Subscribe to the free news bulletin  Lawyers Weekly is the leading authoritative source of independent news , analysis and opinion about the business of law in Australia . It includes expert opinion pieces , analysis of the issues impacting on the business of firms , broader geographic coverage of events and issues , regular technology reports as well as regular training &amp; education reports .