Broker targeted by charlatan insurance intermediary
http://www.insurancebusinessonline.com.au/news/broker-targeted-by-charlatan-insurance-intermediary-190710.aspx

Broker targeted by charlatan insurance intermediary  A NSW broker has made a complaint to the Office of Fair Trading after an overseas telemarketing company impersonating his businesses contacted private individuals .  Orion Insurance Services received a complaint from an individual that the company had called him . The unknown telemarketer called from a blocked number , pretending to be Orion , and hung up as soon as the recipient said he is on the Australian Communications and Media Authority Do Not Call Register .  Robert Fleming , managing director of Orion Insurance Services , told Insurance Business Orion does not engage with telemarketers and only works with businesses . He has made a complaint to the Office of Fair Trading , which passed it on to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission , which is now investigating it . Meanwhile , Fleming has posted warnings on social media about the imposters .  He said the brokerage does not deal with telemarketers or private individuals . He spoke of his frustration that the intellectual property rights of his name have been used to further question is how long has this been going on . I do n't know if it 's a one-off or has been going for a while . I 've only had one phone call so maybe it 's a one-off and wo n't be repeated .  " It 's a little bit concerning . It sounds like it was an overseas company as the number is blocked and they hung up as soon as he said he is on the do-not-call register . I do n't think my business partners and clients will get such a call .  " The person that was targeted was a private individual . The people I deal with know I only deal with business insurance and I deal with particular subsets -- professional indemnity and liability , which would not require me to call them . "  My elderly mother-in-law received two unsolicited calls from a telemarketer in the last few days saying they represent Orion Insurance . The first time they called she stated that she was on a Do Not Call ( DNC ) Register but they went on to again even after her advise .  Karyn Lensonon 27/08/2014 11:55:27 AM  I have had 2 calls this week from " Orion Insurance " about funeral insurance . It 's a private number and sounds like it 's overseas . They ask for Mrs Lenson and hang up if I mention the do not call register .  Robert Flemingon 3/10/2014 12:25:26 PM  I am the owner of Orion Insurance . As I made reference too in the piece above , this is not me , I have not authorised any telemarketers . They have stolen my company name . I have tried to pursue it further with NSW Fair Trading but have come up against a brick wall as I do n't have any information on the company who are making the calls .  I am sorry for anyone 's inconvenience , but please know that Orion Insurance do not use telemarketers .  Philip Cumpstonon 1/04/2015 12:31:54 PM  Repeated calls from scammers over the last two weeks . Is there any way to trace these calls and find the group involved ? The latest was @ @ @ @