OPINION: Koala trees replace valuable habitat
http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/koala-trees-replace-valuable-habitat/2363938/

OPINION : Koala trees replace valuable habitat  In the past 12 months alone council has purchased 400ha of environmentally significant land for $5.7 million , including sites at Mt Ninderry , Cambroon , Ilkley and the Doonan Creek Environment Reserve at Verrierdale .  There was a really good example of that principle last week when koalas at Sunshine Coast Council 's Doonan Creek Environmental Reserve were given a helping hand .  The federally funded Bruce Hwy project connecting Frizzo Rd with Sippy Creek Rd at Palmview will be a much-valued economic and community asset .  But there will be an environmental cost as the road works are in an area mapped as a koala habitat .  To offset that cost the State Government is paying for suitable trees to be planted at the Doonan Creek site - five for every one cut down in Palmview .  Funds of $970,000 will provide koala habitat on 9.3ha of the 252ha environmental reserve , including planting and maintenance over the next five years .  Council purchased the reserve with environment levy funds in important wetland areas left in the region .  In the past 12 months alone council has purchased 400ha of environmentally significant land for $5.7 million , including sites at Mt Ninderry , Cambroon , Ilkley and the Doonan Creek Environment Reserve at Verrierdale .  These sites when combined create a corridor of conservation that is emblematic of council 's desire to preserve and protect our natural heritage for future generations . The equation does n't have to be environment or economy or community - you can have all three . In fact , that 's the only way we can become the most sustainable region in Australia .  Also this week I 'd like to mention Sustainable Partnerships Australia , which was formerly known as the Sunshine Coast Youth Partnership in Maroochydore .  At a time when youth unemployment is a concern to many , this organisation is doing an outstanding job as a leading provider of education , career and transition projects to young people .