Gigabyte GB-BXi5G-760 review
http://apcmag.com/gigabyte-gb-bxi5g-760-review.htm/

gigabyte gb-bxi5g-760 review  the gradually emerging category of mini pcs -- inspired largely by intel 's nucs -- have been gaining popularity since they first landed a couple of years back . however we 've yet to see any that can tackle a real desktop when it comes to performance -- particularly when it comes to gaming .  the new nvidia- and intel-powered gigabyte gb-bxi5g-760 seems to offer the promise of lounge room pc gaming in a box that 's not much bigger than a cereal bowl ( about 13 x 12 x 6cm ) . it 's about a quarter the size of the microsoft xbox one and sony playstation 4 consoles , but is more graphically powerful that either , with a desktop-grade geforce gtx 760 graphics card physically reconfigured and squeezed inside the brix 's tiny chassis .  what you 're getting with the gigabyte gb-bxi5g-760 is actually a mix of laptop and desktop parts -- leaning rather more in the direction of the former than the latter . in fact , that gtx 760 is really the only desktop part a core i5-4200u ) , the byo ram sticks must be laptop sodimms and for storage you can insert either an msata or 2.5-inch ssd or hard drive .  that gives it more than enough chops for any sort of general-purpose computing you can throw at it , and with an ssd installed for our testing ( a 240gb seagate ssd 600 ) it booted up in five seconds flat and was lightning fast navigating around the desktop and launching and using productivity and entertainment programs . you could easily use this as a capable little media box to re-encode you movie collection on the fly and stream it to your tablets and phones .  pocket rocket  so what about gaming ? the answer there is a little more complex and largely boils down to that core i5-4200u chip . this is a part usually found in ultrabooks -- it 's a low-power , dual-core cpu that offers ok performance and does n't put out much heat . it 's a far cry from what a desktop chip -- or event a grunt quad-core mobile cpu -- is prove to be a bottleneck games .  compared to a gtx 760 in a desktop rig , the performance was universally lower -- and particularly in the more cpu-bound metro : last light and tomb raider tests . at 1080p with medium details , the gigabyte ga-bxi5g-760 limped along in metro at a decidedly unplayable 18 fps ; its desktop counterpart managed 72fps . so while many games are playable at 1080p and maintain a good 60+ fps rate , there are titles that can bring this box to its knees .  it 's also worth noting that doing any prolonged gaming will kick the unit 's system fan up into high gear . there 's already a constant low level of fan noise that comes from the gigabyte gb-bxi5g-760 even when just idling at the desktop , which ramps up quite considerably when games get intensive . the top surface can likewise become quite hot to the touch .  gigabyte does certainly deserve some kudos for managing to squeeze a mid-range desktop graphics card into a box this petit -- this is an interesting experiment that does is ok , with higher-end intel gpu-powered nucs selling for around $650 to $700 . yet we ca n't help but feel that this would 've been a much more well-rounded package if it had been given a faster , quad-core cpu -- even if it was a laptop chip .  verdict : holds up well in many games , but an imbalance between gpu and cpu throws things off .  rating : 3.5 stars out of 5  i like the concept but the choice of cpu is just silly . it would get sluggish pretty quickly for general computing and every stutter and pause looks much worse on a big panel in a lounge room . i 've got a laptop with a last-generation i7 that only cost $900 and it will power any game well . they do n't need crazy power , just decent power . this unit with a decent cpu and the right price and i 'd be interested as a lounge box that i can throw in a bag for mobile gaming . i 've got an oculus rift and a suitably rig for the rift .