Debt recovery lawyer warns of foreign investor unit risks
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-11-13/debt-recovery-lawyer-warns-of-foreign-unit-investor-risks/5889094

A leading debt recovery lawyer has urged caution about buying into apartment buildings where most owners are overseas residents .  Roger Mendelson has 37 years ' experience as a debt collector , and runs one of Australia 's largest debt collection agencies , Prushka .  He has some firm advice for people thinking of buying in an apartment complex , either for investment or as an owner-occupier .  " If the mix of investors is high , whether they 're overseas or not , like over 50 per cent , then that should ring alarm bells , " Mr Mendelson told ABC News Online .  " If there 's a significant percentage of overseas owners , basically do n't touch it , I think that the risk element is just far too high . "  Real estate analysts generally urge caution about buying in areas or buildings dominated by investors as they are more likely to sell en masse , lowering property values in that area .  However , Mr Mendelson 's warning on foreign investors goes further , based on pay their strata or owners ' corporation fees for the building 's upkeep .  " The owners corporations could well run out of cash , and then you can see a scenario emerging where they ca n't maintain the building to the standards required , " he explained .  " That could start a real slippery slide of other owners bailing out and a larger number of the units being on the market and prices then tumbling . "  Mr Mendelson said that , in his decades of experience , it is very hard to collect debts from people resident overseas .  " The most logical step to take if the debt has accrued to over $5,000 is bankruptcy , but you can only proceed with bankruptcy if you can personally serve the owner , and if the owner is overseas this may well prove impossible to do , " he observed .  Mr Mendelson said the risk of foreign buyers not keeping up payments is real , especially in areas where apartment values may already be falling , potentially leaving investors who have borrowed money the bank than the property is worth .  Such investors have no incentive to keep up any of their payments on the property as the bank already effectively holds all the equity in it .  In these circumstances , Mr Mendelson warned that Australia 's property market may function more like the United States , where owners who can not keep up with repayments simply hand back the keys .  This could result in a much greater risk of loss for any banks that do lend to foreign residents to buy real estate , as it is often more expensive to chase the debts overseas than to just take the loss after selling the property .  " It 's a torturous process for the banks , I think normally they would n't bother , I would expect banks to just absorb the loss and move on , " he said .