Major concern expressed at lack of direction on methyl bromide ...
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-11-13/major-concern-expressed-at-the-phasing-out-of-methyl-bromide/5888842

editor 's note : this story has been updated to give greater context to the comments by dr ian porter .  an expert has expressed concerns that australia has failed to develop sustainable alternatives to one of agriculture 's most widely used chemicals .  doctor ian porter , co-chair of the united nations methyl bromide technical options committee says it 's unlikely the fumigants that are being used to replace the now phased out methyl bromide will still be available in the next five to ten years .  under the montreal protocol , the ozone depleting pesticide , methyl bromide , was listed for phase out in all soil and commodity uses in developed countries by 2005 and developing countries by 2015 , except for ' critical uses ' which now has only been granted to the strawberry runner industry in australia and a few other uses internationally .  methyl bromide is still allowed for use in quarantine and pre-shipment , but this situation may change in the future .  presenting at the australasian soilborne disease symposium in hobart , dr porter international effort to fund and develop viable alternatives to the fumigant .  " the alternatives that have been picked up worldwide are quite often other alternative fumigants . due to restrictions on use and bans in the rest of the world , especially in europe , these fumigants are unlikely to be available in the near future .  so the world is now challenged to find more sustainable alternatives , " dr porter said .  he describes the scenario as quite dire .  " there 's a lack of acknowledgement that the chemical fumigants brought in to replace methyl bromide have their own issues .  there is a desperate need by intensively cropped horticultural industries who rely on fumigation to control soilborne disease to recognize the problems and to provide funding for the development of alternatives which lead to sustainable solutions for agriculture " , he said .  " we have the skills and the tools to get there , we just have n't put the teams together and the funders have not provided the funding to see that same strategic direction that the world levels could not be expected to be maintained once methyl bromide has been phased out .  " methyl bromide gave you the absolute yields and productivity within industries , " he said .  " it 's a nonsense to think we can get there with these other products because they are bio-diverse systems . when you get in a bio-diverse system everything has to give , everything has to compromise .  " so productivity is one of them . however if everyone is working to a new agenda then market forces change the profitability of the commodities , then you end up making as much money over time .  " in the short term there 's a bit of a fighting game , but then it all equilibrates out . "  dr porter recommended a collaborative approach to finding alternatives , and suggested looking to the european model of research and development .  " australia is in a really dire situation with its networking of research and development , " he said .  " you do n't see that as much overseas . we  a return to simpler farming techniques may be one way of controlling disease .  dr porter says the practice of crop rotation and the use of bio-fumigants as used in broadacre and the grains industries need to be used more widely in horticulture .  " 100 years ago we used crop rotations to control disease , " dr porter said .  " we 've forgotten about that in certain industries . "  dr porter said although the absence of methyl bromide was tough for growers to deal with , regulation of the fumigant had already benefited the environment .  " thirty per cent of the present recovery of the ozone layer is due to the regulations and phase out of methyl bromide and this is one of the most important examples of how mankind can solve an environmental problem of such magnitude " .  " in fact , it is the first example within the agricultural industries internationally which benefit the ozone layer , climate and human health through future reductions in uvb , skin cancers and cataracts.