Black modernism, racism and the making of popular British culture in ...
http://theconversation.com/black-modernism-racism-and-the-making-of-popular-british-culture-in-the-inter-war-years-33435

in 1919 , ivy mackusick , an art student at ucl 's slade school of fine art , completed a portrait of a man in his shirtsleeves . we know nothing about the man of african descent depicted in this portrait . it was painted during the inaugural year of the harlem renaissance , which was also a year of violent race riots in the united states and britain . the evocative painting makes it hard not to speculate about the thoughts passing through the man 's mind as he sat for the slade students .  had he lost a child or other family members in the recent great war ? perhaps he was a dockworker and had experienced the extreme racial violence on the streets of east london during 1919 . or one of the many students of african and asian heritage at university college . perhaps he was linked to the presence of american performers in london 's west end ? either way , he may have joined the audiences at those theatres to see the popular african american performer florence mills .  it would be surprising if he had n't . mills was then the star of blackbirds , a series of musical and dance numbers interspersed with comedy sketches that , following a successful run in paris , enthralled audiences at the london pavilion on piccadilly circus . for a time blackbirds mania took hold of popular british cultural life .  the show turned mills into a celebrity . her recipe for a new orleans christmas loaf was included in a compilation of yuletide recipes from famous stars in the nottingham evening post . she combined this celebrity lifestyle with a commitment to anti-racist politics and ordinary people . she took part in special performances for wounded servicemen , charity performances for the hackney children 's hospital and north london jewish schools . she became an inspiration to black londoners .  jacob epstein , the little negress , 1928 . tate  but things were n't always so . born in washington dc in january 1895 , mills was considered one of the leading performers of the harlem renaissance -- and was one of the few african american vaudeville performers britain for the first time in 1923 , the news that an all-black cast was going to be performing in london outraged the actors ' and musicians unions , which complained to the london county council .  the compromise the authorities settled on reflects well the hardening and officially endorsed racial prejudice of the colour bar in inter-war britain . mills and her african-american colleagues did perform , but unions successfully insisted that an all-white british cast performed in the first half of the show . mills and the rest of the cast were only allowed in the second half . this ruling did n't quite have the desired effect , as most reviewers preferred the performance of mills and her company . the energy and talents of the american cast upstaging their fellow british performers .  harlem in london  a decade later , celebrities like mills were n't quite so few and far between . in march 1936 rudolph dunbar wrote his essay on the influence of black america on london . he reported on the presence of black performers , students and actors and the world experience a slice of " harlem in london " .  but this " harlem in london " scene was romanticised for many . for the jamaican born activist claude mckay , whose despairing response to the race riots in 1919 was poured into his poem if we must die , the inequalities of imperialism , racism and class struggle remained insurmountable hurdles for a black man in early ' 20s britain .  barbara ker-seymer and burra wrote about trips to blackbird shows in their letters to each other , as did many ordinary fans . among them , a " madame davis " , who wrote to mills in 1926 from her home in holborn . in her letter , davis shared her pride at having seen a black woman on stage singing like a nightingale and proving that black women , like her , were able to perform as well , indeed better , than their white peers . mills was among london 's first celebrities to challenge racism .  these fan letters , although brief , speak to a number of broader themes explored in tate hardening of racism and " the colour line " in britain between the wars are explored , along with the importance of the arts , particularly popular culture , in the formation of black identities and challenges to racism . what is also made abundantly clear is the important role of black cultural expression in the making of british popular culture in its broadest sense in the 1920s and 1930s.