Madiba's 'brother' dies
http://www.iol.co.za/news/special-features/nelson-mandela/madiba-s-brother-dies-1.1339477

" ... ( He ) passed away this morning , " spokesman Sello Hatang said in a statement .  " Trustees and staff send our deepest condolences to his family and friends . "  Sitsheketshe 's mother and Mandela 's mother were sisters .  Sitsheketshe 's mother died at childbirth and he grew up with Mandela in the same household . He is commonly referred to as Nelson Mandela 's brother .  Sitsheketshe , who is reportedly 80 , recalled his childhood with Mandela in Qunu , in the Eastern Cape , in Anna Trapido 's book " Hunger for Freedom : The Story of Food in the life of Nelson Mandela " .  " We boys had everything we needed from the cattle and fields , " he was quoted as saying .  " I was younger than him ( Mandela ) so ( he ) used to send me out to collect the cattle and then he used to milk the cattle himself , and also take corn and grind it with a stone and we would eat it The ANCYL is deeply saddened by the loss in a family that holds substantial wisdom and history of the ANC , and has made such a vast contribution to the landscape of struggle and political freedom , " it said in a statement .  " Tata Morris Mandela has held the fort for the family in Qunu , especially during the difficult times of Madiba 's ill health among other family matters , of which he has remained central . " - Sapa  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines