DStv highlights - July 11, 2012
http://www.iol.co.za/tonight/tv-radio/dstv-highlights-july-11-2012-1.1338748

DStv highlights - July 11 , 2012  World 's Weirdest Warfare proves that to the freaks go the spoils . From one oddball battle royal to the next , we investigate the atypical tactics of predators and prey struggling to dominate and survive . Meet sneaky bees that carry out a stealthy hive takeover . Watch giraffes try to KO each other with their dense skulls . And come face to face with the nasty jaws of the notorious Tasmanian devil . It 's going to be a bumpy and strange ride . This episode features animals from Costa Rica , Botswana , French Polynesia , the Congo , SA , Brazil , Alaska and Kenya .  l Music of Chance , M-Net Stars , 19.30  Two young men lose a game of poker to two eccentric multimillionaire senior citizens . In debt and utterly penniless , they contract themselves to build a massive stone wall .  l Mad Fashion , Vuzu , 20.00  Chris March and his design team accept the challenge to create a look for the Queen of NY , Susanne will be emceeing the Patricia Field Valentine 's Ball , the premiere event for NYC Fashion Week . Susanne always pushes the boundaries of fashion , and knows what she wants , so Chris will need to create a look that will impress the NYC fashion elite and please one of his toughest clients .  l iNkaba , Mzansi Magic , 20.30  When Aunt Lizzie finds out what Goodman has been doing to Pascal , she jumps into action . Mkhuseli is not ready for a divorce and wants Nomsa to find another way to deal with her anger . Bra shakes feels he 's losing Thuli .  Comment Guidelines  Has a comment offended you ? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . Click triangle ( ) and select " Flag as inappropriate " . Our moderators will take action if need be .  Verified email addresses : All users on Independent Media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . You have full access to commenting on articles . For more information please read our comment guidelines