Mmemezi resigns following McDonald's painting fiasco
http://mg.co.za/article/2012-07-11-gauteng-municipalities-owed-r26-billion

in a statement on wednesday , he apologised for personal purchases made on a government credit card .  " after consultation with my organisation , through the anc integrity committee and the provincial office bearers , i have decided that the most honourable thing to do under these circumstances is to step down from the executive council as the mec provincial minister , " he said .  mmemezi was also linked to an accident involving west rand teenager thomas ferreira , who was hit by an official gauteng government vehicle in november 2011 .  municipal meltdown wide financial issues than unauthorised or inappropriate personal spending are plaguing the province , however . it was reported on wednesday that gauteng municipalities were owed more than r26-billion with households owing 70% of the debt , businesses 23% and government 2% .  democratic alliance local government spokesperson fred nel told the star : " debt owed to municipalities in gauteng rose by r4.26-billion ( 19.2% ) in the last financial year , between march 31 2011 and march 31 2012 . "  with the debt problem since debt that old was not usually recoverable .  the information was sourced from gauteng provincial gazettes , he said .  the city of johannesburg was owed more than r11.2-billion by the end of the last financial quarter , compared to r8.4-billion last year .  the ekurhuleni metro was owed r8.1-billion , up from r7.2-billion ; the city of tshwane r3.6-billion from r3.2-billion , emfuleni r2.3-billion from r1.9-billion , and mogale city r612-million .  merafong was owed r490-million last year . there were no figures for this year , according to the newspaper .  the sedibeng district municipality was owed the least , r652 000 , down from r1.7-million last year .  nel said the democratic alliance wanted the south africa revenue service to look at linking municipal arrears with income tax returns since this would be cheaper than debt collection , the star reported .  gauteng local housing minister humphrey mememzi told the provincial legislature in may his department and the provincial treasury were implementing a debt strategy to ensure departments paid their municipal rates and services . -- sapa