Menace of cyber bullies
http://www.iol.co.za/capeargus/menace-of-cyber-bullies-1.1273529

Menace of cyber bullies  April 11 2012 at 11:45am  The ever-increasing trend of cyberbullying almost ended in the death of a Durban teenager who tried to commit suicide after her name was put on a so-called " sluts list " that went viral on Facebook and BlackBerry Messenger .  She found her name was on the list last month , and tried to overdose by drinking a cocktail of household detergents and petrol . The girl recovered in hospital and was discharged four days later .  This is yet another example of cyberbullying in schools .  In January a 15-year-old Gauteng schoolgirl was harassed by four fellow pupils .  It is alleged they mocked her , called her fat and threw diet pills at her . They then went on to Facebook and BlackBerry 's BBM chat service , making a series of threats and nasty comments .  And if that was not enough , they allegedly hit her over the head with a glass bottle . The assault was filmed by another pupil , allegedly at the attacker 's back at school a week later .  The mother of the victim , who may not be named , filed a complaint of assault with the police . She said she was angry because the school had not told her the alleged attacker would be back at school .  She said her daughter had been friends with the group , but they had drifted apart -- and that 's when the cyberbullying began .  In the Durban incident , the list was started earlier this year by an anonymous person who , using the BBM service , gave the names and details of 10 teenage girls from Wentworth .  As the list went viral and was passed from one user to the next , more names were added to it .  " They need to go to their nearest police station where they must open a case of crimen injuria . We have not received any reports , but if we do we will investigate , " he said .  Commenting on the Gauteng incident , Izabella Little-Gates , an internationally published author and parenting that is escalating and should be taken seriously .  " It has to be addressed , and parents must discuss it with their children . "  In the weeks following the incident , psychologists and experts said cyberbullying was under-reported and the country would see more cases as access to technology increased .  A study on cyber aggression was carried out among young people in four provinces by the Centre for Justice and Crime Prevention in 2009 .  The research found that just under half the 1 726 youngsters interviewed had been victims of cyber aggression .  One in three had been a victim of cyber aggression at school and 42 percent had experienced it outside school .  In the survey , a quarter of the youngsters said they had experienced bullying by SMS .  One in five admitted to having bullied someone else by SMS .  According to the survey findings , nearly 70 percent of those who had bullied others by SMS had themselves been bullied .  In order of frequency , voice calls , SMSes , instant messages , used in the bullying .  The problem of bullying , whether cyber or conventional , has attracted the attention of one of the world 's entertainment stars .  Pop diva Lady Gaga recently took her star power and some of her famous friends , including Oprah Winfrey , to Harvard University in the US to launch a foundation aimed at empowering young people and stamping out bullying .  " If you have revolutionary potential , you must make the world a better place and use it , " Gaga said as she launched the " Born this Way Foundation " , named after her 2011 hit album and single . " This is about transformative change in culture . "  The singer has often been a voice for people she believes lack representation in the media , and she formed the foundation to address issues like self-confidence , well-being , bullying and the need for mentoring .  " I believe that humankind , as a whole , can change the world , " said Gaga .  " The goal is to challenge meanness and cruelty their communities . "  Winfrey said she had joined forces with Gaga 's foundation because it shared some of her core beliefs , including the need to show kindness , compassion and care for others .  Gaga said the three pillars of her foundation were to promote " safety , skills and opportunities " for young people .  " Once you feel safe in your environment and you acquire the skills to be a loving , accepting , tolerant person , the opportunities are endless to be a functioning human in society . "  Gaga 's foundation is expected to include specific outreach to young lesbians and gays .  Born This Way quickly became an unofficial anthem for gay empowerment and pride .  The singer said that releasing the song had helped propel the dialogue between her and her fans , which had became a calling of sorts .  " After I put the song out , the conversation ignited even further ... I never wanted this conversation to end . I thought how I could keep it going . And if anyone knows me . "  Gaga has also put her " Born Brave Bus " on the road , as a kind of drop-in centre for young people .  " The more kids that I can get to come and eat hamburgers and talk outside my shows , ( the better ) . I feel that it will start small , but over time will be very big . "  She knew there was " no one answer " or single law that could be passed to stop bullying and hatred or to mandate acceptance , Gaga said .  " I wish there was because , you know , I would be chained naked to a fence to try to get one passed . " -- Staff Reporters and Reuters