Brands that have stood the test of time
http://www.bizcommunity.com/Article/196/82/73611.html

brands that have stood the test of time  what do coca-cola , cadbury , levi strauss &amp; co. , volkswagen , kfc , marlboro cigarettes and mrs balls chutney all have in common ? they all have lived through at least one world war , the rise and fall of communism , the ' flower power ' 60 's , the first man on the moon , bad hair of the 1980s and not to forget the most recent financial crisis .  none of these brands is an absolute physical necessity , yet these brands have always been a part of our lives - and do n't seem to be going anywhere .  if you take time to consider some of the great brands that have always been around , they pretty much still look the same , taste the same and feel the same . for example , in the 1920s , marlboro the world 's largest selling cigarette brand , initially targeted female smokers with their ' mild as may ' tagline and feminine focussed advertising . in the 1950s they changed but since then , very little has changed to the marlboro brand . that 's over 60 years with still the same cowboy ' marlboro man ' , product and packaging . 60 years of success without much radical change is rather astounding .  the great brands that have been around for many generations have all stuck to their brand values and personality . they 've been consistent , while adapting and refreshing themselves as consumers and market conditions have changed - but all have done so without comprising their core brand essence . take coca-cola for instance - from 1886 to 2005 the famous beverage brand has had 168 different taglines , yet their brand positioning has remained fairly consistent .  as the saying goes : " if it ai n't broke , do n't fix it " . coca-cola learnt this the hard way when introducing ' new coke ' in 1985 , a reformulation of the product with a campaign slogan of ' the new taste of coca-cola ' . new coke attracted great consumer backlash and subsequently led to the re-introduction of the original , learn from the good , old favourites like coca-cola , marlboro and the others i have mentioned ?  firstly , ruthless consistency over time pays . cadbury has always stuck with their signature purple ; and consistently market their ' glass and a half ' of milk in each chocolate . similarly , volkswagen has constantly focussed on people . kfc has the ever present colonel sanders and special ' 11 herbs and spices ' recipe consistently applied to the marketing campaigns . consistency is critical to ingrain your position and message to customers . when a company , product or service is unpredictable or confusing , the reputation of a brand becomes questionable and simply can not build momentum .  next , rather refresh than radically change : people fall in love with a particular brand for a specific reason - whether it is what the brand stands for , its personality , its product or service offering or the message it sends out . like a person , if any of these characteristics change fundamentally , the brand can lose its integrity and subsequently its fans . jeans-wear brand with a brand essence that has remained fairly consistent over the decades . yet , when levi 's discovered that a large proportion of women were unsatisfied with how jeans fitted ( or rather did n't fit ) their all-important derri ? re , they quickly responded with the levi 's eva range that was designed especially for ladies with a few more curves . they did this without compromising their classic heritage or completely overhauling their product range . a refresh from time to time is essential to stay abreast of market trends and to avoid complacency . in 1991 , kentucky fried chicken refreshed their branding and name to kfc taking into account that people were opting for healthier methods of cooking and therefore chose to focus less on the ' fried ' in their name .  finally , do n't underestimate the power of your product ( or service ) in building and maintaining a strong brand . no brand will last over time if the product and the value associated with it , is not up to scratch . the strength of mrs balls competitor , locally or from aboard can even try replicate or improve the taste and flavour of this south african favourite . the reliability of the product is solid and thus , the power of the brand is undeniable .  though many of the famous brands may not be necessities or items that guarantee our physical well-being ; they still are cherished and loved throughout the world . through careful brand management these great brands have made us smile , satisfied our cravings , brought people together and most importantly , have been dependable . they 've been around before most of us were born and will most likely be around for many years still to come - they 've truly been brands that have stood the test of time .  legal disclaimer : this message board accepts no liability of legal consequences that arise from the message boards ( e.g. defamation , slander , or other such crimes ) . all posted messages are the sole property of their respective authors . the maintainer does retain the right to remove any message posts for whatever reasons . people nor in any other way depict a company , entity , individual(s) , or service in a false light ; should they do so , the legal consequences are theirs alone . bizcommunity.com will disclose authors ' ip addresses to authorities if compelled to do so by a court of law .