Latecomer pupils locked out of school
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/kwazulu-natal/latecomer-pupils-locked-out-of-school-1.1273659

latecomer pupils locked out of school  inlsalocked out : pupils of orient islamic school gather outside the schools gates after they were denied access for arriving late . picture : sbonelo ngcobo  the new school term started badly for some pupils at durban 's orient islamic school on tuesday -- they were locked out for arriving minutes after the bell had sounded .  their parents were left fuming after they were forced to return to the centenary road school to pick up their children , but school authorities defended the move , saying parents had been warned of the new lockout policy .  fathima padia said she and her daughter had arrived at the school at 7.33am -- three minutes after the bell summoning the children to their classrooms had sounded .  " when i got home i received a call from my daughter telling me to pick her up , " she said .  they usually left home at 7.10am to be at school by 7.20am , she said , but on tuesday they left five minutes late , " a set of traffic lights we had to pass through was n't working " .  padia said that when she arrived at the school , she found that about 50 children were clustered at the entrance . the children were not being allowed inside the premises and were standing around , not knowing what to do , she said .  instructions  the children waited about 90 minutes before the school 's security received instructions to let the children in -- but only long enough to contact their parents so they could be sent home .  " the school has a ' no cellphones ' policy but , thankfully , my daughter had her phone with her , " padia said .  " if she had n't , i do n't know how she would have contacted me . "  she claimed there was no adult supervision at the school gates and she had feared for the safety of the pupils , some of whom were as young as 14 .  when the daily news arrived at the school on tuesday morning , padia was  one pupil said people walking past had been asking them for cigarettes and trying to engage in conversation .  " we do n't feel safe , " she said .  javed aswani , whose sister is a pupil at the school , said that while he agreed with the school 's policy of sending latecomers home , he wanted the school at least to keep them somewhere safe while they waited for their parents .  " my sister is in grade 8 and she had to wait outside for more than an hour , " he said . " she is the responsibility of the school when she 's at school . what if something happened ? what if she was kidnapped or robbed ? "  in june last year , in a circular issued by the kwazulu-natal department of education , officials noted " with great concern " the number of pupils coming to school late .  the circular instructed principals to close the gates after classes or assembly had started and to record the names of latecomers and phone their parents .  be locked out or turned away from school .  high priority  orient islamic school principal ebrahim ansur said yesterday that the school placed a high priority on the inculcation of discipline in pupils .  " having observed an increase in the incidence of latecoming during the first term , the school notified parents at the end of the term that , as from april 10 this year , a lockout policy would be implemented for all latecomers , " he said .  " parents were reminded about this policy via sms on monday , april 9 . "  ansur said about 30 pupils were locked out for arriving after 7.30am , with several taken back home by their parents .  those pupils who were left by their parents , he said , were at the school gates , which were manned by the school 's security personnel , whose task it was to ensure the safety of the pupils .  " these learners were subsequently allowed into the school premises . the school contacted the parents of these learners to fetch their children from greatly encouraged by the excellent co-operation we have received from our parents and learners , as evidenced by the fact that out of a school population of 1 200 learners , there were comparatively few latecomers , " ansur said . - daily news  comment guidelines  has a comment offended you ? hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side . click triangle ( ) and select " flag as inappropriate " . our moderators will take action if need be .  verified email addresses : all users on independent media news sites are now required to have a verified email address before being allowed to comment on articles . you are only required to verify your email address once to have full access to commenting on articles . for more information please read our comment guidelines