Why Suicide Squad's Margot Robbie is the actress leading men ...
http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/suicide-squads-margot-robbie-actress-8486539

From Margot , few would expect any less . This is , beyond doubt , her year . The Australian beauty plays baseball bat-wielding Harley Quinn in the DC Comics movie , which sees the bad guys -- including Leto 's Joker -- grudgingly band together to save the world .  She 's proved so popular from the trailer alone that her character has already been given her own stand-alone follow-up film .  What 's more , she 's also single-handedly reinvented Jane , in the new movie The Legend of Tarzan , transforming her from a damsel in distress into a feisty 21st-century hero .  And she stole the show with her 30-second cameo in Oscar-nominated The Big Short , explaining the financial meltdown while taking a bubble bath . Then there was that very naughty scene in Martin Scorsese 's The Wolf of Wall Street .  A scene-stealing moment in The Big Short  There 's a certain magic about her , which Tarzan 's legendary late producer Jerry Weintraub tried to sum up , saying : " When I think -- Audrey Hepburn . "  Despite being loved-up with boyfriend of three years , British assistant director Tom Ackerley , 26 , Margot has been dubbed by some as the new Angelina Jolie -- the screen siren who leaves her co-stars ' partners fearing they could end up second best .  With Alexander Skarsgard in Tarzan  Alexander Skarsgard , who enjoyed a sizzling on-screen chemistry with Margot while playing the title role in Tarzan , could not stop gushing about her at the premiere earlier this month .  " What makes Margot so beautiful is not only that she 's a stunningly gorgeous woman , but that she is not vain .  " He is all for Margot getting attention as it 's him she comes home to and sleeps with at night . The only problem is Margot 's friendliness can sometimes be misconstrued as flirting and leading guys on .  " Cast and crew have often developed infatuations with her . She 's the life and soul of any film set and all eyes are drawn to her . "  Margot 's But Margot still does n't realise quite how alluring she is . During the filming of hustler drama Focus , professional pickpocket Apollo Robbins was hired to teach Margot the tricks of the trade . And that meant using her sex appeal as a distraction .  Apollo said : " Margot is beautiful , but she does n't seem to recognise the way she looks . "  " I said , ' When this guy comes in what is he going to be looking at on you ? ' She had to learn they would be checking out her ass . She had never really exploited that before .  " She just thinks of herself as just an everyday girl who grew up on a farm with her parents , " he says of the actress , who grew up with three siblings in rural Queensland . At age 16 she starred in a local independent movie , and soon ended up on Neighbours , playing Donna Freedman between 2008 and 2011 .  A steamy scene with Leo in The Wolf of Wall Street  Her breakthrough Jordan Belfort in Scorsese 's 2013 masterpiece .  But despite stripping off for the role , she was n't a natural when it came to the raunchy scenes .  " I had n't done a proper sex scene before , " she said . " Tons of people are watching you . It 's so awkward . "  Margot has always resisted the lure of Tinseltown , opting instead for a low-key existence with Tom in Shepherd 's Bush , West London .  " While most people are used to seeing her glammed up on the red carpet she actually loves to chill out make-up free in tracksuit bottoms and flip- flops , " a friend says .