'Serious' interest in buying into Kelty land art
http://www.dunfermlinepress.com/news/14650367.__39_Serious__39__interest_in_buying_into_Kelty_land_art/

Services  ' Serious ' interest in buying into Kelty land art  It was described as " one of the most exciting public art projects Scotland has ever seen " and was set to transform an ugly hole in the ground next to the M90 at Kelty .  The multi-million pound restoration plans for the St Ninians opencast coal mine centred on turning the area into a major tourist attraction which would bring visitors and money into the village .  World renowned American architect Charles Jencks designed the Fife Earth Project and work started but it was left unfinished when Scottish Coal went bust in 2013 .  Three years on and there 's a shaft of light at the end of the tunnel with reports of " two serious inquiries " from potential investors .  Lochs councillor Alex Campbell said : " Anything that 's for the betterment of the area , such as jobs or a new leisure and recreation use , has to be positive .  " They 've spoken about several ideas for that area , an M&amp;D factories , it 's all been mentioned but there 's never been anything concrete .  " They 've seemingly been talking to investors but we 'll have to see what happens . If there 's any form of investment or employment I would be more than willing to support it subject to the correct infrastructure and everything being in place . "  Hargreaves stepped in to finish the excavation of coal and restoration of the site but the land art was not completed as originally intended .  Cllr Campbell added : " Right now people use it for walking and cycling but there is some doubt about what will happen , given the land art was never completed after Scottish Coal went bust .  " I do have some safety concerns about the pond , I 'm worried about kids getting in there , so it would be good for that issue to be sorted too . "  " The council has an ongoing dialogue with the company and we 're keen to maximise the economic development potential of the various sites they own in the a masterplan setting out their aspirations for the site , it will be subject to normal planning processes , and public consultation . "  No-one from Hargreaves was available to comment .  Speaking to the Press in 2014 , Mr Jencks had said : " One can only hope the whole project will be revived . Never say never . "  He added : " The facts are that our project was inexpensive , saved the company much money in restoration , celebrated Scotland history and diaspora and would have been completed except that many coal companies went to the wall , including the one who asked me to do this restoration . "  Plans for the 665-acre park were announced in 2009 and included four different-shaped landscape mounds -- one conical , one triangular , one rectangular and one horn-shaped -- which represented the continents Scotland had influenced in history and the 40 million people of Scots descent overseas .  The site was to feature more than six miles of walkways , a large open water body with dramatic cliffs and a Scotland-shaped loch , the future economy of Kelty and the surrounding area .  Ipsoregulated  This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standardards Organisations 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a compaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here