York CC captain Woods hails strength in depth ahead of Hull game
http://www.yorkpress.co.uk/sport/14650346.York_CC_captain_Woods_hails_strength_in_depth_ahead_of_Hull_game/

York CC captain Woods hails strength in depth ahead of Hull game  The men from Clifton Park visit Hull tomorrow buoyed by a double success last weekend .  Victory over Castleford last Saturday closed the gap on Hunters ECB Yorkshire Premier League North leaders Harrogate - whose ten match winning run was ended by Driffield Town - to seven points .  Less than 24 hours later , York had reached the final of the Black Sheep Yorkshire Champions Trophy courtesy of victory over Yorkshire Academy .  Woods said : " We were pleased with the result against Castleford and happy with the way we played - but we were even more pleased with our win over Yorkshire Academy .  " We had a lot of important players missing but those who stood in showed that we have a really strong second team and people are ready to step up if needed . "  All-rounder Liam McKendry grabbed the headlines - hitting 87 off 97 balls - but Woods also singled out wicket-keeper Finlay Bean who made an impressive first team debut .  Woods says the game is not only an opportunity to keep pressure on Harrogate but also a chance to make amends for an under-par performance when Hull won by four wickets on May 14 .  " We are looking forward to it . They beat us when we played at Clifton Park so we will be especially up for it , " he recalled . " We did n't have a great day and they played well so we know we need to be on it . "  Hull 's team includes Indian slow left arm bowler Shivil Kaushik , 21 , who plays for Gujarat Lions in the Indian Premier League .  " Last week was a good week for us . We ca n't control what Harrogate do , we are just thinking about what we need to do . "  Ipsoregulated  This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor you can contact IPSO here