Sailing with the Airbnb of yachts: The coolest new family holiday trend
http://travel.aol.co.uk/2016/08/04/sailing-holidays-antlos-airbnb-of-yachts-2016-new-family-holiday-trend/

sailing with the airbnb of yachts : the coolest new family holiday trend  families can enjoy affordable sailing holidays with a difference thanks to antlos  sailing holidays were made for water-loving families and provide the ultimate adventures , access to beautiful destinations and unforgettable experiences your children will cherish for years to come .  to ensure you have an authentic sailing experience , a new company has brought yacht holidays with a twist to tourists who wish to indulge in the luxury of sailing the med on a family holiday but without the price tag .  antlos , dubbed the airbnb of yachts , enables you to book a sailing holiday directly from the boat owner , putting you in direct contact with a skipper to customise your holiday and create an itinerary that suits you .  what 's more , the skipper will be your host on the holiday , so you can sit back and enjoy an unforgettable time at sea . whether you 're a seasoned sailor or have never been on a yacht before , antlos provides you this summer .  as many of the skippers with yachts listed on the platform offer a variety of activities for parents and children to enjoy on board , you can do anything from learn the ropes of sailing to have fun with water sports , including water skiing , kayaking and stand-up paddle boarding . some skippers even host yoga classes , take guests out to try underwater fishing and have bicycles on board for when you arrive at a destination .  indulging in the local culture is a must on an airbnb-style sailing holiday , which gives you plenty of flexibility to live the local experience as your skipper guides you to charming port towns along the way . you can hop off the boat and wander through the pedestrian paths , witness the unique cultures and feast on local delicacies , including delicious seafood .  sailing also affords you the ability to discover superb destinations from a new perspective , with the beauty of visiting numerous places , many only accessible by boat . it allows you to go on an adventure and explore hidden coves the mediterranean is the most popular destination for british travellers opting for a sailing holiday . some of the best-loved and most picturesque spots include croatia , greece and italy . there are many fantastic national parks in the mediterranean , one of the most famous being kornati . on a croatia yacht charter , you wo n't want to miss stopping here and going on a hike to see the beautiful wildlife of the islands . meanwhile , venice , ibiza and the amalfi coast are wonderful destinations to visit by boat .  by cutting charter agencies out of the equation , you and your family can avoid paying the high fees and take advantage of all-inclusive holidays from as little as ? 41 per person per day , including the boat , skipper , food , fuel and marina fees . those who are not interested in renting an entire boat for their family can book private cabins and share a yacht with others , enabling them to meet new people . the possibilities are endless !