Woman "gobsmacked" to find missing dog of family involved in A34 ...
http://www.banburycake.co.uk/news/banbury/14680769.Woman__quot_gobsmacked_quot__to_find_missing_dog_of_family_involved_in_A34_crash/

rachel brenton from drayton tracked down labrador honey who fled after crash at east ilsley  a woman who helped reunite a dog involved in an a34 car crash with its family , said she was " gobsmacked " to find her in a field .  rachel brenton , from drayton , near abingdon , was moved to search on thursday for the canine -- a labrador called honey -- after seeing on facebook that it was missing .  it had been in one of the cars involved in the eight-vehicle crash at east ilsley on wednesday , which killed tracy houghton ( pictured below ) , her sons ethan , 13 , and josh , 11 , and her partner 's 11-year-old daughter amiee goldsmith .  the private banking manager called the police for help in catching honey because she feared the dog may run on to the nearby a34 .  officers eventually got hold of her and took her to a local vet , before she was due to be reunited with her family .  miss brenton , who is added : " i know how much comfort dogs can be in people 's lives and i thought at least if i could find honey that would be something . i was gobsmacked when i did . "  twelve others were injured in the crash on wednesday .  police arrested and bailed a 30-year-old man from andover on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving .  promoted stories  comments  i get paid over ? 80 per hour working from home with 2 kids at house . i never thought i would be able to do it but my best friend earns over ? 9185 a month doing this and she convinced me to try . the potential with this is endless . heres what i 've been doing , ...... www.review80.comepap143  i get paid over ? 80 per hour working from home with 2 kids at house . i never thought i would be able to do it but my best friend earns over ? 9185 a month doing this and she convinced me to try . the potential with this is endless .  score : 0  tinsel84 1:35pm sat 13 aug 16  poor dog , i 'm so happy she has been reunited with her family . i hope she is going to be ok travelling in cars in future so she can once again enjoy trips with her family .  poor dog , i 'm so happy she has been reunited with her family . i hope she is going to be ok travelling in cars in future so she can once again enjoy trips with her family.tinsel84  poor dog , i 'm so happy she has been reunited with her family . i hope she is going to be ok travelling in cars in future so she can once again enjoy trips with her family .  score : 2  bicesterbod 4:31pm sat 13 aug 16  well done , let 's hope that they find some comfort in being reunited with this member of their family .  well done , let 's hope that they find some comfort in being reunited with this member of their family.bicesterbod  well done , let 's hope that of their family .  score : 1  gardenlover 7:28pm sat 13 aug 16  what a lovely lady to spend time looking for honey and how wonderful that she found her . a small measure of hope and happiness in a devastating tragedy .  what a lovely lady to spend time looking for honey and how wonderful that she found her . a small measure of hope and happiness in a devastating tragedy.gardenlover  what a lovely lady to spend time looking for honey and how wonderful that she found her . a small measure of hope and happiness in a devastating tragedy .  score : 2  freckletone 8:12pm sat 13 aug 16  i saw this post on facebook of someone looking for the dog- so glad she was fine ! how lovely . the whole thing was such an awful tragedy and nothing can change that but lovely that the dog reunited with her owners , well done  i saw this post on facebook of someone looking for the dog- so glad she was fine ! how lovely . the whole thing was lovely that the dog reunited with her owners , well donefreckletone  i saw this post on facebook of someone looking for the dog- so glad she was fine ! how lovely . the whole thing was such an awful tragedy and nothing can change that but lovely that the dog reunited with her owners , well done  score : 1  rj 9:25pm sat 13 aug 16  lovely thing to do . well done , miss brenton .  lovely thing to do . well done , miss brenton.rj  lovely thing to do . well done , miss brenton .  score : 0  keith alex 11:08pm sat 13 aug 16  massive ' well done ' to somebody who has hopefully brought joy out of sorrow . a wonderful gesture at a difficult time . good to know that there are still good people out there who care .  massive ' well done ' to somebody who has hopefully brought joy out of sorrow . a wonderful gesture at a difficult time . good to know that there are still good people out there somebody who has hopefully brought joy out of sorrow . a wonderful gesture at a difficult time . good to know that there are still good people out there who care .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here