Glasgow actress Juliet Cadzow going back to island roots to ...
http://www.eveningtimes.co.uk/news/14680757.Glasgow_actress_Juliet_Cadzow_going_back_to_island_roots_to_fundraise_in_memory_of_late_husband/

juliet cadzow going back to island roots to fundraise in memory of late husband  glasgow actress juliet cadzow is going back to her roots to fundraise in memory of her late husband .  the west end-based tv star , best known to generations of children as bus driver edie mccredie from balamory , has already raised ? 13,500 for mnd scotland , which helps sufferers of motor neurone disease .  her husband , actor , writer and theatre producer david maclennan , died after being diagnosed with mnd , a rapidly progressing terminal illness that stops signals from the brain reaching the muscles , resulting in the loss of ability to walk , eat , speak and breathe unaided .  juliet is travelling to the small island of luing , off the west coast , near oban , to help celebrate the 50th anniversary of the luing cattle breed , which was established by her family in 1966 .  the luing cattle society will be hosting the anniversary open day on friday , with a one-of-a-kind raffle in aid of mnd scotland stock judging .  david , the creator of west end venue oran mor 's a play , a pie and a pint series of lunchtime dramas and one of the founding members of the 7:84 and wildcat theatre companies , was diagnosed with mnd in january 2013 , when he became aware of cramping in his leg and jaw .  sadly , he lost his battle with the disease in june 2014 , when he was just 65 years old . since then , juliet has been an avid fundraiser for mnd scotland .  she said : " i spent much of my childhood on the island of luing and it is a very special part of my life . david and i were married there , in 1988 , and he quickly adopted it as a second home .  " my father , shane cadzow , and his two brothers , denis and ralph , bought part of the island in 1947 and set about establishing a breeding herd that would produce cattle .  " this became an official breed when it was passed through i will do a reading of a piece david wrote 10 years ago about the cattle breed and the cadzow brothers . "  she added : " i am delighted to be going along to the event to support the luing cattle society and also to raise money for an amazing charity , mnd scotland .  " over the past two years , audiences at the pantomimes and plays i have performed in have been so generous , and now the farming community has got behind this worthy cause . "  there are more than 450 people in scotland living with mnd and about 160 new cases are diagnosed each year .  mnd scotland is the only charity in scotland providing care and information for people affected by mnd as well as funding for research .  iain mcwhirter , head of fundraising and volunteering at mnd scotland , explains : " we are delighted the cadzow family has chosen to support mnd scotland and all the funds raised from the raffle will go towards helping us continue to provide support to people affected by the illness for mnd scotland already and we can not thank her enough for her continued support .  " i 'd also like to extend my gratitude to the luing cattle society for supporting us . "  promoted stories  comments  commenting &amp; moderation  we moderate all comments on evening times on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis . if you 're a relatively new user then your comments will be reviewed before publication and if we know you well and trust you then your comments will be subject to moderation only if other users or the moderators believe you 've broken the rules  our colleagues  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here