Splash of colour to tackle dog fouling menace
https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/news/local/fife/269429/splash-of-colour-to-tackle-dog-fouling-menace/

share this :  councillor bill brown and local resident gordon mitchell are concerned about the amount of dog mess and litter in kinglassie .  a fife village is warning pet owners to brush up or face being shamed as part of a new project to tackle dog mess .  members of kinglassie community council are proposing to spray dog poo with fluorescent paint in a bid to embarrass owners that fail to clean up after their animals .  the problem has become intolerable for some residents , with the community council to meet next week to discuss its plans .  if adopted , it is hoped that the technicolour approach may be enough to convince some dog walkers to change their ways , although sheena mcgowan , secretary of the community council , said that it appeared to be a small minority that failed to clean up after their pets .  " it is a big problem here , especially coming out of winter time , " she said .  " i know that 95% of dog owners are alright responsible .  " we 're having a meeting next week and we will be discussing the idea then .  " it seems to have worked down in england and has cut down rates by about 75% . "  if adopted , fluorescent paint would be sprayed on any dog mess found on kinglassie 's streets and in its play parks .  instead of removing the poo , the measure is designed to highlight the extent of the problem , whilst embarrassing those responsible for not picking up after their pets .  the idea has already been adopted in one village in aberdeenshire and several more in england , though this is believed to be the first time it will have been adopted in fife .  " we really need to do something to tackle it , " said local councillor bill brown .  " i 'm strongly in favour of this approach as there is nothing worse than getting dog mess on your shoes or on the wheels of a baby 's buggy .  " it seems to have worked in other towns the matter .  " hopefully it can change some people 's behaviour and encourage them to take responsibility for their pets . "