Lucy Turnbull pleads ignorance of WestConnex heritage house ...
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2016/aug/16/lucy-turnbull-pleads-ignorance-of-westconnex-heritage-house-destruction

lucy turnbull has said she is unaware of the destruction of heritage properties in the sydney suburb of haberfield in a radio interview defending the controversial westconnex project in sydney .  the federal shadow infrastructure and cities minister , anthony albanese , said the comments were " beyond belief " and questioned what turnbull had been doing as greater sydney commission chief commissioner .  on @702sydney it is beyond belief that lucy turnbull in charge of sydney planning is " unaware " of any haberfield homes being demolished  albanese told guardian australia : " given lucy turnbull 's statement that she is completely unaware of the impact of the westconnex project on haberfield , one wonders what she has been doing as chair of the greater sydney commission . "  the state mp for summer hill , jo haylen , said it was astounding the head of the planning body had " no idea what is going on in haberfield " .  " anyone who has driven along parramatta road lately will know that we 've lost swathes of heritage homes in heritage in australia , " she said .  " turnbull 's comments are a slap in the face to the hundreds of families and residents dealing with unfair compulsory acquisitions and the devastating impacts of the demolition . "  the new south wales government westconnex haberfield fact sheet acknowledges that some heritage items are impacted by the project , and says that those " directly impacted " will be photographed .  westconnex is due to open to traffic in 2019 . the m4 east section is due to extend the existing m4 motorway from homebush to haberfield .  a greater sydney commission spokeswoman told guardian australia it was established in january to lead metropolitan planning for greater sydney but the westconnex project " was designed and approved prior to the establishment of the commission " .  " the greater sydney commission understands there are aspects of westconnex which have met with a lot of community concern .  " however , the commission was not involved in any issues consequential to stage one or stage two of the project , including compulsory acquisition of houses and @ @ @ @ @