London pre-open: Stocks seen weaker ahead of data
http://www.digitallook.com/news/market-report-pre-open/london-pre-open-stocks-seen-weaker-ahead-of-data--1669020.html

london pre-open : stocks seen weaker ahead of data  london stocks were set for a weaker open on tuesday despite a solid session on wall street , as investors braced for a slew of key data releases .  the ftse 100 was expected to open 16 points lower than monday 's close at 6,925 .  michael hewson , chief market analyst at cmc markets , said : " this week is set to be an important indicator as to the effect any post brexit shock has had on the uk economy . it 's probably too early that the latest inflation numbers for july will offer any clues with respect to any upward pressure in prices on a month on month basis as a result of the sharp decline in the value of the pound ; however we could see it show up in some of the import prices data .  " as regards july cpi , this is expected to remain at 0.5% , unchanged from june , though we could see some upward pressure on the monthly number as a result to increase slightly to 1.7% from 1.6% . core prices are expected to stay unchanged at 1.4% . "  on the data front , 0930 bst will be busy , with the release of the uk consumer price index , retail price index and producer price index . in the us , housing starts and cpi are at 1330 bst and industrial production is at 1415 bst .  " a 24.7% reduction in operating costs offset the decline in the copper price and lower sales volumes resulting in ebitda of $571.6m , 2.3% higher than in the same period last year , " said chief executive iv ? n arriagada .  astrazeneca has completed a licensing agreement with leo pharma , a specialist in dermatology care , for the global licence to monoclonal antibody tralokinumab in skin diseases .  upon completion of the agreement , leo pharma made a payment to astrazeneca of $115m for the exclusive , global rights to tralokinumab in atopic dermatitis and any future additional dermatology indications .  tralokinumab is an il-13 monoclonal antibody that has completed a phase iib trial for skin disease resulting in itchy , red , swollen and cracked skin .  international infrastructure group balfour beatty announced on tuesday that it has been awarded a $697m contract to undertake electrification of the 52-mile caltrain rail corridor between san francisco and san jose , in preparation for the future operation of high speed trains .  the ftse 250 firm said it is the largest contract secured by balfour beatty in the united states .  the electrification of the line is being undertaken to bring cleaner , high performance electric vehicles to caltrain 's fleet , balfour beatty said , allowing for a more frequent service .  distribution and aviation company john menzies reported a rise in half-year profits due to falling sterling , while new chairman dermot smurfit , who was appointed in july , said he would assess whether the aviation and distribution divisions needed to be split in two , if they are " best placed to prosper while they are part of one group " .  commodities were generally higher as the greenback lost ground despite supportive comments from fed officials on dumped its stake in barrick gold and that chinese trading volumes had plummeted .  shares in british engineering groups spectris and halma dragged the electronic &amp; electrical equipment sector lower after analysts at hsbc downgraded their stance on both in the wake-up of the recent run-up in their stock price .  prime minister theresa may is to travel to china in september in order to strengthen trade ties and steady relations with beijing after trepidation from westminster regarding china 's involvement in the hinkley point nuclear power project .  european stocks edged lower on tuesday as investors digested a weaker-than-expected reading on german economic sentiment , with miners bucking the trend following well-received results from bhp billiton and antofagasta.