Tea is one of our greatest pleasures - it needs no innovation
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/08/16/tea-is-one-of-our-greatest-pleasures---it-needs-no-innovation/

tea is one of our greatest pleasures - it needs no innovation  " let 's have a cup of tea " is the " once upon a time ... " of adult british lifecredit : dominic lipinski/pa  as a nation , we drink 165 million cups of tea a day . we use it to hydrate our happiest and saddest times , fuel us through work and enable us in procrastination , ease broken hearts and hangovers , forge new friendships and cement old ones .  " let 's have a cup of tea " is the " once upon a time ... " of adult british life , a phrase that is at once soothing and full of promise . we take tea very seriously indeed .  we are promised " satisfying new tea formats " enriched with vitamins and designed to cure everything from hangovers to hair loss . the new tea totalitarians forecast we will be taking our daily cuppa in the form of jelly , tablets , and even spray .  let me read the leaves here .  the essential appeal of tea is the life-affirming , faffing-about ritual of making it  in the 1970s , scientists promised us food would be replaced by pills . manufacturers went big on conveyor-belt convenience stuff served on airline-style trays .  none of the washing up , but none of the pleasure either - or by now we 'd all be eating smash , instead of craving proper mash whipped full of butter as soon as the thermometer dips below 25 ? c.  as a nation , we drink 165 million cups of tea a daycredit : -/alamy  the essential appeal of tea is the life-affirming , faffing-about ritual of making it . it provides an excuse to get up from our desks , avoid awkward moments or flee difficult ones , or to do something thoughtful when saying the right thoughtful thing is beyond us .  whether your ritual involves swirling hot water in granny 's favourite tea pot to warm it before adding special order lapsang leaves , or dunking a bag in your special mug , it 's highly unlikely that a quick same way .  how to make the perfect cup of tea play ! 01:35  as for the drink itself : just as those who queue daily for syruped-up cups of **28;1273;toolong do n't , in their hearts , really like coffee , so these " teas " are aimed at those who do n't really care for -- and probably do n't deserve -- a proper cuppa .  perhaps the new model of tea will catch on , in smart " wellness " emporia , where intense young men and women hand over money they probably should have spent on therapy for blister packs of antioxidant oolong . personally , i think the tea bag was quite innovation enough .  i received a press release recently for green teas in strawberry cupcake and lemon pie flavours , presumably for those who are keen on the astringent , cleansing properties of green tea but would rather eat cake . i wo n't shame the manufacturer here , but would encourage them to go back to the blending room and think about what they 've done .  arthur important . suddenly he realized what it was . ' is there any tea on this spaceship ? ' he asked.douglas adams , the hitchhiker 's guide to the galaxy  the truth is , teas of all kinds - black , white , green and oolong - are rich in antioxidants just as they are . if you 're keen on a change , i advise stripping away rather than adding on .  infusions , or tisanes if we 're being smart , are an excellent choice partly because they combine two of the great british pastimes : gardening and thrift .  simply pinch off a few leaves of verbena , lemon balm or mint as you waft around the garden ( yours or someone else 's , they 'll hardly notice ) , bung them into a cup , pour over boiling water and you 're done : reviving , refreshing , and guaranteed to reach the parts other flavour formats can not reach .