Gamescom 2016: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare Zombies mode ...
http://www.express.co.uk/entertainment/gaming/700729/Gamescom-2016-Call-of-Duty-Infinite-Warfare-Zombies-mode-REVEALED-EPIC-trailer

call of duty countdown hits zero , as infinity ward treats fans to a first look at the zombies in spaceland mode in infinite warfare at gamescom 2016 .  update : activision has released the official trailer for call of duty : infinite warfare 's zombies in spaceland mode .  the hd trailer urges fans to " prepare for the roller coaster thrill-ride of your life through the gnarly amusement park of zombies in spaceland .  " play as one of four classic 1980s archetypes in a radical , action-packed journey with an all-new ' 80s setting and a most excellent soundtrack from the era . "  " call of duty and zombies in particular has such an incredible history with passionate fans , which inspired us to take all the co-op action that has made the series so great and fuse it with one of our favourite decades in pop culture : the ' 80s , " project director brian bright explained .  " zombies in spaceland is an all-new zombies experience where day-glow meets fright nights .  " it deep layer of progression , brimming with easter eggs and various game features that will be a blast for hardcore zombies fans . we ca n't wait for fans to go hands-on this fall . "  the zombies in spaceland mode tells the story of four aspiring actors who show up at a mysterious movie theatre for an audition . it goes horribly wrong when they 're transported into a movie to fight the undead .  the voice cast includes paul reubens , seth green , ike barinholtz , jay pharoah and sasheer zamata . david hasselhoff will also appear in the game as a mysterious dj in the theme park .  you can watch the trailer for call of duty : infinite warfare 's zombies in spaceland below :  after a week of teasers and countdown timers , the first infinite warfare zombies mode trailer has finally made its world premiere , albeit with grainy footage captured on an old tv .  the call of duty twitter page had previously posted a shot of a bog box with a timer counting down to zero , the first footage of a vhs containing the world premiere .  with the countdown complete , the epic zombies trailer has gone live for the world to see , and despite the low quality , it does n't disappoint .  the new zombies campaign will seemingly be called zombies in spaceland . the 80s inspired footage contains breakdancing zombies , clowns and more , as a once famed film director takes it back to the 1980s with his goriest work yet .  it 's the first time the call of duty : black ops zombies mode has appeared in an infinity ward call of duty release , having traditionally been part of the black ops franchise .  call of duty : infinite warfare makes its xbox one , ps4 and pc debut on november 4 . it launches alongside a remastered version of modern warfare , which is only available by purchasing the infinite warfare : legacy edition .  ps4 users can actually get the modern warfare remastered early by pre-purchasing the infinite warfare legacy edition from the playstation store .  the move not to too well with some fans , who bombarded the youtube announcement trailer with dislikes .