Hundreds of jobs at risk at Pizza Factory
http://www.insidermedia.com/insider/midlands/hundreds-of-jobs-at-risk-at-pizza-factory

search for an event  publications  latest issue  we speak to liz peace of curzon urban regeneration company on the ambitious plans to revamp birmingham . there 's also our export 100 , charting the region 's top exporters , and industry veteran kevin oakes outlines his plans to double the size of royal crown derby . plus challenger banks , chesterfield , kickstarting property development and much more .  latest issue  in this special edition of the magazine we take a look at some of the women making waves in north west business . there 's an interview with arthouse md anita kenyon , plus the exclusive women 100 , charting the region 's most successful businesswomen . in addition there 's our tech 100 , examining the region 's top digital businesses , and we look at what brexit will mean for the north west . plus rochdale focus , deals review , challenger banks and more .  latest issue  we hear the views of the south west business community in the wake of the historic vote to leave tom carter and helen thomas of westons cider , and reveal the growth 100 , charting the region 's fastest-growing businesses . plus growth guide , food &amp; drink focus , north somerset report , tackling the skills shortage and more .  latest issue  paul ragan , chief executive of veezu , unveils his plans to create a ? 100m leader in the uk taxi sector . the august/september edition also features our deals and dealmakers special report , people guide , legal sector review , and an interview with gordon miller of high noon stores .  latest issue  our vibrant yorkshire edition celebrates innovation , enterprise and entrepreneurialism . we reveal our top 500 yorkshire businesses and have features on brexit , selling a company and business parks . there is also full coverage of made in the uk 2016 , a profile of christeyns and our survey of the issues businesses face .  hundreds of jobs at risk at pizza factory  hundreds of jobs are at risk at a nottingham pizza maker owned by food giant 2 sisters following the loss of a in nottingham and supplies ready-made , chilled pizzas to a number of supermarkets chains across the uk .  workers ' union unite said about 350 jobs are now at risk following the termination of a contract by tesco .  unite regional officer andy shaw said the news is a " hammer blow " for the regional economy .  he added : " it is early days and details about the scale of the job losses remain unclear , as does a timeframe for any redundancies . we expect a full briefing when we meet the management tomorrow ( 19 august 2016 ) .  " unite is committed to avoiding compulsory job losses and we will be actively exploring avenues such as redeployment and voluntary redundancy .  " the union will be giving all possible support to our members in the days and weeks ahead at what is a very traumatic and difficult time for them . "