Family of dead patient criticise Manchester hospital over man's 90 ...
http://www.itv.com/news/granada/2016-08-18/family-of-dead-patient-criticise-manchester-hospital-over-mans-90-minute-wait/

Advertisement  The family of a patient who died after the ' gross failings ' of a Manchester A&amp;E unit have criticised the hospital trust involved .  A coroner ruled that Nicky Sullivan , 44 , from Harpurhey , had suffered from ' serious and significant failings ' after waiting 90 minutes at North Manchester General Hospital without being seen by medical staff , despite suffering hallucinations and suicidal thoughts .  Nicky Sullivan Credit : MEN Syndication  Later that day , he stopped in the middle of a road outside his mother 's apartment and was in an unavoidable collision with a car , causing serious head injuries . He died three weeks later at Salford Royal Hospital . Coroner Nigel Meadows , who noted the strains on the NHS , said he had ' no hesitation ' in saying there had been gross failings in Mr Sullivan 's care on November 10 , 2014 .  He will now write a ' prevention of future deaths report ' to be seen by all Greater Manchester trusts , the health secretary and the medical his sister Lisa Sullivan said : " We are pleased it 's been recognised there were serious failings by those who were supposed to be looking after Nicky . What is the point in offering a service when you do n't do it right ? "  " I think Nicky got to the point where he 'd been to A&amp;E , nobody had helped him and felt ' what 's the point any more ? but we know he did n't intend to take his own life . " The phrase ' lessons learned ' is used too much - it has to start to mean something . I 'm not sure whether we will ever have closure . " We miss Nicky every day . "  -- Lisa Sullivan  The Sullivan family Credit : MEN Syndication  Recording a narrative verdict , Mr Meadows said it was not a case of neglect as it was n't possible to prove he would definitely had survived had he been seen . He did not rule Mr Sullivan 's death had been suicide , as his motivation for stopping in The Pennine Acute Hospitals NHS Trust said : " This is a tragic case and our thoughts are with Mr Sullivan 's family . " We have identified that there was a missed opportunity to recognise Mr Sullivan as a vulnerable adult , triage him in a timely manner and formally invoke the escalation policy , and we offer our sincere apologies to Mr Sullivan 's family . " We have improved our escalation and missing person policies and additional training has also been provided to clerical and nursing staff in A&amp;E . Improved communications have also now been agreed between the Trust and Manchester Mental Health and Social Care NHS Trust . We are always seeking to improve standards . "  Declan Meehan , area manager for emergency staff at Manchester Mental Health and Social Care Trust , said there had been just one mental health nurse on duty that night but that staff levels had since been increased . He said the relationship between the mental health and emergency staff was good - and plans were in place to move the team from the cabin into the ward @