Angus set to dispose of more public loos
https://www.thecourier.co.uk/fp/news/local/angus-mearns/271107/angus-set-to-dispose-of-more-public-loos/

I am aware that councils have no legal obligation to provide Public Conveniences but surely they have a moral obligation to do so . Due to recent closure of yet another public loo in Brechin we are now left with two toilets to serve the whole of the community both of which are at the top of the town . The recent closure of Dalls Lane facility shows that absolutely no consideration was made for the residents of a nearby sheltered housing facility . The toilet is in between the sheltered housing and the Scotmid Store where most of the residents would do there shopping . These closures mean that an increasing number of older people are at risk of becoming isolated in their own homes . No consultation or consideration was carried out by Angus Council , the officer who proposed the closures was not aware that there is a sheltered housing complex in the area . An estimated 14 million people in the UK suffer with a bladder control problem and 6.5 million with a bowel control problem but obviously this was not considered either River Street with the flood prevention scheme with viewing points to see the river and the Inch play park is being upgraded but the public toilet was closed by Angus Council , they have spent millions on the flood prevention with beautiful mosaics but no where to spend a penny , in fact not only did Angus Council close the toilets they smashed up the inside . What happens now if anyone is in dire need , where will they go ? As with many other recent decisions made by Angus Council they have not been thought through nor have they carried out any public consultation . It may be time for the people of Brechin to ask whether the highly paid council officers are fit for purpose along with the current Council Administration . It is time for the people of Brechin to take a stand otherwise we will see many more unwelcome and ill thought out decisions being made .