Big Ben throws, Antonio Brown twerks and Steelers roll
http://www.espn.co.uk/blog/pittsburgh-steelers/post/_/id/20184/big-ben-throws-antonio-brown-twerks-and-the-steelers-look-like-contenders

big ben throws , antonio brown twerks and steelers roll  play  roethlisberger , brown and williams shine in steelers ' victory ( 1:31 )  jon gruden and sean mcdonough break down the contributions ben roethlisberger , antonio brown and deangelo williams made for the steelers in their victory over the redskins on monday night football . ( 1:31 )  what you need to know in the nfl  the steelers certainly look ready for the cincinnati bengals in what promises to be a bruising clash on sunday at heinz field .  think about it : the steelers were without several key offensive players on the road against a 2015 playoff team and still posted 437 offensive yards and five touchdowns . that included teardrop dimes of 29 and 25 yards from ben roethlisberger to brown , who mistreated cornerback bashaud breeland relentlessly .  curiously , brown did n't get the redskins ' best corner , josh norman , for much of the game . norman stayed on the left side of the field for quite a bit of the night . said the steelers " did n't care where norman was ' on the field because they do n't have control over that , a thought brown echoed when he said after the game : " trying to beat the man across from me . "  roethlisberger and brown have connected on 500 passes in their careers , and some things they run , particularly by the sideline , are difficult for any corner to cover .  through touchdowns and mistakes , the steelers will play fearlessly all year .  " we 're not afraid to take chances , " said quarterback ben roethlisberger about his offense , which converted two fourth-and-shots , one for a touchdown . " that 's just who we are . "  the steelers ' most important number from monday might be 143 : deangelo williams ' rushing yards total after a 26-carry , two-touchdown night . williams had everything working , including a backbreaking 15-yard touchdown run as he split two defenders like a point guard .  when games get tight , the steelers feel they can utilize a stout offensive first touchdown with a 73-yard , run-heavy drive . if the passing windows close because of cincinnati 's defense this week , williams could see 20-plus carries once again .  the steelers will be tested more than this . washington failed to stretch the field offensively , with desean jackson 's 33-yard reception the redskins ' only play of more than 20 yards all evening .  but pittsburgh played to its formula defensively , and it worked : give washington the short stuff , shade on tight end jordan reed and tighten up once close to the red zone . this will be a theme .  that the steelers failed to record a sack and still kept an above-average redskins offense to 16 points suggests this group has grown .  they could have had an off night and it would n't have mattered .  the steelers picked up where they left off in the 2015 regular season : with 30-plus points .  sponsored headlines  comments  about cookies  we use cookies to help make this website better , to improve our services and use of cookies and change your browser settings in order to avoid cookies by clicking here . otherwise , we 'll assume you are ok to continue .