FinnAust Mining PLC Commencement of Social Impact Assessment
http://www.directorstalkinterviews.com/finnaust-mining-plc-commencement-social-impact-assessment/412709937

FinnAust Mining PLC Commencement of Social Impact Assessment  FinnAust Mining plc ORD 0.01P ( LON:FAM ) the AIM and FSE listed company with projects in Greenland , Finland and Austria , is pleased to announce that the Greenland Mineral Licencing and Safety Authority has granted approval for a Social Impact Assessment programme ( the ' SIA ' ) as well as the associated Terms of Reference for its Pituffik Titanium Project in Greenland .  FinnAust is preparing an application for an exploitation licence at Pituffik to extract ilmenite , a primary source of titanium metal . As part of this application process FinnAust is required to submit a SIA and an Environmental Impact Assessment ( ' EIA ' ) , describing the potential impacts and planned mitigation measures for the Project 's construction , operation and closure . Having received approval for its EIA work programme in August 2016 the Company is delighted to receive the approval of its SIA work programme , marking another major milestone achievement in the Project 's permitting . As part of the application for an exploitation licence , FinnAust this study is well advanced with further details to be provided on this aspect in due course .  The SIA at Pituffik will aim to identify any potential social impacts the Project may have and ultimately seek to optimise positive impacts , such a job creation and investment into infrastructure , whilst mitigating negative impacts . With this in mind , the Company will inform and involve relevant and affected individuals and stake-holders , including residents living in towns , settlements and communities that may be directly or indirectly impacted , early in the development process and will develop a defined Benefit and Impact Plan which will be regularly reviewed and updated throughout the Project 's lifetime . The programme will be conducted in consultation with the Greenland Mineral Resources Authority ( ' MRA ' ) and will be managed by NIRAS Greenland A/S , an international , multidisciplinary consultancy company that was appointed by FinnAust earlier in the year for this purpose .  FinnAust Mining plc CEO Roderick McIllree said , " With on-the-ground exploration continuing to deliver encouraging results , further underpinning the Project 's commercial value objectives of delivering a maiden resource late this year and commencing a bulk sampling programme in 2017 . To facilitate this we are delighted with the consistent progress we are making from a licencing perspective . With our EIA work programme well underway , the approval of our SIA work programme is a significant achievement not only in terms of the Project 's development and our application process for an exploitation licence , but also for the region as a whole . The Qaanaaq district , where Pituffik is located , has one of the highest unemployment rates in Greenland , and as a result we are committed to ensuring our presence in the region positively benefits both the local and wider community . We look forward to continuing to work with the Greenlandic authorities to advance Pituffik for the benefit of all . "  Disclaimer  You understand and agree that no content published on the Site constitutes a recommendation that any particular security , portfolio of securities , transaction , or investment strategy is suitable or advisable for any specific person . You further understand that none of concerning the nature , potential , advisability , value or suitability of any particular stock , share , security , portfolio of securities , transaction , investment strategy , or other matter . We openly disclose that we and our contributors may have interests in investments and/or providers of services referred to within the website and that we receive remuneration from certain of the companies referred to on this website.