The MCCY retains Ogilvy &amp; Mather Singapore to help citizen's sense ...
http://www.thedrum.com/news/2016/09/14/the-mccy-retains-ogilvy-mather-singapore-help-citizens-sense-belonging

the mccy retains ogilvy &amp; mather singapore to help citizen 's sense of belonging  the ministry of culture , community and youth ( mccy ) in singapore have retained ogilvy &amp; mather as its agency of the record .  the new contract was announced following a competitive pitch which will see o&amp;m continue to build a ' cohesive and vibrant society ' in singapore and to deepen the sense and identity and belonging of the country 's citizens .  as a result of its appointment , o&amp;m will be tasked with conceptualizing and driving integrated digital communities until the end of august 2017 .  " we are happy to partner o&amp;m to continue inspiring the singapore spirit , and engaging our citizens in making singapore home . o&amp;m has demonstrated creative insights , digital expertise and a good understanding of our objectives , " said tangie kay , deputy director , of marketing communications , resilience division , mccy .  the mccy was established four years ago in order to engage citizens through the arts and sports , promoting volunteering and philanthropy , ogilvy &amp; mather singapore , added : " we are proud to be working with mccy to champion the values and beliefs that define and unite singapore as a nation . we embarked on this journey with mccy three years ago with the sg50 thematic campaigns as the creative agency of record , and look forward to fresh ways of connecting with singaporeans through engaging digital content and platforms . "  get the magazine app  the drum app brings you some of the world 's best marketing and media news , analysis and creative insights . already the uk and europe 's number one marketing platform , we are also now covering the usa and asia .  delivered every fortnight , the drum magazine distils the babble of marketing industry commentary and news into a single intelligible and intelligent package . and because of its size , it has the space to showcase creative at its best .