Show cost of Hinkley on bills, say power chiefs: Suppliers fear ...
http://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-3794297/Show-cost-Hinkley-bills-say-power-chiefs-Suppliers-fear-consumers-blame-price-rises-cover-30bn-nuclear-deal.html

show cost of hinkley on bills , say power chiefs : suppliers fear consumers will blame them for price rises to cover ? 30bn nuclear deal  energy firms want the ? 30 billion cost to consumers of the hinkley point c nuclear power station spelled out on every household electricity bill so they can not be blamed for rising prices .  rivals to france 's edf , one of the big six energy providers that dominate the uk retail power supply market and which will build hinkley point along with backing from china 's cgn , fear being pilloried by consumers when energy bills rise after electricity from the station comes on stream in the 2020s .  ' the worry for the industry is that as the cost of hinkley is added to consumers ' bills , customers will blame us when it is nothing to do with us and everything to do with the government backing hinkley at such huge cost , ' said one senior energy executive . ' so let 's put hinkley point c on the bill so we all concerns : paul massara said the last thing he wants to see is costlier bills . inset : how the plant will look  a competition &amp; markets authority report this year into the energy sector said there was a ' lack of effective communication ' over the impact of government policies and regulatory policies on domestic bills and said this must change as it had led to a ' lack of trust ' in the sector .  paul massara , the boss of renewable energy firm north star solar and the former chief executive of rwe npower , said : ' hinkley will add ? 12 to ? 45 to consumers ' annual bills , depending on who you believe . the energy industry is concerned because bills can go up when the government slaps taxes on , even when the wholesale price of energy goes down and we get the blame . '  the government has agreed a controversial minimum price guarantee or strike price of ? 92.50 per megawatt hour for 35 years , rising with inflation , for power generated by the plant , even under ? 39 per mwh .  consumers will pay the difference between the wholesale price of power and the strike price if the wholesale price is lower . the national audit office has said the cost to consumers would be ? 30 billion -- an extra ? 30 on the average annual bill over the next 35 years , or more than ? 1,000 per household .  related articles  share this article  share  the estimated cost to consumers has risen considerably since october 2013 , when the coalition government agreed the strike price . the increase to consumers ' bills was expected to be just over ? 6 billion . the higher difference is primarily because the collapse in the price of oil and gas has seen the cost of wholesale energy plummet .  ' remember when david cameron said " get rid of the green c**p " , when he wanted to cut energy bills after they became a serious political issue ? so the last thing we want to see is more costs put on bills , ' said massara .  energy of a range of taxes rolled up in energy bills . environmental and social costs -- which include the cost of home insulation and help with energy bills for vulnerable households -- make up nearly 13 per cent of the average bill , while vat adds another 4.76 per cent . the wholesale cost of electricity accounts for just 40 per cent of the average annual bill of about ? 1,200 for a family , with other costs including distribution making up the remainder .  energy firms can already itemise their bills , though few do , but spelling out the cost of hinkley point has not been suggested before . energy regulator ofgem said it would not force power companies to itemise bills . ' we insist suppliers tell customers what their cheapest tariff is on bills , but bills are already complicated enough , ' it said . the government said it had acted to keep the cost of subsidies down , ending subsidies for onshore wind power for instance .  suppliers also fear domestic customers will shoulder the full burden of the strike price alone , jeremy nicholson , director of the energy intensive users group , which represents firms including chemicals , ceramics and steel plants , said some industries are entitled to subsidies under european union rules and these could continue after britain exits the eu .  ' the government is therefore planning to exempt certain industries from most of the impact of the hinkley strike price on their electricity bills , ' he said . ' we do n't know yet whether the uk will remain constrained by eu state aid rules after brexit -- it is possible that the government may be free to offer 100 per cent compensation , should it be willing to do so , though this is likely to remain unclear for months and possibly years to come . '  edf 's hinkley point c will be the most expensive building ever made and the rest of the energy industry is determined that it will not be blamed when consumers start paying for it .  the government approved the project after a delay , prompted by security concerns over the chinese involvement . announcing last week had put new safeguards in place to give it greater control over future critical infrastructure projects with foreign investors .  ironically last week , former french economy and industry minister emmanuel macron , who until august was a member of the government that championed hinkley , warned that britain would find itself at the mercy of chinese economic interests if it left the eu . ' tomorrow you will have to deal on your own with the chinese , and good luck to you , ' he said .