Nicola Sturgeon 'has abandoned 2014 referendum lies to argue for ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/09/18/nicola-sturgeon-has-abandoned-2014-referendum-lies-to-argue-for/

Ruth Davidson has accused Nicola Sturgeon of abandoning the economic " tissue of lies " she tried to sell Scots in the 2014 referendum after the First Minister argued that national wealth is less important than being independent .  Speaking on the second anniversary of the historic vote to save the Union , the Scottish Conservative leader said " fantasy figures " on a separate Scotland 's wealth , oil revenues and deficit had formed an integral part of the SNP 's independence white paper .  But Ms Sturgeon used an article marking the anniversary to downplay their importance , instead arguing that the case for independence " transcends " all these factors and Brexit .  Ms Davidson said the SNP 's 2014 prospectus had been replaced with a " new mantra " that the economy does not matter and " people should just shut up about them and wrap themselves in a flag instead . "  Both senior Tories also highlighted a new opinion poll showing two-thirds of Scots oppose a second independence referendum being staged before Britain leaves the EU . out a snap referendum by stating its timing would depend on how the Brexit negotiations proceed . However , he insisted that a rerun remained " highly likely " if Scotland 's links to the EU are not protected .  Both nationalists and Unionists marked the second anniversary of the 2014 vote , with Alex Salmond among the speakers at a rally in Glasgow and the Tories setting up stalls on high streets across the country to call on the SNP to rule out another referendum .  " The case for full self-government ultimately transcends the issues of Brexit , of oil , of national wealth and balance sheets and of passing political fads and trends . "  She argued that Scotland being pulled out of the EU against the will of 62 per cent of Scots was " probably the most striking and significant instance ever " of the UK 's democratic deficit and " should be of concern to everyone . "  But Ms Davidson said : " The economic case for independence two years ago was a tissue of lies . Fantasy figures on which fell apart under scrutiny . Now everyone can see Nicola Sturgeon 's sums do n't add up , she 's decided to abandon them altogether .  " Instead of trying to explain what would happen to our economy and how we fund our public services under independence , the new mantra is that none of these things matter anymore and people should just shut up about them and wrap themselves in a flag instead . "  Speaking on the BBC 's Sunday Politics programme in Scotland , Mr Mundell said : " I think it 's quite clear now that the SNP position is independence at any cost . The pretence that we had two years ago that somehow independence would be economically beneficial , that it would lead to prosperity in Scotland has been abandoned . "  Ian Murray , Scottish Labour 's Westminster spokesman , said Ms Sturgeon appears to have " learned all the wrong lessons " from the Leave campaign during the EU referendum by dismissing the need for economic details . He added : " What we 're talking about are people their pocket . "  The SNP 's white paper on independence has been criticised over its oil revenue forecasts  Alex Salmond predicted on Friday that a second independence referendum would be staged in autumn 2018 but a Panelbase poll for the Sunday Times found only 33 per cent of Scots want a rerun before the Brexit negotiations have concluded .  It put support for independence at 48 per cent , three points higher than in the 2014 referendum but four points down on a similar poll conducted in the immediate aftermath of June 's Brexit vote .  This is also far below the level of support where Ms Sturgeon could be assured of victory , her previous litmus test for demanding a rerun , but Mr Salmond intensified his pressure on her to drop her cautious stance and press ahead anyway .  The former First Minister told Scotland on Sunday : " If I was willing to call an independence referendum in 2012 for 2014 on 27 per cent support , I 'm not certain that Nicola will be too concerned about starting off with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @