Community campaigner takes to the streets of Wokingham - dressed ...
http://www.bracknellnews.co.uk/news/14750241.Community_campaigner_takes_to_the_streets_of_Wokingham___dressed_as_a_giant_frog/

services  you 'd have been forgiven for doing a double take , but there really was a giant green frog driving around wokingham this weekend .  well-known community campaigner - and bracknell news columnist - colin antink , was virtually unrecognisable as he toured the town , decked head to toe as the crazy frog , on his mobility scooter .  despite thursday night 's heavy downpour wreaking havoc across the town and beyond , wokingham man colin was undetered , vowing to do as many laps of the town and villages further afield , to fundraise for the thames hospice .  his mobility scooter clad with bunting and balloons , colin embarked on a mammoth three-day trip round the town , all while playing the notoriously annoying crazy frog song .  he aimed to stay out each day for as long as his battery lasted , roughly around eight to nine hours , depending on the distance and speed at which he travelled .  speaking to the news outside wokingham town hall on friday morning , colin said : " playing the theme trying to get everybody 's attention to fundraise for the thames hospice .  " i have absolutely no idea why or how i settled on the idea of being a frog and then to actually get out here dressed as one but never mind !  " i just wish it was sunny but oh well !  " to be honest even as little as a pound makes a difference though i am trying to raise about ? 1,000 . "  all funds raised will go to the hospice , which cares for adults with life-limiting illnesses across east berkshire and south buckinghamshire .  colin , who suffers from stickler syndrome , a rare hereditary condition impacting eyesight , hearing and joints , had initially planned to travel from wokingham to weymouth on his scooter , but had to abandon the plans because of the scale of the project .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here