Lorry driver who failed to indicate when turning left convicted of ...
http://road.cc/content/news/206108-lorry-driver-who-failed-indicate-when-turning-left-convicted-killing-cyclist

louise wright , aged 29 , was killed when she was dragged under the wheels of a greene king delivery lorry driven by adam haywood , aged 31 , on lower parliament street on 3 july 2014 , reports the derby telegraph .  haywood , who pleaded not guilty , insisted he had checked his mirrors but could not recall having seen the cyclist nor whether he had indicated as he waited for the traffic lights to change , although he told the trial at derby crown court that " there is no reason " he would not have done so .  speaking about the collision , he said : " when i first turned it did n't feel right and i thought it might have fallen out of gear -- i felt a bit of a shunt .  " i checked my gearbox and realised it was n't that , so i thought i could have clipped the traffic light or the kerb or another car from the back end if it had kicked out .  " i heard some car horns mirrors and saw her under the back wheels .  " i jumped out of the cab and ran around to the back . i saw her and ran to get the phone and called an ambulance . i did n't know what else to do . "  after haywood was convicted by a majority verdict , judge jonathan bennett handed him an eight-month prison sentence suspended for two years , and banned him from driving for two years .  he also ordered haywood to pay ? 1,500 costs and to perform 150 hours of unpaid work .  the judge said : " you are going to live with this for years to come and others will live with it for even longer than that .  " you did not , that day , i accept , expect this to happen , you set off to do a day 's work , you were doing what you enjoyed doing , but you were careless that day . "  following the trial , miss wright 's mother , sharon brown , said : " i feel that want to see the driver sent to prison . when something as tragic as this happens , there are no winners . "  earlier , in a victim impact statement read out to the court , she described how her daughter had told her she was planning a family , and told the court she is " heartbroken " that will never happen .  miss wright 's partner james faulkner told the court that the couple had been together since they were both aged 14 .  " i have lost everything , my life has been completely reset and i have no idea how to start again without louise , " he said .  " she was unique , she was so very special . she was always there to support me physically and emotionally and now i go home to an empty house every night .  born in scotland , simon moved to london aged seven and now lives in the oxfordshire cotswolds with his miniature schnauzer , elodie . he fell in love with cycling one saturday morning in 1994 while living in italy daily cycle commuter in london back before riding to work started to boom , he 's been news editor at road.cc since 2009 . handily for work , he speaks french and italian . he does n't get to ride his colnago as often as he 'd like , and freely admits he 's much more adept at cooking than fettling with bikes .  you know what , i do n't care that he did n't go to prison . did he go out that morning intending to kill someone ? of course not , he 's not a psychopath , he 's just an idiot who made a mistake . putting him in prison just means that we all pay for his stupidity through our taxes . so let him walk " free " , but the penalty should hurt . what if 25% of his earnings for the next n years went to the family and friends of the deceased and to road safety education ?  you know what , i do n't care that he did n't go to prison . did he go out that he 's not a psychopath , he 's just an idiot who made a mistake . putting him in prison just means that we all pay for his stupidity through our taxes . so let him walk " free " , but the penalty should hurt . what if 25% of his earnings for the next n years went to the family and friends of the deceased and to road safety education ?  you know what , i do n't care that he did n't go to prison . did he go out that morning intending to kill someone ? of course not , he 's not a psychopath , he 's just an idiot who made a mistake . putting him in prison just means that we all pay for his stupidity through our taxes . so let him walk " free " , but the penalty should hurt . what if 25% of his earnings for the next n years went to the family and friends of the deceased and to road safety education ?  " did he go out that morning intending to kill someone ? to drive carefully enough to avoid killing someone ? probably not . except that we 'd have to feed him , i 'd hope he never works again.certainly not driving anything .  agree prison should be for where there was intent . an accident through negligence should cost time and money to the defendant . outside of prison they can earn to pay that .  if they cause death by accident they should be banned from driving for life . taxi 's and busses will benefit , and no other road user will ever suffer from their ignorance . they should also be taxed to support victim support , for the rest of their working life .  you should n't have an hgv license after the ban . start back at the beginning with a provisional . practice . do another car test . when you have demonstrated you can do that to a competent standard start thinking about other tests .  to be fair , from the report , he sounds much more remorsefull than we usually hear . stayed at the sceen , called ambulance is n't the best way to deal with this situation .  to be fair , from the report , he sounds much more remorsefull than we usually hear . stayed at the sceen , called ambulance , admitted guilt in court ... frankly , prision probbly is n't the best way to deal with this situation .  however the driving ban should be longer .  and if you break a driving ban - then it should be stright to prison .  remorsefull , lol , read again , he pleaded not guilty  i would n't be surprised to hear that he appeals the driving ban as a cruel and unsusal punishment .  you should n't have an hgv license after the ban . start back at the beginning with a provisional . practice . do another car test . when you have demonstrated you can do that to a competent standard start thinking about other tests .  i think bans are more appropriate , particularly if it involves a large vehicle , taxi or bus . allow them to retest for normal cars and retaking hgv license , or taxi license etc . also , any collision involving serious injury or death should be reported to insurance for 10 years instead of 5 .  you can class it as victim blaming but i seriously think as a cyclist you should anticipate and expect the worst , particularly when a vehicle emerges from a junction or ther is a left turn opportunity .  take the moral high ground if you want but your family wont thank you when they 're stood over your grave .  if you treat every motorist as a fcking retard and assume at all times they have n't seen you , you will be far safer . the amount of times i have avoided collisions ( funnily enough i avoided one today ) by assuming every car driver has nt seen me and is going to do the unthinkable is untrue .  sound advice , that i wholly agree with . although this is one of those classic left hooks with the added danger of no mirror checks or indication . it 's a bit like the dft sweet fa to do with the way you are riding , and everything to do with how the deathtrap about to randomly turn into you is operated .  so you are right , victim blaming indeed .  the real issue is the judicial " you did n't mean to " punishment . his driving fell far below any standards , and he should be without a license for alot longer , with checks on his driving carried out at all levels after his ban . it 's actually logical because he wo n't have been driving for quite a while during his ban , his standards may have slipped further .