Shale gas ban 'would cement decline of UK manufacturing'
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/sep/27/shale-gas-fracking-cement-decline-uk-manufacturing-ineos

The billionaire hoping to become Britain 's biggest fracker has said banning shale gas would cement the decline of UK manufacturing , as he brushed off environmental concerns about the hotly disputed energy source .  Asked about the impact fracking could have , Ratcliffe said : " I 'm from the north and there are parts of the north that are not happy places . " He added that some towns that once thrived on industries such as coal or steel were now " a bit grim " .  Labour government would ban fracking in UK  Read more  " The future for manufacturing in the UK will look quite gloomy if we do n't exploit shale , " he said . " I ca n't see otherwise what is going to arrest the decline in British manufacturing . "  As well as importing ethane from the US for use in the chemicals industry , Ineos has licences to frack in the UK covering 1m acres , double the size of the Yorkshire Dales national park .  Ratcliffe said the shale gas prices and created jobs but stoked fierce environmental protests -- could be replicated in Britain .  " There 's no reason shale ca n't do the same things to the UK manufacturing industry as it has done in America . It dragged them out of recession in 2008 on the back of the shale revolution . The UK is clearly sat on a lot of potential shale in the same way the US is . "  The JS Ineos Insight ship carrying the first shipment of shale gas from the United States as it passes the Forth bridge to dock at Grangemouth . Photograph : Andy Buchanan/AFP/Getty Images  He also brushed off environmental fears about fracking , a controversial technique that critics say needlessly prolongs fossil fuel use , risks polluting the water table and has been linked to earthquakes .  One of Ineos 's gas suppliers , Range Resources , was slapped with a $4m fine in the US for environmental breaches earlier this week .  Ratcliffe said : " Occasionally things happen despite our best efforts . We do have spills , we do and we spend time trying to minimise that .  " Life is a balance . You like your hot shower , you like your iPhone and you like to drive your motor car . That 's the balance . "  In an earlier interview with BBC Radio Scotland , Ratcliffe likened environmental accidents to getting a puncture in a tyre . Friends of the Earth responded angrily , saying the comparison was " cavalier " .  " You can fix a puncture in a matter of minutes , " said Friends of the Earth Scotland 's head of campaigns Mary Church . " It may never be possible to fix groundwater contamination from leaking fracking wells . "  Ratcliffe 's comments on shale came as Ineos 's Grangemouth plant prepared to take delivery of 27,500 cubic metres of ethane delivered by tanker from the US , the culmination of an investment that Ineos says has reached $2bn .  Labour 's pledge to ban fracking in the UK is ' madness ' , says GMB  Read more  The firm fought a bitter battle with trade to close unless it was converted into a shale gas import terminal .  Ratcliffe said Grangemouth , near Edinburgh , had been " on its knees " before Ineos decided to spend ? 450m on converting the plant to accept shale gas imports .  Ethane shipped from the US will replace waning North Sea supplies , allowing the plant to run profitably , a plan the company says will secure 10,000 jobs for at least 20 years . The company said the arrival of imports would render the plant profitable " overnight " , a few years after it was losing around ? 100m a year .  But the gas to be processed at Grangemouth is also part of a lengthy and extremely carbon-intensive journey .  Ethane is separated from gas fracked from the Marcellus shale formation in western Pennsylvania before being sent via a pipeline to the Marcellus Hook export terminal on the US east coast .  The tanker is the first of eight shipping ethane from US shale fields . Photograph : Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images  There it is cooled to -90C , across the Atlantic in " Dragon Class " tankers , burning high-emission shipping fuel , over about 10 days .  The company expects to take around one shipment a week once the transatlantic supply chain is up and running . It will convert the ethane into ethylene , which it can sell for use in a wide range of plastic products , such as plastic bags and food packaging .  The process has been made possible by America 's shale boom , which has yielded so much gas that the world 's largest economy has lifted its 40-year embargo on oil and gas exports .  The first delivery was moored off Orkney for several days while awaiting Ineos 's carefully stage-managed inauguration ceremony at Grangemouth .  Despite the choreographed nature of the event , Ineos was not able to unload the gas into its ethane tank , Europe 's largest , due to high winds .