Graziano Pelle thrown out of Italy squad for refusing to shake ...
http://www.eurosport.co.uk/football/world-cup/2014/pelle-thrown-out-of-italy-squad-for-refusing-to-shake-someone-s-hand_sto5895215/story.shtml

graziano pelle thrown out of italy squad for refusing to shake manager 's hand  by eurosport  16 hours ago  0  0  0  italy boss giampiero ventura has excluded graziano pelle from italy 's next match with macedonia after the striker refused his handshake when substituted .  the shandong luneng forward issued an apology on instagram , but it appears that this was too little , too late for his veteran coach .  after starting the world cup qualifying match with spain , pelle was substituted on 59 minutes , but will now miss the next game with macedonia on sunday .  pelle 's apology read as follows :  " oh yes ! unfortunately , i 've done a stupid thing again ? ? . it was unacceptable bit of behaviour , against the coach in the first place and also to my team-mates , who have always shown themselves to have important values ? ? within a great italy group in which we belong . "  " as with all serious errors , you have to take responsibility for the incident . it 's only right to submit my heartfelt apologies to everyone . "  ventura had initially appeared to play down the incident even before the former southampton player had apologised .  " pelle was angry , i think this was not so much because of the substitution as the way we had played up to that point , " he said after the game .  " it 's part of football , it 's something i 've seen many times in my career . but when you wear the italy shirt , you need to be careful . "  but he clearly did n't able to leave it at that , and the decision was made to axe the 31-year-old player from the squad .  the figc released a statement to the press , in which they confirmed the decision , and added that pelle would return to his parent club in china :  " the coach gian piero ventura , in agreement with the figc , has decided to exclude the player graziano pell ? from the squad 9 in skopje , for disrespectful behavior at the time of his substitution during the match yesterday with spain .  " to be part of the italy squad involves the sharing of values that are befitting of the national team , starting with showing respect towards the staff , teammates and fans . the player will return today to his parent club . "  our view  on first hearing this story , we thought it seemed unnecessarily harsh . it seems quite a punishment for what could have been an accidental or inadvertent .  but then we saw the video . this was pretty outrageous behaviour - and pelle 's statement admitted as much .  after all , how hard is it to do a handshake ? unless you play for manchester united , that is.