Queens of style
http://www.linlithgowgazette.co.uk/news/local-news/queens-of-style-1-4251728

queens of style  jemma liddle  by roy beers  a bo'ness mum and daughter are blazing a trail for the concept of using " real people " as fashion models -- by fronting a nationwide ad campaign for a major retail centre .  linda grant and daughter jemma liddle are about to become two of the most-recognised women in central scotland , after they were asked to join a top team promoting stirling 's thistles centres in the run-up to christmas .  linda grant  the choice of mum-of-two linda and jemma as models is seen as a ground-breaking departure from the usual fashion campaigns , increasingly under fire for featuring spindly females that most shoppers ca n't relate to .  with them as campaign icons are male models like stirling county and glasgow warriors rugby stars adam ashe , and finn russell , as well as author and history lecturer michael rapport .  phil byrne , centre director at the thistles , said : " living brand is a celebration of the personal style of a diverse cross section of for the bo'ness mum and daughter , the modelling stint has been both a revelation and an adventure , although both are now a little anxious at the prospect of being recognised everywhere they go .  jemma said : " it 's always good to do something outside your comfort zone and a professional modelling shoot was certainly that for me !  " being looked after by the hair and makeup team as well as styling my looks all added to the enjoyment though "  she added : " i was nervous , but the team and photographer really put me at ease . it was amazing to be doing the photos at stirling castle as well as in the thistles .  " i must admit it will be strange shopping in the thistles and seeing my face on billboards and displays . "  the living brand concept aims to woo custom to the stirling mall with " an authentic celebration of individuality across a diverse group of men and women , none of whom are professional models " .  besides that , each " they are wearing reflected their own tastes .  challenging the notion of what constitutes style -- just as clothes shopping heads towards its busiest season -- linda and jemma are billed as " a refreshing antithesis to standard marketing " .  this website and its associated newspaper adheres to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the editor by clicking here .  if you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the ipso by clicking here .  linlithgow journal and gazette provides news , events and sport features from the linlithgow area . for the best up to date information relating to linlithgow and the surrounding areas visit us at linlithgow journal and gazette regularly or bookmark this page .  for you to enjoy all the features of this website linlithgow journal and gazette requires permission to use cookies .  find out more ?  what is a cookie ?  what is a flash cookie ?  can i  cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( internet explorer , firefox , chrome etc ) from a website you visit . they are stored on your electronic device .  this is a type of cookie which is collected by adobe flash media player ( it is also called a local shared object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  however , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  the types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  revenue science ? target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  google ads ?  our sites contain advertising from google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . you can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  digital analytics ?  this is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . this data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  dart for publishers ?  this comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . this information is not used by us for any other type of monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  local targeting ?  our classified websites ( photos , motors , jobs and property today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . these cookies store no personally identifiable information .  grapeshot ?  we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  subscriptions online ?  our partner for newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  add this ?  add this provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . this widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , a friend .