Busy Magee just can't get enough of life on big stage
http://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/sport/hockey/busy-magee-just-cant-get-enough-of-life-on-big-stage-35110636.html

and next up on his busy agenda is the eurohockey league - the equivalent of football 's champions league - this weekend when world-class players like australia 's glenn turner and ulsterman iain lewers are among those taking part as bann become the first club outside mainland europe to host the first round of the series .  twelve of the leading euro clubs have already arrived in the co . down town and games get under way today , although bann 's two matches are n't until tomorrow and sunday .  and magee is relishing the event - just as he did when bann won the irish senior cup in march 2015 and finished runners-up in the irish hockey league last may , and when the international team won gold at world league 2 , finished fifth in world league 3 to qualify for the olympics , got bronze in the europeans , and had an absolutely memorable occasion in rio .  " it has been a whirlwind 18 months and now this will be a great weekend for the sport in banbridge , league finals in the past and created a great atmosphere for both fans and players , so i 'm really looking forward to the ehl .  " we are a passionate club who play with a lot of heart and the fans appreciate that .  " we hope this event will be a spectacle that the whole town can be proud of and that we can progress from our pool to the competition 's knock-out stages . "  there 's little doubt it will be a spectacle , with around 20 olympians spread around the 12 competing clubs .  the teams are split into four pools , which means two games each , but only the winners will go on to the next phase at easter .  bann sit out today 's action but face st. germain ( france ) tomorrow ( 2.45pm ) and royal leopold ( belgium ) on sunday ( 3.45pm ) .  " both games will be tough tests for us , " admitted magee . " the french team have the genestet brothers while leopold have added olympian glenn turner have talent of our own and with home support we might upset the odds . "  irish captain david harte will be another star attraction with his dutch club kampong , while england 's holcombe boast five olympians , including lewers .  hamburg from germany have a trio of olympic bronze medallists while the other teams come from spain , russia , poland , italy , scotland and wales .  havelock park has been transformed with the addition of two banks of seated stands along with a tented village with food stalls and sports shops , while there is a full programme of entertainment each night .  how to complain  if you have a complaint about the editorial content of the belfast telegraph or sunday life then contact the editor here . if you are not satisfied with the response provided then you can contact the independent press standards organisation here  your comments  comment rules : comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . it is belfast telegraph policy to close comments on court cases , tribunals and active legal investigations . we may also close comments on articles which are being targeted for abuse . problems with commenting ? **35;818;toolong