Farron: Hard Brexit would be an act of economic vandalism
http://www.libdemvoice.org/farron-hard-brexit-would-be-an-act-of-economic-vandalism-52132.html

tim farron has described the hard brexit the government seems set to hurtle towards as an " act of economic vandalism . "  he has responded to reports over the last two days that leaving the single market and customs union would cost a massive ? 66 billion a year . from the independent :  the leaked government document says : " the treasury estimates that uk gdp would be between 5.4 per cent and 9.5 per cent of gdp lower after 15 years if we left the eu with no successor arrangement , with a central estimate of 7.5 per cent . "  it adds : " the net impact on public sector receipts -- assuming no contributions to the eu and current receipts from the eu are replicated in full -- would be a loss of between ? 38 billion and ? 66 billion per year after 15 years , driven by the smaller size of the economy . "  liberal democrat leader tim farron said the leaked documents showed quitting the single market would wreck the economy .  " an act of sheer economic vandalism , " he said .  " the liberal democrats will stand up for britain 's membership of the single market .  " we can not stand by while this reckless , divisive and uncaring conservative government wrecks the uk economy . "  today , the guardian reports that one of the government 's brexit advisers previously warned that leaving the customs union could cost up to ? 25 billion a year .  in response to this report , tim farron said :  yesterday we were told hard brexit will cost more than ? 60 billion , and now we learn that leaving the eu customs union will cost ? 25 billion . the rocketing bill of leaving europe reveals the huge economic risk we face with a hard brexit .  the government must tell us its plan for britain 's future . the reckless handling of brexit by the conservative government has already seen the pound plummet , and that is well before all of the extra costs associated with a hard brexit impact our country 's economy . dangers of the course the government wants to drag us down -- and are given a say on whether that reflects their vision of leaving the eu . you have to wonder why the brexiteeers were so keen on a referendum but are n't confident enough in their case to put the reality to the british people for final approval .  " the net impact on public sector receipts -- assuming no contributions to the eu and current receipts from the eu are replicated in full -- would be a loss of between ? 38 billion and ? 66 billion per year after 15 years "  we could choose to bump up income tax bands by 5% , increasing public sector receipts as a proportion of gdp by 0.4% ( shall we just call it tax , eh ? ) .  this too might result in a similar ? 38-66billion over fifteen years , is this too economic vandalism ? or , perhaps merely a policy choice resulting from political choices reflecting public preferences ...  " we can not stand by while this reckless , divisive and given the high-stakes game of poker currently being played , i 'm holding my judgement on the government 's actual position until the self-imposed deadline for invoking article 50 has passed . so whilst " it 's important that the british people know the dangers of the course the government wantsbrexit supporters want to drag us down " we need to be careful , as has been pointed out elsewhere the eu commission is doing much to make remain unattractive ; although the commission might soften its stance if the uk does a u-turn and goes hard remain ...  i believe our policy is to have the closest possible relationship with the eu . we have a whole bunch of petitions out there trying to protect specific things like science funding and erasmus , which clearly acknowledge that continued full membership is unlikely .  i do n't see any inconsistency at all in a position that says " remain is best , but soft brexit is better than hard brexit "  kier starmer 's 170 questions . excellent opposition work that has taken him just a few days during the three plus months that labour left the field to us , rather than the sporadic outraged blustering that our leader thinks is the right approach ?  david evershed -- i understood was that our policy was to argue for a future mandate by referendum or election to halt leaving , or to rejoin , but whilst we have only the 8 mps and the government still has a mandate to pursue exit , we will argue that any deal needs to be put to the people and / or parliament , and that any deal that is forged should include free movement of people and continued entry of the single market .  it is n't that hard to understand , really .  what do people want the party to do ?  parade nick , paddy and tim through the streets in sackcloth and ashes repenting for ever having wanted the nation to be an eu member ?  ( nb -- that does seem to be what the mail wants all remainer politicians to do , judging from recent front pages ... )  " for a destination . when the deal is negotiated , in however many years ' time , the british people must have a chance to say if they would prefer the new arrangement , outside the european union , or would prefer to remain inside the european union "  despite in an earlier section saying there should n't re-run a referendum to get the result you like , the above quote does exactly that .  the uk voted to leave ( destination is outside the eu ) -- so returning to the eu should not be an option . in anycase if you did it would be accepting the euro and re-negotiating all our previous opt-outs .  we do n't actually know what the government will decide hard or soft brexit . the lib dems should be arguing -- along with other parties -- including most tory mps for membership of the single market but outside the eu ( as people voted to leave )  in some ways the lib dems are like the tory right/ukip -- both have " absolutist " views on the eu . any companies that have passporting rights have taken them up . services are tariff free and japan exports a huge value of them into the eu . companies can use mifid 2 equivalence rights , no issue for us as fully complaint service providers and in the worst case we open a brass plate on a desk in dublin .  i use all manner of american services from american express to twitter , google to microsoft and my house contains pringles , sony , panasonic , roland and pants from china , no trade deal was present .  by value 70% of our exports are under wto rules , and this includes some exports into eu . even if a full average 4% tariff is applied it would make almost no difference to us , here why ; take a bottle of french wine . the tariff applied is on the factory gate price , not the retail price . from vineyard to wholesaler , exporter and the rest , the supply chain is about 6 players long . each of these will absorb a part of this tariff .  of course as we import double that we export , the exchequer collects double the tariffs brussels would .  now add into this the vast untapped benefits our new found trading status affords us , and the world is our oyster .  tim would do very well to read the ground breaking book futurebabble , which tracks many of the key predictions made by economists and social scientists in the last 100 years . what you discover is that the vast majority of them got it wrong . even recently when oil was $130 a barrel , the economics consensus said $200 was a . almost certainty . guess what , oils prices collapsed to $30 .  tim history does not judge those well that make shrill hysterical predictions . a calm head attending to all the evidence and opportunities will give you greater vision  compassionate brexit . there are many reasons to view breixt as a vehicle to spread compassion . take for example the ghanian tomatoe growing industry . thanks to heavily subsidised italian tinned tomatoes , the eu has almost wiped out regime , able to trade with ghanian farmers .  germany makes vastly more from coffee than all the growers in africa put together , another symptom of the hammer blow inflicted by eu protectionism .  brexit really is a people 's revolution with the ability to unlock global potential .  i notice that siobhab benita , who stood as an independent for london mayor ( she can 5th ) has just joined us , partly on the basis of our position on brexit . we can use brexit to win over new voters as well .  whatever the 27 member states of the eu and the european parliament do agree to for the uk , they will make sure that it must be inferior to what would be on offer for the uk as a full member , therefore i would expect that advocating rejoining would always be an option to argue for .  of course , not leaving in the first place would be better . although i do not expect this , i also do not completely rule it out . nonetheless much damage attract funding is already taking place , so the consequences of the referendum vote will always be negative to some degree .  since we have no idea of the brexit plan as the tories refuse to say , any projection of damage is highly speculative guesswork , even if there were any precedents to educate a guess . it 's unlikely given the muppets in charge but it is possible we might even benefit economically from brexit . in the meantime , difficult though it is , it is pointless , even destructive , to devise policy around a complete unknown . egg on face being a big risk . just wait and see .  @john b : you keep saying the uk public voted leave , and so there should not no option on the table of the uk remaining in or rejoining the uk . likewise , the uk voted for a conservative government at the last election . by your logic , this means that there should be no criticism of the conservative government or of any of its policies . the people have spoken , in government , and there must be no option of anyone else ever forming a government .  post a comment  lib dem voice welcomes comments from everyone but we ask you to be polite , to be on topic and to be who you say you are . you can read our comments policy in full here . please respect it and all readers of the site .  if you are a member of the party , you can have the lib dem logo appear next to your comments to show this . you must be registered for our forum and can then login on this public site with the same username and password .  to have your photo next to your comment please signup your email address with gravatar.