Venezuela electoral body suspends referendum drive, opposition ...
http://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-venezuela-politics-idUKKCN12L002?il=0

caracas venezuela 's electoral authority on thursday suspended the next phase of a recall referendum against unpopular president nicolas maduro , sparking outcry from the opposition who accused the socialist government of dictatorial tactics .  the oil-rich country is mired in a brutal economic crisis that has families skipping meals amid food shortages and triple-digit inflation . maduro , a former bus driver and union leader elected three years ago to replace late leader hugo chavez , has seen his popularity tumble in hand with the recession .  his foes had vowed to push for a recall referendum against him this year , which , if successful would have triggered fresh presidential elections that polls show maduro would lose .  the election board had already said there would be no such vote this year , and appeared to put the final nail in the coffin on thursday night .  citing court orders , the electoral body said in a statement it was suspending next week 's signature drive to collect around 4 million signatures and trigger the vote .  earlier on thursday voided an earlier signature drive by the opposition , due to fraud allegations .  " we hope that justice will be served and that those responsible for this swindle will be detained , " said socialist party no. 2 diosdado cabello during a political rally on thursday .  the democratic unity coalition blasted the decision , adding it would outline its action plan on friday .  " we have a government of thieves using power to maintain itself , " opposition lawmaker jorge millan said on twitter .  " but in the street the people are demanding a recall , and no one will stop us ! "  the opposition needed a referendum this year because under venezuela 's constitutional rules , should maduro lose a plebiscite next year , his vice president would take over rather than there being a new election , denying the opposition their opportunity to take power after 17 years of socialism .  maduro 's rivals warn that by preventing a democratic solution to the crisis , the government is stoking chances of unrest in violent venezuela .  " the crisis worsens , " opposition leader and two-time presidential candidate henrique capriles said on twitter .  earlier this week , venezuela 's election board delayed an election for state governorships to 2017 from december , giving the government more breathing room before going to the polls ..  next in world news  washington/delaware , ohio u.s. republican presidential nominee donald trump said on thursday he would accept the result of the nov. 8 election - " if i win " - fuelling republican concerns his stance would make it harder for his party to maintain control of congress .  geneva russia has told the united nations it will stop bombing eastern aleppo for 11 hours a day for four days , but that is not enough to trigger a wider ceasefire deal under which militants would leave the syrian warzone , the u.n . said on thursday .  manila the philippines will maintain its trade and economic ties with the united states , trade minister ramon lopez said on friday , a day after president rodrigo duterte announced its " separation " from washington .  and media division of thomson reuters . thomson reuters is the world 's largest international multimedia news agency , providing investing news , world news , business news , technology news , headline news , small business news , news alerts , personal finance , stock market , and mutual funds information available on reuters.com , video , mobile , and interactive television platforms . learn more about thomson reuters products :