Three-quarters of maternity wards have no consultant on duty ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/10/26/three-quarters-of-maternity-wards-have-no-consultant-on-duty-ove/

three-quarters of maternity wards have no consultant on duty overnight  around three in four labour wards do not have on-site overnight cover from consultants , figures suggest .  a survey of 165 maternity units found that in 2014/2015 around 27% of labour wards have consultants physically present overnight on weekdays , falling to 15% at the weekend .  the census by the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists ( rcog ) also found the number of consultants may have reduced since figures were first recorded in 2013 and some recommendations on early pregnancy care had not been implemented .  edward morris , vice-president of clinical quality at the body , said : " the rcog recommends that trusts should ensure the adequate provision of consultant cover to deliver high quality safe care to women .  the number of consultants had reduced since the survey was first carried outcredit : alamy  " it is important to highlight that all consultant-led maternity units currently have 24-hour access to consultant obstetricians on call , some with resident working where needed .  " ultimately of their patient load , risk profile and staffing to decide whether their particular unit needs more frequent consultant presence . "  the rcog said slightly fewer units had provided responses to the latest census , so the data had to be interpreted with " some caution " .  the number of consultants had reduced since the survey was first carried out , however the body said this was likely to be a reflection of a fall in responses .  however it found recommendations to increase the low number of weekend early pregnancy services had not been put into effect .  " researchers at oxford university have shown that overnight consultant obstetrician presence is n't proven to improve care , and a national diktat to that effect would mean the closure of many smaller units , which is another reason why it would n't necessarily be a good idea . "