Mixed reality: A review of Microsoft's Hololens
http://www.information-age.com/mixed-reality-microsoft-hololens-123462967/

mixed reality : a review of microsoft 's hololens  the consumer will need time to get used to it and the technology will have to improve - as it will - going forward to ensure that mixed reality devices like microsoft 's hololens really do transform the way we operate in society  the demonstration included an overview of the technology , various industry scenario demonstrations to see what opportunities there are for technology companies , and an opportunity for information age to try the device .  having been fairly new to the technology industry when i first entered microsoft 's demo room i was expecting something entirely different to what hololens presented .  i expected a totally immersive , virtual experience . instead the other journalists and i were given a mixed reality experience , a connection between the physical and virtual worlds . a blend of reality and digital .  the hololens creates an artificial sensory experience like something out of a sci-fi film , albeit a basic one .  the new offering from microsoft projects holograms into real time the all-in-one device .  what do i mean by this ? well the hololens comes fully equipped with everything needed to have a semi-immersive virtual experience , there is no need for headphones , for example , it is all built into the headset .  game-changer  the device contains the world 's first self-contained holographic computer , with 2 environment sensors and 1 depth sensor that allow it to process real-time information . ' what we call spatial mapping ' , said leila martine , director of product marketing at microsoft , to information age .  ' the masterful ' holographing processing unit ( hpu ) , according to martine , allows for a detailed interaction between the real world and holograms .  i must admit , when trying out the hololens i was impressed . the holograms were clear and interactive with a variety of business applications obvious . although the technology does have some way to go .  ' we are at the beginning of journey , ' said martine , ' but already the journey is exciting , with significant possibilities . microsoft  my experience  the other journalists and i were given two hololens demos to try out .  the first was being used by case western reserve university for education purposes .  hololens allowed me to see the human body in good detail , and took me through different parts of the body .  you could walk around the 3d human body and control what layer you saw : muscles , veins , organs etc .  the technology 's aim in this field is to transform the way anatomy is taught and to further understand the human body in preparing the next generation of doctors .  it was impressive , but there are no tangible results yet to show what impact it has . having said this , case western are developing a curriculum based on this technology .  the second demo highlighted how 3d visualisation can bring storytelling to life in interactive new ways -- be that a presentation , sales tool , or education scenario . for example , the headset allows you to see where your audience ( if making a not , and suggests ways for you to improve consumer interaction .  i felt this was incredibly powerful in demonstrating what hololens could offer . it was captivating and provides the user with a range of possibilities in transforming business .  ' the art of possibility '  a nice soundbyte from martine as she described how the hololens and future upgrades has the capability to ' change and transform the business process ' .  the developer edition costs ? 2,719 so it is not for commercial use , microsoft is targeting businesses to transform aspects of their daily operations in creative ways .  businesses can add tailored apps to the developer hololens , and be taught to optimise its use at microsoft 's holographic academy .  the benefits are varied . ' geography is no longer an inhibitor , ' said martine , and it will save time , save money and reduce the manufacturing process .  seeing is believing  i was lucky enough to try the hololens , and it is important to see how it is used in business applications for , showing the technology and the possibilities it presents in action :  volvo cars  volvo is using the hololens to give customers a sensor 's vantage point to configuring cars in entirely new ways , allowing them to view car features in new , never-before-seen ways . microsoft hololens : partner spotlight with volvo cars  trimble  trimble 's ground-breaking innovations help architecture and construction industry professionals do their jobs better . microsoft hololens has the ability to extend trimble tools , by bringing 3d models to life as full-scale holograms and creating new ways to communicate and collaborate with remote teams across the globe .  it is easy to see why , but for all its benefits the technology is still in its very early stages . the field of vision on the hololens , for example , was limited to an extent .  the consumer will need time to get used to it and the technology will have to improve -- as it will -- going forward to ensure that mixed reality devices like microsoft 's hololens really do transform the way we operate since its launch in 1995 , information age has been regarded as one of the most respected technology titles in the b2b realm . more than 20 years on from its inception , the publication stands as the uk 's number one business-technology magazine , holding a strong influence over its prestigious readership of it leaders .  information age digital edition  since its launch in 1995 , information age has been regarded as one of the most respected technology titles in the b2b realm . more than 20 years on from its inception , the publication stands as the uk 's number one business-technology magazine , holding a strong influence over its prestigious readership of it leaders .