'A very dangerous man' - the criminal world of brutal gang enforcer ...
http://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/liverpool-news/a-very-dangerous-man--12102931

the echo looks at the spiral of violent organised crime which landed blue eyed thug jake smith with a life-sentence  get daily news by email  the live event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started please refresh this page in your browser to reload this live event video  a brutal gang enforcer jailed for life over a series of sickening crimes was finally snared by police - hiding out in a caravan in wales .  jake smith had been on the run for more than a year after a terrifying armed robbery on a woman and her two children -- when he beat the victim in front of the schoolboys -- in february 2014 .  still wanted by police , in october that year the 26-year-old imprisoned and tortured a vulnerable woman over a ? 9,000 drug debt -- slashing her face with scissors and beating her with a metal pole while her parents listened to her anguished cries over the phone .  both crimes had devastating effects on his victims ; the traumatised family immediately shattered torture victim now lives an " isolated " life in a secret location away from family and friends .  smith had been arrested on may 8 , 2014 , over the robbery , but was granted bail and went into hiding before he could be charged .  police finally caught up with him on june 20 last year , holed up in a caravan at lido beach caravan park , prestatyn , where officers also seized ? 36,000 worth of heroin and crack cocaine .  smith , who eventually pleaded guilty to robbery , blackmail , false imprisonment , inflicting gbh without intent , and possession of class a drugs with intent to supply , showed no emotion as he was jailed for life with a minimum term of 15 years at preston crown court last week .  jake smith , formerly of wordsworth street in toxteth jailed for life with a minimum of 15 years for robbery  read more  the court heard he had previous convictions for gbh following an incident in which a man was stabbed and beaten over another drugs debt are a very dangerous man with a history of violence related to organised crime ... you have very little , if any , empathy for your victims . "  in both the robbery and the false imprisonment incidents , smith was described by his victims as the " scariest " and " most violent " criminal despite several men being involved .  during the robbery smith , along with michael white , 26 , tom yeung , 22 , and another man , burst into the family 's lancashire home wearing skeleton masks and wielding a sledgehammer and knives -- intent on stealing a collection of legally owned firearms locked in a safe .  the court heard at one point the older child pushed one of the men after he grabbed the younger boy , shouting " get off my brother " - only to be put into a strangle-hold by one of the ruthless robbers .  armed siege at mansell road , kensington  read more  smith later punched the boy 's mother and held a knife to her face while she unlocked the safe including shotguns and rifles , more than 3,000 rounds of ammunition , ? 4,500 in cash , jewellery of " sentimental value " and personal documents including a wedding certificate .  in the other sickening crime , the victim had been forced to go to a house in mansell road , kensington , by smith and an associate called dean mcgrath , where she was subjected to a horrifying three day ordeal .  the men made calls to her parents demanding they pay ? 4,500 of the debt or smith would " cut off her fingers one-by-one with something blunt " .  he also forced the girl to tell her dad her " eyelids would be slit " and she would be " fed to his dog " if they did not comply or called the police .  the woman was rescued after armed police raided the property on october 14 collaring mcgrath and yeung -- but smith evaded arrest having left the house shortly beforehand .  white , who organised the armed robbery , and smith had both been members of the notorious drugs gang smith , left , and michael white were members of the ' scouse josh ' drugs gang  read more  the crime group ran a ? 500,000 operation flooding the streets of blackpool with heroin and crack cocaine , smuggled to the seaside resort from liverpool .  ringleader leon foster , 26 , ran the operation from the gang 's hq at a flat in peel street , toxteth , until it was raided in december 2013 following a seven month police investigation dubbed operation duroy .  the raids uncovered drugs as well as several machetes , a stun gun , live ammunition and body armour .  foster , formerly of jericho close in aigburth , was jailed for 12 years at preston crown court in july this year after pleading guilty to conspiracy to supply class a drugs .  white , formerly of sybil road in anfield ; was jailed for 11 years for the robbery .  tom yeung , of navigation wharf in dingle , who was involved in both offences , was jailed for 17 years after admitting robbery , blackmail ,  dean mcgrath , 27 , formerly of penrose drive in everton , was jailed for 12 and a half years after admitting blackmail , false imprisonment , assault occasioning actual bodily harm , and possession of cannabis .  scott peters , 27 , of harbour lane in preston , was jailed for 13 and a half years after suggesting the target for the robbery and helping to plan it , although he did not enter the house himself .  lee seymour , 31 , of brightmore drive , sheffield , was handed a two year prison sentence , suspended for two years , for blackmail after making a call to the false imprisonment victim 's parents suggesting they pay up .  advertising department  trinity mirror merseyside , the echo 's parent company , is one of the north west 's largest multimedia providers reaching more than 900,000 adults every month .  the liverpool echo , trinity mirror merseyside 's flagship brand , is the area 's best-read newspaper including national newspapers .  the liverpool echo reaches 1 in 3 people in the area with website reaches 1.5 million unique users each month who look at around 8.5 million pages** .  the editor  alastair machray  alastair machray was appointed editor of the liverpool echo in 2005 and is also editor-in-chief of trinity mirror merseyside , cheshire and north wales . he is a former editor of the daily post ( wales and england ) and editor-in-chief of the company 's welsh operations . married dad-of-two and keen golfer alastair is one of the longest-serving newspaper editors in the country . his titles have won numerous awards and spearheaded numerous successful campaigns .