Five talking points from FC Barcelona's 4-0 win
http://www.fcbarcelona.com/football/first-team/detail/article/five-talking-points-from-the-4-0-defeat-of-granada

Terms and conditions  Information about Spanish Act 15/1999 on the protection of personal data ( Articles 5 , 6 and 11 ) and Spanish Law 34/2002 of 11 July , services of information society and electronic commerce .  Personal data provided on this form will be included in a file of which the FC Barcelona is the Controller and will be processed for the management of its relations with FC Barcelona and for the supply of publications and communications by mail and electronic mail referred to FC Barcelona services and activities , and will only be disclosed to third parties with your consent or if it is allowed in accordance with the law .  Your personal information will also be used to inform and send you promotional and commercial offers related on services and products FC Barcelona is interested in marketing , if not opposed to treatment within 30 days , by marking the box of the form .  To exercise your rights of opposition , access , rectification and cancellation you must contact FC Barcelona OAB , by mail at Av . to oab@fcbarcelona.cat .  Using e-mail address and mobile number  In accordance with the provisions of Spanish Law 34/2002 of July 11 , Services Information Society and Electronic Commerce , as amended by Royal Decree-Law 13/2012 , I expressly authorize FC Barcelona for sending messages on information , promotions and trade-related services and products FC Barcelona is interested in marketing to the e-mail address and to mobile phone I have provided to oab@fcbarcelona.cat or registered office of the Controller .  Photo galleries  Arda Turan looks destined to be as big a hit at the Camp Nou as he was at the Vicente Calder ? n . His was just eight minutes into his Liga debut for Bar ? a when his perfect through ball to Leo Messi was notched up as an assist . His passing was exquisite throughout his 71 minutes on the pitch , and he also played a key role with a smart dummy leading to the third goal . Today 's other league debutant , Aleix Vidal , made it look like he 's been a Bar ? a right-back all his life . . Eleven plus  Luis Enrique was not wrong when he said that the two new arrivals have done wonders for squad-depth . He could afford to leave the likes of Sergio Busquets , Javier Mascherano , Andr ? s Iniesta and Dani Alves on the bench and yet the effects were barely noticed . Sergi Roberto was handed the role of central midfielder and did not disappoint .  3 . Me-Me-Messi !  The Argentinian has scored eleven goals in eight games against Granada , and he got three of those this afternoon . For the first two he beat the offside trap to perfection to collect assists from Arda and Luis Su ? rez , and the third was also about being in the right place at the right time . But we 've got so used to Messi scoring goals that the only real surprise was that that was his first Liga hat-trick of the season ! A last minute reminder for Ballon d'Or voters , perhaps ?  4 . Granada 's gamble  Unlike most managers that come to the Camp Nou , Jos ? just to sit back and defend . But starting with two strikers did n't pay off , it just gave the Bar ? a frontline more room for manoeuvre , and Messi had already netted twice in the first quarter of an hour .  5 . Neymar  A run of four games without a goal ended on Wednesday in the Copa del Rey against Espanyol for Bar ? a 's other Ballon d'Or candidate . In the win over Granada the Brazilian was back on the scoresheet with a beautifully taken goal to round off the 4-0 win . Previously , he was involved in two of Messi 's three goals , the Bar ? a number 11 producing an excellent all round performance before heading off to Zurich on Monday for the Ballon d'Or gala .