Common heartburn drugs taken by tens of millions 'increase the risk ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3394705/Common-heartburn-drugs-taken-tens-millions-increase-risk-chronic-kidney-disease.html

A common type of heartburn pill has been linked to an increased risk of kidney disease , scientists warned .  Those people taking proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) are more likely to develop chronic kidney disease , a new study found .  The side effect is rare , and the study does not prove the drugs cause kidney failure , Johns Hopkins scientists cautioned .  However , past studies have also linked the medication to an increased kidney disease risk .  And , because tens of millions of people take the drugs each year , the association is troublesome , researchers said .  The pills are sold by prescription and over-the-counter in some countries , including under the brand names Prilosec , Prevacid and Zegerid .  Heartburn pills known as proton pump inhibitors - which are commonly sold under the brand names Prilosec , Prevacid and Zegerid - have been linked to a higher risk of kidney disease , a new study found . ( File picture )  Share this article  As a result , they are able heartburn .  Scientists are n't certain how the drugs affect the kidneys .  But , prior research has linked PPIs to interstitial nephritis , a form of kidney inflammation .  In this new study , the scientists analysed two large sets of data to examine the link between PPI use and kidney disease in the general population .  PPI use was linked to an increased risk of chronic kidney disease in both data sets .  However , PPI users were more likely than non-users to be overweight or be taking medication to lower cholesterol or blood pressure .  PPIs work by stopping cells in the stomach lining from producing excess acid . As a result , they are able to help prevent ulcers and reduce reflux symptoms , including heartburn , depicted  High blood pressure is known to increase the risk for kidney disease .  The scientists first reviewed data on 10,482 people who were part of a study on atherosclerosis -- the hardening of the arteries .  Half of those people were tracked for more than 14 years .  The people taking PPIs .  Doctors must weigh the risks and benefits before recommending PPIs and this study adds chronic kidney disease to the risk of rare , but serious side effects associated with PPI use  Dr Adam Schoenfeld , of University of California , San Francisco  Comparatively , they found 1,382 incidents among 10,160 individuals who were n't taking the pills .  And so , they determined if 1,000 PPI users were tracked for one year , they would see 14.2 new cases of chronic kidney disease .  Meanwhile , there would be a rate of 10.7 new cases if 1,000 non-PPI-users were followed for a year , the scientists noted .  The study estimated that over 10 years , the absolute risk of chronic kidney disease was 11.8 per cent among PPI users .  That same risk is estimated at 8.5 per cent in nonusers .  A second analysis entailed examining data on 248,751 patients in the Geinsinger Health Systems in Pennsylvania .  Half of those participants were followed for at least six years .  This time , scientists found .  In contrast , there were 28,226 incidents of the disease among 231,851 non-users .  The incident rate for PPI users was 20.1 per 1,000 person-years .  Similarly , the rate for the disease was 18.3 per 1,000 person-years without the medication .  From that analysis , the scientists estimated that over 10 years , the absolute risk of chronic kidney disease among the Geinsinger patients was 15.6 per cent among PPI users .  Scientists looked at two sets of data that compared patients taking PPIs and those who are not on the medications . In both instances , they determined PPI-users were more likely to develop chronic kidney disease ( pictured ) than those who were n't taking the pills  That same risk was only 13.9 per cent if they were n't on the medication .  However , it is possible that the PPI users had other risk factors for kidney disease that were not related to the medication , the scientists stated .  But still , the findings add to growing evidence that suggests some patients may experience dangerous side effects Grady of the University of California , San Francisco , in an editorial .  Previous research linked the pills to kidney damage , heart problems , infections and fractures .  Dr Schoenfeld told Reuters : ' Doctors must weigh the risks and benefits before recommending PPIs and this study adds chronic kidney disease to the risk of rare , but serious side effects associated with PPI use . '  He added that many people with heartburn and indigestion do n't need PPIs .  Lifestyle and behaviour changes -- such as getting more exercise and drinking less alcohol -- may have the same effect as the medication for mild stomach symptoms , he said .