London Classic Theatre to Launch New Tour of Harold Pinter's THE ...
http://www.broadwayworld.com/westend/article/London-Classic-Theatre-to-Launch-New-Tour-of-Harold-Pinters-THE-BIRTHDAY-PARTY-20160125

" there 's a gentleman living here . he 's got a birthday today , and he 's forgotten all about it . so we 're going to remind him . we 're going to give him a party . "  a shabby boarding house in a small english seaside town . an elderly couple take care of a solitary guest , who rarely ventures out . the arrival of two enigmatic strangers seems to offer a welcome distraction from their mundane existence . but when an impromptu , seemingly innocent birthday party abruptly turns into a deadly game of cat and mouse , there are horrifying repercussions .  by turns , cryptic thriller and macabre comedy , the birthday party was harold pinter 's first major work and is among the most unusual and absorbing of his plays . london classic theatre presents the first significant touring revival of the twenty-first century , promising to bring this ground-breaking classic to fresh and exhilarating life .  playwright , director , actor , poet and political activist , harold pinter was born on 10 october betrayal , old times , the homecoming and the caretaker . in 2005 , he was awarded the nobel prize for literature .  jonathan ashley plays goldberg . for the company , he has appeared in waiting for godot , entertaining mr sloane , the importance of being earnest and the double inconstancy . his other theatre credits include the tempest and hansel and gretel ( theatre royal , bury st edmunds ) , abigail 's party , arsenic and old lace , dick barton and the secret of the pharoah 's tomb , one for the pot , ladies in retirement , hay fever and salad days ( southwold summer theatre ) , the hooligan clown ( lyric theatre , hammersmith ) , scapin 's tricks and the winter 's tale ( wimbledon studio theatre ) , waiting for godot and the dumb waiter ( albany empire ) and landscape ( finborough theatre ) .  michael cabot is the founder and artistic director of london classic theatre . he has directed all thirty-four lct productions since their debut in 1993 . these have included waiting for godot , importance of being earnest , equus , ghosts , after miss julie and the caretaker . he has overseen the company 's transition from one of the success stories of the london fringe in the late nineties to its current position as one of the uk 's most prolific touring companies . as a director , his other work includes pera palas ( arcola ) , the power of love ( southwark playhouse ) , marat/sade ( arcola ) , tattoo ( new grove ) , and most recently henry naylor 's the collector at the arcola , which previously won a fringe first at the 2014 edinburgh festival .  london classic theatre  in april 2000 , london classic theatre was launched as a touring theatre company with david mamet 's oleanna . this inaugural tour lost a small fortune but doors had opened and , crucially , the work was being seen . sixteen years and thirty-four tours later , london classic theatre is now a successful , established part of the commercial uk touring theatre scene . the company has never received any funding or sponsorship for programmed a repertoire of classic and modern classic plays , a mixture of the challenging and the commercial , big titles and less well-known , including two uk premi ? res - hugh leonard 's love in the title and joanna murray- smith 's nightfall . as venues and audiences have become more familiar with the work , he has been able to push the boundaries of what lct offers , both in ambition , scale and complexity .