More than a quarter of men over the age of 85 'had sex in the last year'
http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/love-sex/more-than-a-quarter-of-men-over-the-age-of-85-had-sex-in-the-last-year-a6875386.html

More than a quarter of men over the age of 85 ' had sex in the last year '  Men appear to have higher sex drives than women in their later years ODD ANDERSEN/AFP/Getty Images  More than a quarter of men over the age of 85 had sex in the last year , according to a new analysis which sheds light on the intimate lives of pensioners -- and also shows that while women might live longer , they have trouble finding love as they get older because they increasingly outnumber men .  Men appear to have higher sex drives than women in their later years , with more than 30 per cent of 76 to 80-year-olds thinking about sex at least once a week compared to only 7 per cent of women , the research by the International Longevity Centre ( ILC ) think-tank found .  Using the latest available data from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing , the analysis showed that among the over 65s , around 60 per cent of men and 37 per cent of women engaged in 85s , around 25 per cent of men said they had sex in the past year compared to 10 per cent of women .  " Romantic relationships are a fundamental part of people 's life -- not just at a young age , but throughout the life course . And yet sexuality among older people is understudied at best , and neglected at worst , " said ILC research fellow Cesira Urz ? Brancati in a blog about the findings .  The research also revealed a " profound gender gap " when it came to the likelihood of men and women finding love later in life , due to the fact that nearly two thirds of divorcees and three quarters of widowers aged over 50 are women -- leaving them with far fewer men to choose from .  Read more  " In general , finding a new partner appears to be harder for women than men at any age , but it is next to impossible for women past the age of 75 , " Ms Brancati wrote . " The likelihood of starting a new relationship drastically drops with age , even after taking into account any potential health factors . "  With an ageing population and both men and women living longer , the ILC said policymakers would be wise to consider raising awareness about later-life relationships and setting up elderly dating initiatives . Helping couples to find each other when they are older would also reduce the impact of loneliness , which can have severe health implications .  " While only a tiny proportion of unmarried older people begins a new relationship after divorce or widowhood , at least half of all older people still think about sexual activity on a regular basis , " said Ms Brancati . " This suggests that older people would benefit from increased opportunities to date and find love in later life . "