Coldest night of the year on way to Huddersfield
http://www.examiner.co.uk/news/west-yorkshire-news/coldest-night-year-way-huddersfield-10895651

coldest night of the year on way to huddersfield  and there could be snow on higher ground later this week  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  snow at holme moss  huddersfield is set for the coldest night of the winter tonight .  temperatures could plunge as low as minus 4 ? overnight in some areas .  and it 's likely that later this week , parts of the town could be hit by snow .  a weather front moving in late on tuesday and through wednesday could see hilly areas above 1,000 feet get several inches of snow , although most of the town will see it fall as heavy rain and sleet .  huddersfield weatherman paul stevens said ; " the margins are very tight . if things go one way , we could see the hills and moors get up to a foot of snow but if they do n't , most of us will see sleet rather than snow .  " it is of the winter so far , dropping as low as minus 2 ? , and it is going to be even colder tonight . some low-lying areas will see it reach minus 4 ? and everywhere will be below freezing .  send a story  advertising department  the huddersfield daily examiner is the leading morning title read throughout the huddersfield and holmfirth areas .  with a daily circulation of 18,241 ( abc july-dec 2012 ) and every issue read by 49,374 ( jicreg 1/10/12 ) we are the area 's favourite and most trusted newspaper .  our www.examiner.co.uk website is the number one local news website in the area with 250,000 unique users and almost 2,000,000 page views a month* , 44% of who are in the desirable abc1 socio-economic groups .  the editor  roy wright  editor , huddersfield daily examiner  phone  01484 437707  roy wright was appointed editor of the huddersfield daily examiner in 2002 . prior to this he was assistant editor of the liverpool echo for three years . he has also worked at the hull daily mail roy grew up in burnley , lancashire and has worked in the local newspaper industry for 25 years .