India's 'Facebook ruling' is another nail in the coffin of the MNO model
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/02/15/indias_facebook_ruling_is_another_nail_in_the_coffin_of_the_mno_model/

recent articles  nobody could accuse india 's telecoms regulator , trai , of being in the operators ' pockets . this month it has , once again , set eye-watering reserve prices for the upcoming 700 mhz spectrum auction ( see separate item ) , and now it has taken one of the toughest stances in the world on net neutrality , in effect banning zero rated or discounted content deals like reliance communications ' facebook basics , or bharti airtel 's zero .  in a ruling last monday , trai said telecoms providers are banned from offering discriminatory tariffs for data services based on content , and from entering deals to subsidize access to certain websites . they have six months to wind down any existing arrangements which contravene the new rules . its stance is even stricter than in other countries with strong pro-neutrality laws , such as brazil and the netherlands .  " this is the most extensive and stringent regulation on differential pricing anywhere in the world , " pranesh prakash , policy director at the centre for internet and place of complete ban have clearly lost . "  such decisions , combined with high spectrum costs , will quickly make the traditional cellular business model unworkable in india , and the more that happens , the more wireless internet innovation will switch to open networks running on wi-fi and unlicensed spectrum . r.s. sharma , chairman of trai , was careful to tell reporters that the zero rating ruling would not affect any plans to offer free wi-fi services , like those planned by google in a venture with indian railways .  a disaster for mnos , not facebook  facebook pronounced itself " disappointed " at trai 's ruling , having lobbied aggressively for a more flexible approach since rcom was forced to suspend the basics offering in december while the consultation process took place . but while the ruling bars the basics offering -- which provided free , low speed access , on rcom 's network , to a selection of websites , curated by facebook -- it does not stop the social media giant pursuing other initiatives within its internet.org umbrella . these include projects drones and unlicensed spectrum , to the unserved of india and other emerging economies .  so while the trai decision may be a setback for facebook , it is not the body blow that it represents for the mnos with their huge debt loads and infrastructure costs , and low arpus . facebook , with 130m users in india , has a comparable reach to the indian mnos ( only three , bharti airtel , vodafone and idea , have more subscribers than facebook has users ) , and is better skilled at monetizing those consumers .  the challenge for companies like facebook is that strict neutrality rules reduce their ability to harness others ' networks in order to reach out to new users . there are about 240m people in india who are online , but do n't use facebook , and about 800m who are not connected , so the growth potential is far larger than in the other 37 countries where basics is offered , such as kenya or zambia ( facebook is blocked in china ) . using rcom 's network and marketing activities was than launching drones , but facebook has other options too , including its existing efforts to make its services more usable on very basic handsets and connections ; the ability to leverage the whatsapp brand ; and partnerships with wi-fi providers .  the drones may have less immediate results than basics , but they are a high profile example of an ongoing shift towards open networks , which has been going on for years , driven more by wi-fi proliferation than neutrality laws . the latter will be an accelerant , however .  all internet will be free , not zero rated  currently , zero rating is an increasingly popular tactic to lure users with an apparently cheap deal and then , hopefully , see them upgrade to richer data plans , or spend money on m-commerce and premium content , in future . zero rating involves allowing users access to selected websites and services without it affecting their data caps or allowances .  the us regulator has so far tolerated the practice , but the debate is raging , there and elsewhere , over whether it internet services . if other authorities take the stance adopted by trai in india , operators will have to find new ways to attract customers and differentiate themselves .  increasingly , access to a truly open internet will be the baseline , and priced extremely low . that low pricing will be made commercially viable by rising use of wi-fi to reduce cost of data delivery , whether for mnos , wireline providers or web players like google and facebook , which are moving into access provision . providers , whether traditional or new , will have to stop regarding access to the internet as a premium service or a privilege -- it will be more akin to connecting someone to the electricity grid , just the base enabler of the real revenue model .  just as it 's only when users plug something into that grid that they start to pay fees , so the operators will charge for higher value offerings which ride on top of the internet -- premium content , enterprise services , cloud storage , freemium applications and so on .  the mobile , the ability to access the internet from a mobile device was regarded as a value-add , almost a miracle . now that the wireless network is often the primary access method , they need to change their ideas and be more like the smarter cablecos -- which have tacked internet access onto a model driven by paid-for content and services -- or the web giants , which have worked out ways to monetize ' free ' access , from advertising to big data .  this , of course , is one of the goals of internet.org and google 's similar initiatives involving drones , white space spectrum and satellites . the more users are able to access the internet , preferably for free , and the more they see google or facebook as their primary conduits to the web , the more data these companies have to feed into their deep learning platforms , their context aware services and their advertising and big data engines .  so while critics of trai said the zero rating decision was a setback to the goal of getting internet access into the population is too large and potentially rich for facebook and its rivals to give up at the first hurdle .  facebook ceo mark zuckerberg wrote in a blog post : " while we 're disappointed with today 's decision , i want to personally communicate that we are committed to keep working to break down barriers to connectivity in india and around the world . internet.org has many initiatives , and we will keep working until everyone has access to the internet. "