US election 2016: Day one of the Republican civil war
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/election-us-2016-35665834

us election 2016 : day one of the republican civil war  well , that 's it then . the republican party has come unglued . it 's been a long time in the making , but the day of reckoning is finally here .  for decades there 's been an uneasy alliance between the various factions within the republican party . the business interests have joined with social conservatives and economic populists to form a governing coalition .  at least it was a governing coalition before barack obama won two straight presidential races and fashioned an electorate made up of the young , minorities and women that has significantly tilted the playing field toward democrats for the foreseeable future .  while thanks to population distribution and electoral district map-making republicans seem secure in their hold on the us congress , mr obama has proven that the power of the presidency matters most . presented with this frustration , the republican party is tearing itself asunder .  donald trump is leading a movement of populists and some disaffected evangelicals against the reigning establishment victory . what once seemed to be an impossible feat could , with sweeping wins in primary contests over the next two weeks , become a new , very different reality .  all this was laid bare in a series of remarkable events over the last 24 hours .  image copyrightgetty images  republican debate - shots fired  the big question going into thursday night 's republican debate in houston was whether , with their backs to the wall , mr trump 's two main challengers would launch a full-scale assault on the frontrunner .  within the first few minutes it became clear that they would . marco rubio tore into the new yorker 's business record . ted cruz questioned his conservative credentials . both mocked his lack of policy details . the blows came fast and hard .  this was not the first time a presidential competitor had gone after mr trump of course . but up until now the attacks had always come from the desperate margins .  in july former texas governor rick perry called mr trump a " cancer on race .  then louisiana governor bobby jindal went after the new yorker , labelling him a narcissist and an egomaniac who was " full of foolishness and nonsense " . he suspended his campaign in november .  jeb bush was the next to make an attack run , tweeting earlier this month that the billionaire was a liar , a loser and a whiner . last saturday mr bush 's presidential quest ended .  now the fusillade against trump is coming from the men standing next to him on the debate stage . there are no desperate margins anymore . the desperation has reached all the way to the top .  media captiontrump mocks rubio 's water cravings  a new kind of war  as he has when confronted with attacks in the past , mr trump launched a storm the following day against his aggressors .  he tweeted that mr rubio was a lightweight and mr cruz was a liar . he said the floridian " looks like a little boy on the stage " and the texan is a " nasty guy " . he said that mr rubio was a " nervous basket case " who " was putting on makeup with a trowel " .  the difference this time , though , is that mr rubio is responding in kind . gone is the noble , high-spirited talk of his humble beginnings and desire to launch a " new american century " . instead mr rubio 's rallies on friday seemed more like a late-night stand-up comedy act .  mr rubio read mr trump 's tweets and mocked his typos .  " is that how they spell ' choker ' at the wharton school of business ? " he quipped . he called mr trump a " con man " who " spent a career in business sticking it to the little guys . "  he even said that mr trump was powdering his " sweat moustache " during breaks at the debate and had requested a full-length mirror , maybe " to check if his pants were wet " .  for months mr trump has been operating on a different rhetorical level than his presidential opponents crowds that he thinks the whole us political process is a reality-tv joke - and he , for one , is going to let them in on it .  meanwhile serious politicians gave serious speeches , and mr trump ate them alive , one by one .  on friday mr rubio decided to play the game by mr trump 's rules . at this point , however , the new yorker may have an insurmountable head start .  image copyrightgetty images  the christie dilemma  the biggest bombshell of the past 24 hours came when mr trump took the stage in dallas on friday morning , flanked by former republican adversary chris christie .  the new jersey governor 's endorsement marks a turning point in the republican nomination fight . up until now mr rubio has dominated the establishment endorsement battle . mr trump 's allies were a collection of political has-beens and fringe personalities .  mr christie , however , is as establishment as they come . he 's the former head of the powerful republican governors association . he was the keynote speaker , it 's impossible to characterise mr trump as a hostile outside force anymore . mr trump 's scary political phone calls are coming from inside the house .  if they all stick together , there 's a chance they could prevent mr trump from winning the nomination . but the benefits of breaking from the pack and supporting the new yorker now may be too tempting to resist .  by being one of the first to endorse mr christie grabs a front seat in mr trump 's new republican order . expect others to follow , as maine governor paul lepage did later on friday .  and now what ?  so is this the beginning or the end ? will mr trump and his new band of supporters take over the republican party ?  the next few weeks will tell us a great deal , as his competitors - mr cruz , mr rubio and ohio governor john kasich - all face tough tests in primaries in their home states .  if any of them lose they will likely be knocked out of the to the nomination .  then it 's a question of whether the party will fall in line behind their new leader or fight a rearguard battle to the last man .  some republicans do n't appear eager to go gently into the night .  " my party has gone crazy , " south carolina senator lindsey graham , himself a former republican presidential hopeful , said at a congressional dinner thursday night , punctuating the line with an expletive .  on friday rubio fashioned it as a battle for the heart and soul of the republican party .  " the republican party would be split apart if he became the nominee , " rubio said . " we can not allow the party of reagan to be taken over by a con man . "  a civil war is brewing within the republican ranks - and the bloodshed has only just begun .