60% of gay men diagnosed with HIV 'hooked up on dating apps'
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3466498/Dating-apps-feature-STD-warnings-60-gay-men-diagnosed-HIV-hooked-dating-apps.html

more than 60 per cent of gay and bisexual men diagnosed with hiv reported meeting sexual partners online , according to a new study .  the finding has prompted calls for hookup apps and dating websites to include warnings about sexually transmitted diseases .  scientists recommend such apps partner with public health groups to share messages about the risks of sexual encounters arranged online .  study co-author dr nicole alexander-scott , director of the rhode island department of health , said : ' a study like this is an urgent call to action for greater collaboration around education to address the health needs of men who have sex with men .  ' the rate of new hiv diagnoses among men who have sex with men represents an unacceptable health disparity that absolutely must be addressed . '  more than 60 per cent of gay and bisexual men who were diagnosed with hiv in 2013 in rhode island claim they contracted the disease from someone they met on a dating app , according to a new study . and so , scientists argue was conducted by scientists from brown university , the miriam hospital and the rhode island department of health .  the study focused on residents of rhode island .  there were 74 new hiv diagnoses in the state in 2013 , according to the study .  share this article  and of those 43 people , 22 told the scientists that they believe they were infected by a man they met online .  five dating sites and apps -- some of which are also used by women -- were cited as the most popular by the infected men : grindr , manhunt , scruff , adam4adam and craigslist .  the scientists interviewed 70 of the 74 newly diagnosed people for the study .  dr amy nunn , an associate professor at brown and director of the rhode island public health institute , said : ' this is a statewide study that included nearly all individuals newly diagnosed with hiv across the entire state .  ' this is one of the first studies to document how common internet use is among people newly diagnosed with hiv advance public health . '  lead study author dr philip chan , an assistant professor of medicine at brown and director at the std clinic at the miriam hospital , noted that widely used sites are common in the gay and bisexual culture .  those apps and sites can lead to lasting relationships -- not just health risks .  there were 43 new hiv cases from men who have sex with men ( msm ) in rhode island in 2013 , the study revealed . of that group , 22 said they were infected by someone they met online  and so , the goal of the study is not to stigmatize men who use those sites .  instead , dr chan and dr nunn added , the goal is to inspire partnerships with companies to include more information to slow the spread of hiv .  dr chan said : ' across the us , we are seeing men who have sex with men as the number one risk group for hiv infection .  ' on these online hookup sites , many young men who ' it 's really an under recognized and under-utilized approach we should be using to reach out to and engage this group . '  the five most popular dating apps cited by the hiv-infected men in the study include grindr , manhunt , scruff , adam4adam and craigslist  thus far , public health officials have struggled to get information on such sites and apps that charge for advertising .  that 's because they have no discounts for non-profits or do n't discount enough .  craigslist and scruff ads are free , however , but staff at small non-profit or government agencies struggle to continually repost ads .  dr nunn said : ' one of the challenges this study highlights is that it 's prohibitively expensive for many organizations who focus on public health promotion to buy ads on these apps and websites .  ' reducing disease transmission should be part of these organizations ' corporate social responsibility programs . '  the study noted that advertising can cost thousands of dollars .  dr chan said : ' we would like to see more of public health departments . '  the study added that in 2014 , hiv infections in rhode island grew by 97 new diagnoses .  the scientists gave sites including adam4adam and manhunt credit for recently allowing their users to list their hiv status in their profile .  and , those sites , as well as scruff , allow users to list whether they are taking the hiv preventative daily regimen pre-exposure prophylaxis ( prep ) .