Bill Shorten: Christensen and Bernardi remind us of the harm words ...
http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/feb/29/bill-shorten-christensen-and-bernardi-remind-us-of-the-harm-words-can-do

Bill Shorten : Christensen and Bernardi remind us of the harm words can do  Malcolm Turnbull has the power to end the damaging rhetoric about marriage equality and Safe Schools -- if he 's prepared to show leadership and courage  ' Safe Schoolslets young people who identify as gay know that they have every right to be accepted and respected for who they are . We should never underestimate how important this message is -- or the consequences of trying to shout it down . ' Pictured : Cory Bernardi Photograph : Mike Bowers for the Guardian  Some might prefer to ignore their statements , or dismiss them as deliberately provocative , but these are elected members of the government of Australia , choosing to use their position in parliament to pursue a prejudicial vendetta against the Safe Schools program .  Safe Schoolshas been labelled a lot of things : Marxism , cultural relativism , " grooming " and part of something called the " rainbow ideology " .  But Safe Schools is not about imposing an ideology , or an " treat everyone equally , to understand rather than judge . It is an important program , designed to prevent the bullying and intimidation of children who are struggling with questions of identity and sexuality .  Safe Schoolslets young people who identify as gay know that they have every right to be accepted and respected for who they are . We should never underestimate how important this message is -- or the consequences of trying to shout it down .  Anyone who 's been a teenager , or raised one , knows growing up is hard . Kids can be cruel to their peers , and many young people go through tough times and experience low moments .  But a young Australian who identifies as gay is six times more likely to consider taking their own life , compared to their sibling , classmate or teammate . Two out of five young Australians who are gay have thought about self-harm or suicide .  For kids in the regions and the bush , physical remoteness can add to a sense of isolation .  Both casual , unthinking discrimination health . Both are far too common , not just in our schoolyards or online but in sporting clubs , in the outer and even in our national parliament .  If one government program , designed to teach respect and inclusion , is capable of provoking the sort of unhinged and unfounded abuse we saw from an angry few last week , I shudder to think what kind of animosity Malcolm Turnbull 's plebiscite on marriage equality will stir up .  There 's no doubt in my mind Turnbull 's plan for a $160m taxpayer-funded opinion poll is a waste of money . But the real cost could be much higher , if harder to measure .  How do we quantify the damage done to a young person 's sense of self , if they are subjected to taxpayer-funded advertising arguing that they are a second-class citizen ?  How can we guess the effect on children of seeing Australian-government sponsored advertisements claiming their parents are not fit to marry ?  How do we measure the harm inflicted by a long and poisonous debate , where all and magnified ?  It is hard to know the toll this will take on the psyches and self-confidence of so many -- but it is easy for our parliament to do something about it . As elected representatives , we have a responsibility . Not just to be mindful of our words but to do the right thing with our actions .  This is why our parliament should have a free vote on marriage equality , now . The legislation is already in the chamber and I believe the numbers are there to pass it . This week , my shadow parliamentary secretary , Terri Butler , will be re-introducing her bill for marriage equality into the parliament .  But if Malcolm Turnbull wants to introduce his own bill , I would be happy to second it .  Imagine if at Mardi Gras next Saturday , instead of dreading a drawn-out and divisive plebiscite , Australians were celebrating marriage equality at last .  Imagine if by the start of term two , Safe Schools was recognised and secure .  This is far from impossible . leadership and a bit of courage , it can be done quickly and easily .