Sir Peter Maxwell Davies's life was one of maniacal productivity ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/music/classical-music/sir-peter-maxwell-davies-dies-aged-81/

He explained that he had " popped down to London for some chemo " , and had noticed this interesting concert of music by young composers was on . He was wearing a knitted waist-coat of a kind which used to be called ' snazzy ' , given to him by an admirer some years back , and though he was grey with fatigue he seemed almost his old self .  The quiet fortitude and undimmed curiosity of this mortally ill man were amazing , but sheer strength of character had always been one of Maxwell Davies 's chief traits . His life was one of almost maniacal productivity , so great that he needed several publishers just to cope with the flow .  He wrote his opera the Doctor of Myddfai in a mere six weeks , pausing only to eat and sleep . In his middle years he lived a life of seemingly monk-like austerity on a remote Orkney island , where he had to draw his water from a well and walk several miles to buy a pint of milk ( though of boyfriends at that Orkney fastness , and guests discovered he cooked wonderful pasta dishes , a skill he learned during his student days in Rome in the 1950s ) .  Alongside the quiet determination and fluty , slightly vicar-ish punctiliousness of speech went an exquisite courtesy . He was quite often a guest on my magazine show on BBC Radio 3 in the 1990s , and I was struck by how he extended this courtesy to everyone equally , whether it was the distinguished professor in the studio , or the PA who brought his tea .  Another memory is of Sir Peter in Orkney , where he created a wonderful annual festival which still continues , and also wrote many of the children 's works which are one of his chief claims to fame .  One year I was approaching St Magnus Cathedral for a concert , and at a distance I caught a glimpse of some elderly worthies standing at the entrance , all wearing the same jackets and ties , all caught in the setting son . They looked like members of the town of them turned out to be Sir Peter .  Like Richard Hoggart and David Hockney , he was a lower-middle-class Northern boy made good . That 's why he was so determined to pass on the values of high culture to the next generation .  It 's hard to square this sight with my early memories of Maxwell Davies conducting his group The Fires of London , when he wore flower-power shirts , knitted ponchos and red shoes , and had a mop of curly hair as unruly as the young Simon Rattle 's .  Only a few years previously his St Thomas Wake : Foxtrot for Orchestra had caused a scandal when it was performed at the Proms , and even more so in Germany . The most notorious of these early works was Eight Songs for a Mad King , which evoked the madness of King George III in an expressionist style of nerve-shredding intensity .  It 's easy to say that he simply turned from radical youngster to conservative , but the steely blue eyes and determined jaw of the old man showed that anger in him , which spilled over briefly in the satirical fury of those works of the 1960s and early 1970s .  Religion was often the target , and yet he revered Latin Christian culture of the Middle Ages , and drew on it all his life . In later life he seemed to become reconciled to the church , and even wrote some liturgical pieces . The satirical edge mostly vanished , as the tremendous calm landscape of Orkney , his adopted home , and his increasing immersion in the classical tradition of music brought a kind of peace . The anger still blazed up occasionally , but it had turned political . In the 1970s he wrote a satirical Yellow Cake Review , aimed at the uranium mining companies who were all set to invade Orkney , and in my last interview with him he raged against the Iraq War , a topic which he wove into the 9th Symphony .  Brilliant and disturbing though the expressionist and satirical pieces are , the heart of Peter Maxwell Davies 's music for me lies in those radiant works at the same time . You catch that quality in earlier works like the 2nd Taverner Fantasia , inspired by the music of the great Tudor composer John Tavener , and in the best of the symphonies .  In the later works , the harsh and beautiful landscape of Orkney shines through the austere play of lines , an influence Maxwell Davies himself pointed out .  This feeling for landscape shows that though Maxwell Davies may have started off as a European modernist in the making , the composer who eventually emerged was actually very English . He was English in other ways too . Like Richard Hoggart and David Hockney , he was a lower-middle-class Northern boy made good . That 's why he was so determined to pass on the values of high culture to the next generation . He knew their worth , because he 'd had to fight so hard to win them for himself . That gave him an authority which is all too rare in cultural life nowadays ; which is another reason to mourn his passing .