Revealed: What Manchester City boss Manuel Pellegrini told his ...
http://www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/revealed-what-manchester-city-boss-11037283

Manuel Pellegrini had a straight-talking message for his troops as they prepare to face Dynamo Kiev in the second leg of the knockout clash .  Get Manchester City FC news by email  Invalid e-mailThanks for subscribing ! Could not subscribe , try again later  Manuel Pellegrini said there would be no let-up from Manchester City when they face Dynamo Kiev tomorrow night , despite their 3-1 lead from the first leg .  The Blues boss refuted the idea that he might be tempted to rest players ahead of the Manchester derby on Sunday , after confirming that Yaya Toure is available after missing the weekend draw at Norwich with a foot injury .  And he has been at pains to impress on his squad that there is no room for complacency against the Ukrainian champions .  " I talked to the squad yesterday and today , and said we are starting tomorrow at 0-0 and to trying to beat Kiev at home , " he said .  " That way of thinking is the opposite . We have a strong not yet in the next stage . The first target is to go through . After that we play in the next stage . We need to play well if we want to go through . "  Joe Hart made the point that City may have caught Kiev suffering from ring rust when they chalked up that first leg lead on a snowy night in Ukraine , so they have to be on their toes .  Our newspapers include the flagship Manchester Evening News - Britain 's largest circulating regional daily with up to 130,485 copies - as well as 20 local weekly titles across Greater Manchester , Cheshire and Lancashire .  Free morning newspaper , The Metro , published every weekday , is also part of our portfolio , delivering more than 200,000 readers in Greater Manchester .  Greater Manchester Business Week is the region 's number one provider of business news andfeatures , targeting a bespoke business audience with 12,687 copies every Thursday .  Every month , M.E.N . Media 's print products reach 2.2 million adults , spanning from Accrington in the north @ @ @ @ @ @