Selfless North Shields boy gets birthday wish of helping cancer ...
http://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/selfless-north-shields-boy-gets-11036066

tai kendall , 10 , lost four great-grandparents to cancer in just six months - but now he 's turning his grief into generosity to help others  get daily news by email  the live event you are trying to watch is either unavailable or has not started  generous tai kendall has converted his grief into greatness - by turning down the chance of an 11th birthday party to instead go on a once-in-a-lifetime bike ride .  tai lost all four of his great-grandparents in six months , three of them to cancer . while they were ill , the youngster saw nurses from macmillan cancer support at work , supporting not only the patients but their families as well .  and to give something back , tai is to ride his bike from edinburgh to northumberland square in north shields , his home town , to raise cash for the charity .  his mother becky , 28 , was astounded by her son 's selfless gesture and said it came as a complete shock to both her and her husband . chatting away and we asked tai what kind of party he would like for his birthday in august , " she said .  tai kendall of north shields who will be doing a charity bike ride from edinburgh  " we were shocked when he came back and said ' i have everything i need , so i would like to give back to macmillan and ride my bike from edinburgh to home to make money for them to help them make people better .  " it 's overwhelming . i do n't think he understands how hard it 's going to be , but he 's proper determined to do it - he just wants to raise as much as he can . "  the longest tai has ridden a bike for so far is 10 miles . he currently has a bmx bike , but the family are hoping to get him a proper road bike and equipment for his journey , which will be almost 100 miles over two days .  though they have tried to get local businesses on board to sponsor tai , so far they have struggled for help .  the st cuthbert 's pupil had an opportunity to meet the north tyneside mayor , norma redfearn , recently and used it to tell her about his ride , and she agreed to let him use northumberland square as his finish line .  tai kendall of north shields who will be doing a charity bike ride from edinburgh . pictured with his dad danny kendall  tai will start training for the ride next month . he will complete it with his dad , danny , and danny 's friend darren jones , in august .  danny said the training will steadily increase to 40-mile bike rides , though he is set to deploy with the navy soon , so it will be his friend darren who plays the biggest role in preparing tai .  " i 'm very proud of him , " said danny .  " for an 11-year-old to say he does n't want anything for his birthday , all he wants to do is raise money for macmillan , is something he should " i 'm going to train really hard and try to do loads of stuff for charity and help people who have cancer . "