Mystery pensioner found dead on hillside in middle of nowhere 'died ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/crime/saddleworth-moor-pensioner-death-poisoning-strychnine-a6930311.html

mystery pensioner found dead on hillside in middle of nowhere ' died from poisoning '  a mystery man at manchester piccadilly station , and who was later found dead at a remote moorland beauty spot greater manchester police  a mystery man found dead on moorland had suffered strychnine poisoning .  the pensioner was discovered at a beauty spot near oldham in december with no signs of a struggle or fall and detectives are still unable to identify him .  the white man aged between 65 and 75 , was found fully clothed by a cyclist on december 12 near a hill known as the indian 's head , an outcrop near the top of dovestone reservoir .  theories have included the pensioner suffering a serious illness and needing to " get some peace " at the beauty spot , or having a connection to a 1949 plane crash near where he was found .  twenty four people were killed in the accident but two children survived - two-year-old michael prestwich who died 10 years later , and five-year-old stephen evans . strychnine in his system - a highly toxic substance used in rat poison .  the mystery man arrived at ealing broadway in london just after 9am on december 11 . he is next picked up by cctv at 9.50am at euston buying an ? 81 return ticket to manchester piccadilly in cash , arriving at 12.07pm .  on arrival he spent 53 minutes wandering around the train station before heading into manchester city centre .  the next sighting is at the clarence pub in greenfield , saddleworth , where he asked the landlord how he got to the top of the hill , but he was not wearing walking clothes . he had a " northern " but not local accent .  later that day around 4.30pm , in darkness , a motorist spotted him near to where he was found the day after , around three quarters of the way up to the top of the hill .  when he was found he had three train tickets , including a return to london euston , and ? 130 in ? 10 notes in his pocket police describe him as white , of slim build , with a receding hairline with grey hair to the side and back . he had a large nose which may have been previously broken , and was clean shaven .