Up to half of people killed by US police are disabled
http://www.theguardian.com/society/2016/mar/29/media-must-report-police-violence-towards-disabled-people

not only are the total numbers of police-involved deaths in the us appalling -- 1,134 in 2015 alone -- the final tally for the year highlighted once again the shockingly disproportionate number of african americans affected , as was exposed by a guardian investigation , the counted . young black men aged between 15 and 34 accounted for 15% of all deaths logged ( five times higher than for their white counterparts ) , despite being just 2% of the population .  there is another , much less well-documented feature of police brutality and violence : the prevalence of disabled people and , in particular , those with mental difficulties , who are victims .  raising public awareness is vital to build pressure for change on this link between police aggression and disability  the report , compiled by david m perry , a professor of history at dominican university in illinois , and long-time disability rights activist lawrence carter-long , makes use of available data ( there are no official , comprehensive statistics collected on police-based violence and disability at local , state or the media to shine a light on the problem .  after examining coverage over the past three years , perry and carter-long say it is shocking that the prevalence of disability is not being accurately , or commonly , reported . " media coverage of police violence fails to recognise or report the disability element when americans are injured or killed by law enforcement , resulting in their stories being segregated from the issue in the media , " they conclude .  raising public awareness is vital to build pressure for change , and this is urgently needed in demonstrating the links between police aggression and disability . we know from campaigning work in the uk and the us that encountering the police or criminal justice system can be an extremely traumatic , confusing and , at worst , deadly experience for someone with a serious mental health problem or with intellectual disabilities .  for example , if a person 's ability to communicate is significantly impaired , be it by psychosis , autism or dementia , and responding officers are ill-equipped to identify or adequately engage with .  in both countries -- despite a number of positive initiatives , including the crisis care concordat in britain , attempts to improve police training as well as the introduction in some places of " street triage " , where health professionals accompany police on calls -- the injury and death of vulnerable citizens after being restrained has been an enduring and shameful occurrence .  as the rudderman report says , it is beholden on police and policymakers in the us to fully track what is happening and develop effective , long-term responses .  in britain , the national appropriate adult network has repeatedly stressed that vulnerable people throughout the justice system , including the courts , need to have their welfare and rights better protected .  there is an indisputable onus on those with the power to protect vulnerable people from abuse and violence , wherever it is perpetrated , to take action . however , the media have to play their part too by exposing when and how the system betrays them . if we do n't , as perry said when the rudderman paper from tragedies , identify patterns , and implement necessary reforms " .  mary o'hara writes on social affairs and is author of austerity bites . she currently lives in the us