NUS president Malia Bouattia says accusations of anti-semitism and ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/student/news/nus-president-malia-bouattia-says-accusations-of-anti-semitism-and-isis-support-simply-not-true-a6998986.html

Read more  In a piece for Guardian on Sunday , Bouattia said anti-Semitic prejudice is " despicable " and revealed she has received rape and death threats since her election as NUS black students ' officer two years ago , forcing her to involve the police for her parents ' protection .  Ms Bouattia wrote : " Instead of celebrating and publicising this incredible landmark my election , the media coverage has been cluttered with stories calling me a racist , an anti-semite , an Islamic State sympathiser and more . "  " The truth is , as those who know me well understand , I 've always been a strong campaigner against racism and fascism in all its forms .  " Some may not agree with my politics and ideologies , but I do believe the student movement has a shared goal : to liberate education , creating and supporting access and opportunity for all . This is what I intend to focus on . "  The top 10 universities in the UK  The top 10 universities in the UK . University of Cambridge  3/10 3 . Imperial College London  4/10 4 . University College London  5/10 5 . London School of Economics and Political Science  6/10 6 . University of Edinburgh  7/10 7 . King 's College London  8/10 8 . University of Manchester  9/10 9 . University of Bristol  10/10 10 . Durham University  The main controversy surrounded Bouattia 's campaign was over past comments describing the University of Birmingham -- with its large Jewish community -- as " something of a Zionist outpost " and separate claims about " Zionist-led media outlets " .  More than 300 heads of student Jewish societies and protesters previously issued Ms Bouattia with an open letter , asking her why she referred to the University of Birmingham as " something of a Zionist outpost in British higher education " in a 2011 article .  The Cambridge students said they have also taken issue with the fact that , at an event in 2014 , Ms Bouattia - as NUS 's black students ' officer - claimed a " Zionist-led media " gave support to " resistance , " an alleged reference to the " violent form " .  In the article , Ms Bouattia says there is a difference between Zionism , religion and ethnicity and made clear her condemnation of Isis .  She wrote : " There is no place for antisemitism in the student movement , or in society . If any of my previous discourse has been interpreted otherwise , such as comments I once made about Zionism within the media , I will revise it to ensure there is no room for confusion . "  " I was not talking about the media as a whole , or repeating despicable antisemitic prejudice . "  " Yet newspaper reports this week still depict me as a young Muslim who supports Isis . This is simply not true . "