OnePlus 3 Launch May 2016: Multiple Display Sizes, 6GB of RAM + ...
http://www.knowyourmobile.com/mobile-phones/oneplus-3/23398/oneplus-3-release-date-specs-price-features-launch-may-2016

oneplus ' third handset emerges as the ... oneplus 3 !  the oneplus 2 has been out a little while now , long enough that oneplus has actually terminated the invite-only sales model for the device , meaning anyone can cruise over to the oneplus webstore and buy one straight up . that can pretty much only mean one thing - a successor is already in the works for launch inside 2016 - but then , given the way we know the smartphone industry works and how in-advance development cycles are , this is hardly suprising news .  in the meantime , oneplus has reduced the cost of its oneplus 2 handset to $349 -- and it is staying that way forever . here 's what the company had to say about the price reduction on its official blog :  " we learned a lot from our first flagship phone . the invite system helped get the oneplus 2 off the ground , and now thanks to both timing and scale , our operations have sized up to the goldilocks principle of just right in celebrating the fruits of our labor ? the oneplus 2 now has a price modification of $349 , forever . if you 've ever needed to give a friend another reason to join team oneplus , here you go . "  the company also released the oneplus x earlier in 2015 and that handset , while nowhere near as compelling as the oneplus 2 , is still generating quite a bit of interest from consumers . the oneplus 2 flagship was not without its detractors , however , following the company 's decision not to include nfc , a fingerprint scanner or a qhd panel on the front of the device .  the oneplus 3 , like every other flagship before it from the chinese upstart , will almost certainly be released inside the company 's now infamous invite-only purchasing program , whereby users have to first get an invite before they can buy an actual phone from oneplus . this process cuts out networks and retailers and allows the company to exercise better control of the handset 's production process , rather just building a few million area -- well , two actually -- oneplus could score an easy win is to do with nfc and qhd display panels . i 'm not too fussed about nfc , though i know a lot of people would like to see it included . for that reason and that reason alone , oneplus should include it on the oneplus 3 . ditto type-c usb for charging . yes , i know it 's a bit annoying at present but it will become a lot more common in 2016/7 , so it is best to be prepared .  the handset will likely feature 3gb of ram and qualcomm 's soon-to-be-unleashed snapdragon 820 cpu . beyond this we 'd expect to see some big improvements to imaging and battery performance , likely a larger cell , as well as the introduction of a qhd display panel , another key spec missing from last year 's oneplus 2 .  oneplus 3 release date  february 25 sees some more details emerge - this time we have oneplus co-founder carl pei talking to cnet about the forthcoming flagship , saying that it the report . pei said that the phone will feature a " new design " which he hopes will " captivate " consumers as much as the original oneplus one . it would appear that although the oneplus 2 was more feature-rich and sold better than the oneplus one , oneplus feels that on the design front it lost some of the charm compared to the debut model .  first benchmarks for oneplus 3 land  the oneplus 3 is expected to get official in may with a release date following in the weeks after . up to now details about 2016 's " flagship killer " have been pretty thin on the ground but as is often the case in the run up to a launch , leaks are starting to occur -- leaks like benchmarks which detail the specs of the handset .  according to recent gfx and geekbench test results , the oneplus 3 will have a qualcomm snapdragon 820 processor , 4gb or 6gb of ram , 64gb of storage , a 16-megapixel camera , an 8-megapixel front camera and nfc support . in addition of oxygen os .  the chassis of the handset is expected to be constructed from metals and feature a fingerprint scanner as standard . furthermore , oneplus many retail the oneplus 3 with different screen sizes : 5-inch , 5.2-inch and 5.5-inch options have been named in benchmarks and reports . if true , this would be the biggest and most complex launch the company has ever undertaken , proving , if successful , that it is now one of the big dogs in the phone space .  why the handset will feature up to 6gb of ram is anybody 's guess . kym has speculated that this mount of ram could have something to do with an android n/chrome os cross-over initiative that we 'll see announced later on in 2016 . or , it could just be because they can -- android has always been all about the specs . either way , the oneplus 3 is shaping up to be quite a beast . let 's just hope oneplus manages to keep the price in line with expectations .  oneplus 3 design  oneplus is kind of its thing ; the whole transparency and openess with its own community of fans via social media and its own forum line . that 's worked very well in the past for generating plenty of interest in its devices . sometimes though , leaksters still beat oneplus to the punch and reveal a new handset before the firm is necessarily ready to say " hey , look what we 're working on " . and on that note , images have now appeared online showing 3d renders of the next-gen device .  the leak comes via mobile dad , and the images appear to show a brushed metal back panel design which may or may not be part of a unibody . if so , this would be a departure from oneplus ' design conventions for the flagship so far , which have previously involved interchangeable back panels in a variety of materials , including kevlar , denim , and wood . that said , using a metal panel at all is also departure as we have n't seen this until now . it 's also worth noting to showcase the firm 's premium design , placing this as a higher priority over even the specs - but even that device used glass or ceramic ( depending on which variant you opted for ) rather than a largely metal build .  meanwhile , on the front there is no longer a fingerprint scanner and instead we have a front-facing speaker grille which may provide stereo sound similar to htc 's boomsound setup , though this is merely speculation . the source for the images also claims the handset will feature a qualcomm snapdragon 820 chip and a 1080p display - although we 've no idea of the size of the handset or the display diagonal . there 's also no word on ram or any other specs , including the camera .  as of february 18 , a video has leaked showcasing the oneplus 3 's design and a few of its features . timesnews reports having received a tip from an unnamed source with videos and images of the new device . a photo included shows the handset in the flesh , but the video and 's claimed these are ' official ' images that have been unearthed early and are not made by third party 3d artists .  the design seems to have changed a bit , with a curvier shape featuring a metal frame and what looks like a brushed metal back panel , and it seems to have a fingerprint scanner . the report estimates it has a 5.5in display and there is some indication we might see a type-c usb port .  " the rumored specifications of the device includes a 5.5-inch 1080p display with corning gorilla glass 4 protection and is expected to be powered by a qualcomm snapdragon 820 processor . it will have two variants : 4gb ram and 16gb inbuilt storage and 5gb ram with 64gb inbuilt storage . it is expected to run on android 6.0 marshmallow based oxygen os out of the box . "