The son of a survivor who became a Royal portraitist
http://www.jewishnews.co.uk/the-son-of-a-survivor-who-became-a-royal-portraitist/

The son of a survivor who became a Royal portraitist  As a matter of protocol , the Queen never comments publicly on any of her official portraits . For some artists this could be a blessing , as during her 63-year reign there have been many commissioned likenesses that were less than complimentary , the most notable by the late Lucian Freud , whose miserable depiction of the monarch in miniature divided public opinion in 2001 .  The Queen as ever was silent on the matter , though it is hard to imagine her suppressing her emotions when she first saw the 9ft x 11ft portrait by Australian-Jewish artist Ralph Heimans which was commissioned for the Diamond Jubilee in 2012 . As he was commissioned shortly afterwards to do a drawing for the Royal Collection , Heimans knew he had hit the mark and Elizabeth II 's tacit approval was confirmed when the Dean of Westminster Abbey purchased the painting , which will be the centrepiece in the new Queen 's Diamond Jubilee Galleries .  Heimans in his studio : His meeting with the a tie ' .  Set to open in 2018 , the abbey 's medieval triforium has been hidden to the public for more than 700 years and as well as offering visitors a rare view of the Palace of Westminster , there will be treasures and collections from the abbey 's 1,000-year history . Now Heimans ' painting officially titled The Coronation Theatre , Westminster Abbey : A Portrait of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II , will be part of that history , a mighty achievement for the 46-year-old son of a Holocaust survivor from Sydney 's North Shore .  Four years on and with all media attention focused on the Queen 's 90th birthday last week , Heimans , who now lives permanently in London with his wife Tami and daughters Ellie Rose , five , and Hannah , four , ca n't help but reflect think on his own surreal meeting at Buckingham Palace for the paint job of the decade .  " Who could forget being at the palace watching the Queen advance down a long corridor , attended by footmen and wearing the Robe Heimans , recalling his big moment in exalted company . " I only had one hour with her in the Yellow Drawing Room , which is where she always poses . As time was so short , I took photographs of her instead of sketching . I also described to her the reflective mood I wanted the painting to convey and told her that I wanted the setting to be Westminster Abbey because of the historical significance and with her standing on the 13th-century Cosmati Pavement as she and all her ancestors did for their coronations . "  A detail of the Queen 's portrait  With a career in portraiture spanning 29 years , Heimans knows when his subject is relaxed and approving of his concept and this was the case with the Queen , whom he describes as a " fantastic sitter " . Interestingly , Heimans , who was suited and booted for his encounter ( " the only time I 've ever worn a tie " ) was told to say ' May I take control now ma'am ' once the Queen was in situ , with royalty , he let Her Majesty lead .  " She did , however , stand for 10 minutes wearing the Robe of State which is remarkable considering its weight and she understood all I hoped to achieve , " adds Heimans , who understandably knew a great deal more about the Queen 's family than she did about his . Given more time over the cucumber sandwiches , he reckons he might have told her about his mother Josette fleeing from Lebanon in 1956 ahead of the civil war , when anti-Jewish hostilities were at their height , or talked about his father Frank , who was born while his parents were in hiding in Holland under Nazi occupation .  Howard Jacobson : ' This guy 's face is fascinating '  " Unlike so many of our other family members who were taken to the camps , my grandparents were protected by a Catholic brother and sister in the small village of Tilbury who saved their lives and which enabled them to leave after liberation , " says Heimans . " Resettled in Australia in 1955 , Jewish history , which led him to make a film in ' 86 about Theresienstadt called Paradise Camp . "  Though he is a traditionalist only when it comes to his painting , Heimans ' faith is very important to him and the high holy days are honoured , though it is his love of conceptual themes that led him in his early years to paint the portrait of an Auschwitz survivor . Capturing the very essence of his many subjects in the surrounds of their life story has made Heimans a sought-after portraitist in his homeland where he was awarded the Order of Australia MOA , but living in Herne Hill now has also boosted his UK commissions , some of them Jewish related .  Howard Jacobson is one and in a style reminiscent of the great Dutch masters , Heimans painted the author 's portrait ahead of the release of his book Shylock is My Name . " The moment I met him I thought ' I must paint this guy because his face is fascinating ' , " says Heimans , who has gone on to in prose to mark the 400th anniversary of the Bard 's death this month . Jewish authors Tracy Chevalier ( Girl With The Pearl Earring ) and Gillian Flynn ( Gone Girl ) are among the subjects who are on show and with brush still in hand Heimans is now capturing Shakespearean actors Dame Judi Dench and Sir Ben Kingsley .  Time spent with any of them can never compare with 60 minutes with the Queen , but Heimans ' memory is preserved forever on canvas .