Gateway scheme a "mess" as councillors raise concern about lack of ...
http://www.oxfordtimes.co.uk/news/14469281.Gateway_scheme_a__quot_mess_quot__as_councillors_raise_concern_about_lack_of_progress/

Didcot Gateway scheme a " mess " as councillors raise concern about lack of progress  COUNCILLORS say they are furious about the lack of progress over the ? 60m redevelopment of Didcot 's " gateway " and fear the site will deteriorate further unless action is taken .  The scheme planned for land opposite Didcot Parkway station , which includes a hotel , 300 homes , a decked car park for the train station and a nursery , was granted outline planning application this year .  But two months on South Oxfordshire District Council ( SODC ) , which owns the land , has yet to confirm a developer for the scheme or a company to run the eight-storey hotel .  Town and district councillor Margaret Davies said she was very concerned about the scheme 's lack of progress .  She said : " It is not turning out the way anybody would want it to - this is a lose-lose scheme at present .  " If nobody is coming forward to spruce it up I am very concerned that this .  " They have granted outline planning permission and now they are waiting for a developer -- one would have thought these conversations would have been taking place for quite some time . "  Mrs Davies warned that having the deteriorating site opposite the main entrance to the town was not good for Didcot 's image .  She said : " To have this mess immediately outside the railway station is not the best introduction to the town .  " I am really concerned that if they have not got to a better stage , having not identified a developer to take it forward , this will just collapse . "  The future of the Prince of Wales pub next to the site also hangs in the balance after it was not included in the redevelopment plans .  A Greene King spokesman said : " This planning application was submitted without any formal agreement between ourselves and the council .  " The Prince of Wales is a popular and well-loved pub in the community and a landmark historic building . We do not wish the business . "  Deputy town council leader Bill Service said he was concerned that if the district council did not find a hotel company to take on the plans , there would be high-rise accommodation instead .  He said : " We have had nothing come from South Oxfordshire District Council .  " The last I heard they could not get a hotel company to take up the challenge .  " It is my own personal view that if they can not get a hotel company to come in then I think they will put high-rise accommodation on there .  " If you look at all the other buildings in the town , there is nothing higher than four storeys . "  Dissatisfied residents in the town have already formed campaign group Gateway Aware to change details on the application which they feel would overshadow their homes .  South Oxfordshire District Council leader John Cotton , said : " It is going to be a while before we have anything .  " There is a lot of stuff going on at the one of a number of important schemes .  " Nothing is going to happen in the next couple of weeks but in the summer we will have some more detail then . "  Promoted stories  Comments  Usual SODC mess . The Town Council should have been fully involved and their view considered as part of any major redevelopment . What a shambles . But then what do you expect form a District Council that does not even bother to talk to the Town Council before submitting an application for Didcot to be a Garden City !  The sooner SODC is abolished and things like this are coordinated at a County level with the Town/Parish councils the better . SODC are just an unnecessary costly layer of local government we do not need .  Usual SODC mess . The Town Council should have been fully involved and their view considered as part of any major redevelopment . What a shambles . But then what do you expect form a District Council that does not even bother to talk to the Town Council before submitting an application SODC is abolished and things like this are coordinated at a County level with the Town/Parish councils the better . SODC are just an unnecessary costly layer of local government we do not need.Thinkingoutloud  Usual SODC mess . The Town Council should have been fully involved and their view considered as part of any major redevelopment . What a shambles . But then what do you expect form a District Council that does not even bother to talk to the Town Council before submitting an application for Didcot to be a Garden City !  The sooner SODC is abolished and things like this are coordinated at a County level with the Town/Parish councils the better . SODC are just an unnecessary costly layer of local government we do not need .  Score : 5  andy1975 9:51am Wed 4 May 16  I 'm still trying to comprehend how plans for a completely over the top 8-storey hotel are included when no hotel company actually wants one there . If there was the demand for it then you could accept it , but how does it get to research ?  I 'm still trying to comprehend how plans for a completely over the top 8-storey hotel are included when no hotel company actually wants one there . If there was the demand for it then you could accept it , but how does it get to this stage of the planning without that kind of basic research ? andy1975  I 'm still trying to comprehend how plans for a completely over the top 8-storey hotel are included when no hotel company actually wants one there . If there was the demand for it then you could accept it , but how does it get to this stage of the planning without that kind of basic research ?  Score : 4  Andrew:Oxford andy19751:00pm Wed 4 May 16  Eight storey is hardly " over the top " , the more storeys the better when it comes to a hotel as you get economies of scale - it costs little more to have a pair of lifts servicing 210 rooms over 8 floors as it does to a pair of lifts servicing 60 rooms over 3 . n't worry too much about the the operations of the hotel either . No hotel operator or hotel brand is going to be interested until the developer is firmed up either .  There will be no shortage of customers to fill the rooms when it is complete - with a huge number of employers nearby and from just 12 minutes by train to Oxford - it 'll be a busy one .  Eight storey is hardly " over the top " , the more storeys the better when it comes to a hotel as you get economies of scale - it costs little more to have a pair of lifts servicing 210 rooms over 8 floors as it does to a pair of lifts servicing 60 rooms over 3 . Similar with kitchens , reception staff etc . Do n't worry too much about the the operations of the hotel either . No hotel operator or hotel brand is going to be interested until the developer is firmed up either . There will be no shortage of customers to fill the rooms when it is complete - with a by train to Oxford - it 'll be a busy one.Andrew:Oxford  Eight storey is hardly " over the top " , the more storeys the better when it comes to a hotel as you get economies of scale - it costs little more to have a pair of lifts servicing 210 rooms over 8 floors as it does to a pair of lifts servicing 60 rooms over 3 . Similar with kitchens , reception staff etc .  Do n't worry too much about the the operations of the hotel either . No hotel operator or hotel brand is going to be interested until the developer is firmed up either .  There will be no shortage of customers to fill the rooms when it is complete - with a huge number of employers nearby and from just 12 minutes by train to Oxford - it 'll be a busy one .  Score : 0  andy1975 Andrew:Oxford2:22pm Wed 4 May 16  8 stories is over the top for the area in question given that none of the surrounding buildings are of anything like that height . It already planned at the Milton interchange .  8 stories is over the top for the area in question given that none of the surrounding buildings are of anything like that height . It 's also over the top because a big hotel is already planned at the Milton interchange.andy1975  8 stories is over the top for the area in question given that none of the surrounding buildings are of anything like that height . It 's also over the top because a big hotel is already planned at the Milton interchange .  Score : 1  7squatcat andy197510:10pm Wed 4 May 16  Who would ever want to stay at Milton Interchange ? If prostitution was legal in the UK they would build a massive brothel at Milton Gate and it would fit right in .  Who would ever want to stay at Milton Interchange ? If prostitution was legal in the UK they would build a massive brothel at Milton Gate and it would fit right in.7squatcat  Who would ever want to stay at Milton Interchange ? If prostitution was legal in the UK they would fit right in .  Score : 0  7squatcat 8:19pm Wed 4 May 16  It must be really embarrassing for Bill Service that his party has made such a mess . The district council is 33/36 seats Tory . Is " making a mess " official party policy ?  Regeneration and Housing Initiatives in Didcot were discussed at the Council meeting in April and Bill Service was absent . If you check the attendance record he was absent 50% of the time in the past 12 months . Perhaps he was spending too much time looking annoyed in Herald photo shoots .  Last edited : 8:19pm Wed 4 May 16  It must be really embarrassing for Bill Service that his party has made such a mess . The district council is 33/36 seats Tory . Is " making a mess " official party policy ? Regeneration and Housing Initiatives in Didcot were discussed at the Council meeting in April and Bill Service was absent . If you check the attendance record he was absent 50% of the time in the past 12 months . Perhaps photo shoots.7squatcat  It must be really embarrassing for Bill Service that his party has made such a mess . The district council is 33/36 seats Tory . Is " making a mess " official party policy ?  Regeneration and Housing Initiatives in Didcot were discussed at the Council meeting in April and Bill Service was absent . If you check the attendance record he was absent 50% of the time in the past 12 months . Perhaps he was spending too much time looking annoyed in Herald photo shoots .  Ipsoregulated  This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here