Yesterday was one of the worst days of my life
http://blogs.spectator.co.uk/2016/05/yesterday-was-one-of-the-worst-day-of-my-life/

yesterday was one of the worst days of my life  share this  when i got an email from the evening standard 's education correspondent at 06.29am yesterday i had no idea that my life was about to turn to shit . she had just read an interview i 'd done for a magazine called schools week in which , among other things , i said that i was standing down as chief executive of the group of free schools i 've helped set up . she wanted to talk to me about why i 'd made this decision .  at that point , i made a terrible mistake . i asked if i could send her an email explaining why i was stepping down rather than talk to her in person . the reason for this is that i 'm in the midst of a terrible bout of summer flu . so i dashed off a quick email  it became clear just how stupid that was when i noticed that i 'd started trending on twitter at around noon . most of the the journalist who 'd contacted me , headlined : ' toby young : running free school was harder than i thought . ' the opening paragraph read : " toby young today admitted running a free school is more difficult than he thought as he prepares to step down as ceo of the west london free school trust . "  i gawped at this with horror . at no point had i said , either in my email or in the schools week interview , that " running a free school " was " harder than i thought " . critics of free schools often claim that amateurs like me are n't qualified to " run " schools and my response has always been that the people who set up free schools are n't the people who run them , unless they happen to be experienced teachers . free schools , like nearly every other type of school , are run by headteachers . but the standard headline made it sound as if i was agreeing with the policy 's critics .  in the schools week interview , i said about teachers in the past and i also said that one of the lessons i 'd learnt is that high expectations and a traditional , knowledge-based curriculum are n't , by themselves , enough to make a good school . just as important is making sure you have the right leaders in place who share your vision .  however , i did n't in any way link these observations to my decision to stand down as chief executive . i was merely reflecting on some of the lessons i 'd learnt along the way . the standard piece gave the impression that i now regretted having bitten off more than i could chew and , having fallen flat on my face , i now wanted to hand over to a professional .  it got worse . the mirror published it 's own version of the story , headlined : ' toby young admits " running a school was harder than i thought " in extraordinary free schools climbdown . ' this was followed by the independent -- ' toby young admits " running a school was harder than ceo ' -- and the times : ' poster boy of free schools quits ' .  i began to tear my hair out -- or would have done if i had any . the standard 's misleading headline had now become a direct quote and all the follow-up stories made it sound as if i was confessing to gross incompetence .  in fact , the schools in our multi-academy trust are all a huge success , something i 'm immensely proud of . yes , making the schools work has been a challenge , but all the people involved in the trust , including the original group of " amateur " parent-founders , have overcome those challenges .  the secondary school , which opened in 2011 , was ranked ' good ' by ofsted in 2013 , and the west london free school primary , which opened in 2013 , was ranked ' outstanding ' last year . we now have excellent senior leaders across all the schools , as well as fantastic classroom teachers , and i 'm sure our first batch of results , which are and by " above average " i mean among the best in the country .  the reason i 'm stepping down as ceo -- i 'm not quitting , for heaven 's sake -- is because our trust is expanding , not contracting . our hope is to become a multi-academy trust containing 10-20 schools over the next 10 years and that requires a more seasoned chief executive than me who can commit to the job full-time . ( i do it three days a week . ) and i 'll stay on as a director and remain involved in the schools for years to come , not least because my daughter is at one of them and my other three children will soon follow .  the news stories were terrible , but the comments on twitter were something else . at one point , so many left-wing critics of free schools were crowing with satisfaction that i became one of the five most tweeted about subject in the uk . not bad on the day that results started pouring in from elections all over the country .  look forward to the day he falls into a pit of hungry bears wearing honey-and-fish cologne , " said a children 's author , while someone describing himself as an " artist/musician " said " i would enjoy punching his face to a pulp with no remorse " .  others took what they saw as my admission of failure as proof that entrusting rank amateurs with running schools ruined children 's lives : " too late for the thousands of children 's education he has screwed up , unforgivable . "  some conspiracy theorists , believing the headline quote to be accurate , accused me of choosing yesterday as a good day to bury bad news , along with nicky morgan , who announced her u-turn on academies in the midst of the local election results . if that was my plan , it had clearly backfired .  but the tweets that were hardest to take were those praising me for my honesty . " still though , nice of him to admit openly that the tories education policy is a total car-crash , " tweeted a man , according to his profile . another said : " much as i hate toby young , at least he had the decency to admit he was wrong . "  on and on it went , like some unfolding nightmare . i then got a call from channel 4 news asking if i 'd like to come on to talk about why i 'd had a change of heart about free schools . ( more gnashing of teeth . ) in spite of my hacking cough , i thought it might give me an opportunity to correct some of the misunderstandings that had sprung up throughout the day so i made my way to the studio .  i was on with a special needs teacher who is an ardent critic of free schools and academies and we were due to talk about morgan 's u-turn as well as my news . i thought it started out reasonably well , in which i explained that i was n't stepping down because i 'd decided the free schools policy was unworkable , but because the ones i 'd helped set up make much of an impression on john snow , the programme 's veteran presenter , because he then asked me if i thought the reason morgan had rowed back on turning all schools into academies was because of the failure of my schools .  i was stunned . so nothing to do with the rebellion against universal academisation gathering force on the tory backbenches , but just down to me and my supposed abandonment of the free schools policy ? this was n't exactly what i 'd had in mind by putting the record straight .  all in all , a truly terrible day . i do n't think the evening standard journalist intended to put a malevolent spin on the story -- and i 'm sure she did n't write the headline -- but the combination of the two created a frame for the news of my departure as ceo that was a gift to critics of the government 's education reforms .  for the past seven years , i 've been a passionate advocate of free schools and have painstakingly avoided saying or doing anything that critics . yet at a stroke , i 'd somehow undone all that work . i do n't doubt that for years to come , opponents of the policy will cite my " mea culpa " as exhibit a in the case for the prosecution .  what pains me the most is the thought of how all my fellow free school founders will react to these misleading reports . it 's still a relatively small world and i know many of them personally . again and again , i 've told them to keep the faith , to treat obstacles as reasons to try harder rather than give up , to stay true to their dreams . how will they respond when they read an article in the times saying i 've " quit " because i 've changed my mind about the free schools programme ? it makes me want to weep .  well , for the record , i have n't quit . i 'm going to stay on as a director of the trust and will remain involved for many years to come . the schools . when i visit them , as i do almost every day , it warms my heart to see how effectively the children , staff and governors have brought the founders ' original vision to life . here are hundreds and hundreds of children from all backgrounds receiving the kind of education that 's usually reserved for the offspring of the privileged elite . helping to set these schools up has been the most rewarding experience of my professional life and i 'd recommend it to anyone . apart from the horrible , spite-filled critics , ready to pounce at the slightest opportunity . that bit is n't so nice , obviously .  if you 'd like to set up a free school , please contact the new schools network . or if you 'd like to apply for the job of ceo of the west london free school academy trust click here .