Review: Everybody Wants Some!! (15) Linklater hits it out of the park
http://www.dailystar.co.uk/movies/513707/Review-Everybody-Wants-Some-15

it took richard linklater 12 years to make the oscar-nominated movie boyhood .  so you can hardly blame him for playing fast and loose with his next film . over the course of three days in the autumn of 1980 , a hard-drinking , bong-smoking , skirt-chasing university baseball team awaits the first day of term .  this lot are far too busy having the time of their lives to stop and think about what it all means . this funny , brilliantly acted and wonderfully written romp lives up to its billing as " the spiritual sequel " to linklater 's 1970s-set high school movie dazed and confused .  it is another star-free , period drama that perfectly recreates the spirit of a year and the age of its characters .  the soundtrack and the production design are spot-on . the year 1980 , like student life , is all about transition . the clothes and the cars are still stuck in the 70s but electronica , hip-hop and glam metal are beginning to make their first inroads into radio playlists . of disco , but these fun-loving sportsmen are determined not to miss a beat .  but the biggest difference is the make-up of the gang . here , the girls barely get a look-in as linklater takes us into the baseball team 's frat house .  entertainment one  roll models : jake and willoughby kicking back  " the sun may be setting on the last days of disco , but these fun-loving sportsmen are determined not to miss a beat . "  jocks rarely get a fair crack of the whip in the movies but here the boys are allowed to be boys without any snarky commentary .  dazed and confused was made by a young director with an ear tuned to the rhythms of the high school canteen . here a generous 55-year-old turns a writer 's ear to a gang of young men .  the dialogue is witty and bracingly authentic . here friendships are forged at the bar and cemented through a democratic form of ritual humiliation .  the next lesson comes from the coach . apparently , there are no booze and no girlsin the bedrooms . it does n't take long before both of them are smashed out of the park .  as the gang prowls the town -- taking in discos , punk clubs and country and western bars -- we get to know the players . finn gets most of the speeches but stoner willoughby ( wyatt russell ) , lovestruck hick billy autry ( will brittain ) and blowhard niles ( juston street ) get their moments in the spotlight .  when jake meets drama student beverly ( zoey deutch ) , we get the early stirrings of romance . but for the most part , we just hang out with this likeable bunch as they booze and chat about sport and girls .  every player has arrived at the university as the star of their high school team . put them in a room together and everything -- sex , drinking , banter , dope-smoking -- quickly descends into some form of contest .  we 're nearly an hour-and-a- half in when we get to see them compete on the field fascinating but again the focus is more on the characters than the game .  it turns out only two of them have any ambition to make it as professional sportsmen . the rest are using their scholarship to fund a last hurrah before they face the sober world of work , mortgages and kids .  that fleeting sense of freedom is summed up in the film 's perfect final shot . " everybody wants some , " goes the van halen lyric . and these lads can fill their boots .