Is it time to remit the high fees of remittance transfers?
http://www.easier.com/133810-is-it-time-to-remit-the-high-fees-of-remittance-transfers.html

related categories  is it time to remit the high fees of remittance transfers ?  it 's no secret that the european and global market is generally slowing , and has been for some time . if the uk were to leave the eu , a knock-on effect is almost inevitable and several markets in the uk would be hindered . however , though the european market is abating , the remittance industry is evolving .  recently , farmers have insisted that if the uk were to leave the eu , food would not be cheaper , and the leader for britain 's farmers has expressed a desire for more migrant workers .  which suggests it 's a myth that migrant workers ' steal ' jobs from uk citizens . they bring a great deal of value to the uk , and european immigrants have paid more in taxes than they have received in benefits . in turn , this has helped to relieve the budgetary burden on uk-born workers and , financially , they have contributed a vast amount to the public services 20billion from 2001-2011 .  migrant workers are also prepared to receive lower wages in jobs that brits do n't necessarily want . in fact , immigrants who have arrived since 2000 are 43% less likely to claim state benefits or tax credits than natives . hence immigrants are prepared to work , and are notoriously hard working . this positive contribution to the uk economy can often be overlooked at the expense of negative press and nationalist ideologies .  the fractured ecosystem , globally , and in europe is concerning . furthermore , no two countries are the same , thus there is a difference in lifestyles . migrants working in the eu come from differing financial sectors where services differ from what they are familiar with .  as the migrant worker industry continues to populate , the remittance transfer volume also increases . consumers and businesses send money around the world on a daily basis , however , fees can sit at an extortionate level . numerous firms are exerting a stranglehold over the industry as they continue to charge huge fees on money sent to or half a trillion-dollar lifeline for countries in a tough economic climate .  fortunately for migrant workers , there are services such as transfergo whom provide a means to send money home in a cost effective way . both timely and straightforward , these services generally charge around ? 1 compared to banks , which charge an average transfer rate of ? 10 .  incredibly , a reduction on these remittance fees could save less economically developed countries and incredible ? 10billion per year , all while keeping the same standard of security that you 'd find using a bank .  remittances generate triple the total global aid budget and the value of transfers often overshadow the huge sectors of a country 's economy . romania , slovakia , czech republic , poland , and lithuania generate a lot of the remittance outflow whilst world bank statistics from 2012 indicate that india received the most in remittance fees from the uk , totaling ? 4.27billion .  that 's a lot of money , and people are suffering from losing a lot of that through the high fees involved likely to be paid by migrants , so is there not an argument the fees could be lowered ?