Poetry slam star will raise the roof for church in dire need of a new one
http://www.gazetteandherald.co.uk/news/14536954.Poetry_slam_star_will_raise_the_roof_for_church_in_dire_need_of_a_new_one/

poetry slam star will raise the roof for church in dire need of a new one  parishioners in great somerford are going all out to save their parish church roof with a major fundraising effort .  grade 1 listed st peter and st paul is in desperate need of a new roof and worshippers have been told it will not last another winter .  so they have organised a series of fundraisers in a bid to replace it , including a village bake off , and a poetry slam by edinburgh festival star henry baker , the sunshine kid .  churchwarden alison davies explained : " the estimate including professional fees is a little over ? 200,000 , of which we have raised nearly ? 85,000 since christmas from donations , sale of roof tiles , charitable trusts and events - no mean feat . "  but she stressed : " this contract needs to start in september because we have bats roosting in the roof , which need to be rehoused before they hibernate and because the roof will not stand grant applications which should provide the bulk of the shortfall . meantime we are all out to up the fund . "  among the programme of events in the next few days are a little gardens of great somerford , which includes a children 's trail . tickets cost ? 5 and are available from the church . the event runs from 2pm to 5.30pm .  on wednesday there is a coffee morning between 10.30am and noon at mount barn .  later that day youngest ever world poetry slam champion harry baker brings his edinburgh festival sell-out show to the church field at 7pm .  the following afternoon at 3pm there is tea with literati before the church fete on friday and the bake off on saturday . baking teams of up to eight people need to register by wednesday and the entry fee is ? 50 per team .  more events including a birthday party for the queen and a recital by top classical musician orlando jopling are planned for next week .  email **29;892;toolong for ticket details and visit **32;923;toolong for more information associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here