Firms turn out to support return of 180 Restaurant
http://www.portadowntimes.co.uk/news/local-news/firms-turn-out-to-support-return-of-180-restaurant-1-7412702

Firms turn out to support return of 180 Restaurant  The 180 Degrees Restaurant , which was on the brink of closure , served up afternoon tea for local businesses in a special event hosted by the Lord Mayor this week .  The ' spread ' of mini sandwiches and tray bakes was prepared by staff , most of them young people with learning difficulties .  Representatives from around 10 firms in the local food and drink sector demonstrated their continuing support for the charity-run eaterie by turning up at Wednesday 's event .  It was organised by the Mayor , Councillor Darryn Causby as part of the NI Year of Food and Drink , and to celebrate the work of charity Step by Step NI and 180 Degrees .  Those attending included Angus Wilson of Wilson 's County and Jane Harnett of Harnett Oils .  Fiona Rowan , chairperson of Step by Step , said the 180 Restaurant was not asking the local companies for money but support , either by offering students a work placement or providing mentoring and expertise providing quality food and drink , this restaurant is a shining example of how this borough is home to a caring , progressive community that provides opportunities for all . "  There was widespread dismay in March when the restaurant announced it was facing closure due to funding issues . Parents said it was " unique " and one of the few facilities locally to provide training for young people aged over 18 with learning difficulties .  The crisis led to a flurry of meetings with local politicians , MLAs , businesses and government ministers .  Ms Rowan said that although they had received no money what they had received was " an awful lot of support " and guidance in securing future funding .  She added , " We are applying for funding and are working with the council , the Southern Health and Social Care Trust ( SHSCT ) , the Social Enterprise Unit and Southern Regional College ( SRC ) .  " People are coming on board to offer assistance . Since all the publicity surrounding our possible closure , there is a I am a great believer in things happening for a reason . We will be much , much stronger for what we have gone through . "  The 180 Restaurant is also working with another charity to develop a new training programme which will enable more young people to access the training available in the Portadown initiative .  In the past five years , more than 100 young people have completing their training at the restaurant , where profits are reinvested to helping them gain qualifications in the hospitality industry .  This website and its associated newspaper adheres to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the Editor by clicking here .  If you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the IPSO by clicking here .  Portadown Times provides news , events and sport features from the Portadown area . For the best up to date information relating to Portadown and the surrounding areas visit us at Portadown Times regularly all the features of this website Portadown Times requires permission to use cookies .  Find Out More ?  What is a Cookie ?  What is a Flash Cookie ?  Can I opt out of receiving Cookies ?  About our Cookies  Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( Internet Explorer , Firefox , Chrome etc ) from a website you visit . They are stored on your electronic device .  This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player ( it is also called a Local Shared Object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  Yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  However , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  The types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  Revenue Science ?  A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Google Ads ?  Our sites contain advertising from Google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Digital Analytics ?  This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . This data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  Dart for Publishers ?  This comes from our ad serving have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  ComScore ?  ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  Local Targeting ?  Our Classified websites ( Photos , Motors , Jobs and Property Today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . These cookies store no personally identifiable information .  Grapeshot ?  We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  Subscriptions Online ?  Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you and enhance user experience .  Add This ?  Add This provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .