Sir Bruce Forsyth pulls out of wife's candle launch as his recovery ...
http://www.eveningtimes.co.uk/news/14536952.Sir_Bruce_Forsyth_pulls_out_of_wife_s_candle_launch_as_his_recovery_from_surgery_continues/

sir bruce forsyth pulls out of wife 's candle launch as his recovery from surgery continues  sir bruce forsyth has sparked fresh health fears by pulling out of his wife 's business launch due to " mobility issues " .  the 88-year-old entertainer will miss the launch of wilnelia 's candle range at london upmarket department store fortnum and mason on wednesday after also being too frail to attend the funeral of close friend ronnie corbett on april 18 .  sir bruce forsyth and his wife wilnelia last june ( dominic lipinski/pa )  sir bruce 's manager ian wilson said the former strictly come dancing host 's recovery was taking " longer than hoped " following keyhole surgery in november 2015 .  he told the press association : " if he were well enough to go or medically advised , he would be there , but we 're not at that point .  " he 's not going to do something that would endanger recuperation . "  sir bruce missed friend ronnie corbett 's funeral in april due to his in december last year that they hoped it would take " one or two months more for him to fully recover " from surgery to fix two aortic aneurysms discovered after a fall in his home in october .  ian said his continuing recovery was " not longer than expected , but longer than hoped " .  promoted stories  comments  commenting &amp; moderation  we moderate all comments on evening times on either a pre-moderated or post-moderated basis . if you 're a relatively new user then your comments will be reviewed before publication and if we know you well and trust you then your comments will be subject to moderation only if other users or the moderators believe you 've broken the rules  our colleagues  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here