Bubble trouble in France as Marseille's finest soapmakers in bitter ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/06/12/bubble-trouble-in-france-as-marseilles-finest-soapmakers-in-bitt/

With Chinese and Turkish soap flooding the market , manufacturers want the " savon de Marseille " to be granted a " geographical indication " label similar to those used to safeguard the names of French wines and cheeses .  But a dispute over how true Marseille soap is made has divided manufacturers into two rival camps , bitterly arguing over the definitive recipe for a product that has been made in the south of France for more than six centuries .  One group of soapmakers , led by the cosmetics giant , L'Occitane , wants to allow the use of additives and perfumes as well as the traditional ingredients -- Mediterranean sea water , vegetable oil and soda ash .  But the suggestion has got smaller , " craft " producers in a froth over what they see as " heresy " and a threat to their traditional method of heating the ingredients from scratch in huge cauldrons with no ready-made additives . The concoction is stirred for days and left to harden in a process that can take up to a month traditional expertise , " said Marie Bousquet-Fabre , great-grand-niece of the founder of the Marius Fabre soapworks . " We are true soap makers . We start with the raw material , vegetable oil , which we transform by heating it with soda ash in our cauldrons . "  A dispute over the " official " recipe for the region 's famed traditional soap , " savon de Marseille " , has producers in a frothCredit : AFP  The recipe was first officially recognised in 1688 during the reign of Louis XIV , the " Sun King " . It was originally made with local olive oil , but even many traditionalists now mix it with cheaper palm or copra oil .  Serge Bruna , head of the soap manufacturer La Licorne , said the " austere blocks of soap " advocated by traditionalists " are no longer what 90 per cent of consumers want " . Adding lavender oil gives the soap a perfume that " for many people has come to represent the essence of Marseille soap , " he said .  The traditionalists also Licorne variety that is shaped like a sardine , and they want production to be strictly limited to the Marseille area rather than allowed across southern France .  They have launched a petition that has gathered more than 120,000 signatures .  It is now up to the French Industrial Property Institute to rule on what constitutes " savon de Marseille " . The government hopes that protecting it with a " geographical indication " label will set a precedent for other typically Gallic products such as the Basque beret , Limoges porcelain or Laguiole knives .  But it will be difficult to reconcile the warring soap makers . An official inquiry has been launched but no decision is expected until September .