Police arrive to 'keep the peace' as Frances Bean Cobain moves ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3659108/Police-arrive-peace-Frances-Bean-Cobain-moves-belongings-home-shared-estranged-husband.html

police arrive to ' keep the peace ' as frances bean cobain moves belongings out of home she shared with estranged husband  frances bean cobain is moving her belongings out of the home she shared with her estranged husband isaiah silva , and cops are on hand to make sure nothing untoward happens .  lapd police offers were outside the west hollywood residence to prevent any physical violence breaking out between the parties , tmz reported friday .  cobain , 23 , was waiting on the street as a team of people removes her stuff .  tense situation : frances bean cobain , 23 , has got a police detail on watch as she gets her belongings removed from the home in west hollywood she shared with her estranged husband isaiah silva  the daughter of the late nirvana frontman kurt cobain and actress courtney love filed for divorce from silva in march after less than two years of marriage .  according to law enforcement sources , cops were called to the scene to ' keep the peace ' because of an month to get her property out of the house .  related articles  share this article  share  the former lovers wed in a secret ceremony in june 2014 after dating for several years .  in her divorce filing , cobain said the two had been together for five years and made it clear her husband was to have no claim to the money she has inherited from her father , estimated at about $450 million .  keeping watch : lapd police offers were outside the west hollywood residence to prevent any physical violence breaking out between the parties , tmz reported friday  keeping her distance : cobain , 23 , was waiting on the street as a team of people removes her stuff  standing by : patrol cars were spotted parked outside the apartment  she did say , however , that she would be willing to pay spousal support to silva .  after turning 18 in 2010 she inherited 37% of her father 's estate and was given all control over the licensing of his name and image . her father committed 1994 , in his seattle home .  cobain has become close to her mother in recent years after the two had some very public spats during her teenage years .  in 2009 , cobain was granted a restraining order against love and wendy o'connor , her paternal grandmother , and kimberly cobain , her father 's sister , were named as her co-guardians .  heir : the daughter of the late nirvana frontman kurt cobain and actress courtney love filed for divorce from silva in march after less than two years of marriage ( pictured march 21 )  keep off : in her divorce filing , cobain said the two had been together for five years and made it clear her husband was to have no claim to the money she has inherited from her father , estimated at about $450 million ( pictured in la on march 25 )  split : silva , 31 , is a musician and he and frances , the only child of kurt cobain and courtney love , wed in a secret ceremony in june 2014 . they 're pictured again : love , 51 , and her daughter recently reconciled after a series of very public spats between the two of them . they 're pictured together in london on march 16  famous offspring : frances bean inherited 37 percent of her late father 's estate when she turned 18 in 2010 along with licensing rights to his name and image . kurt cobain , pictured with his baby daughter , committed suicide in april 1994 at the age of 27