Plymouth charity welcomes small number of asylum seekers fleeing ...
http://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/plymouth-charity-welcomes-the-small-amount-of-asylum-seekers-fleeing-war-arriving-in-the-city/story-29441240-detail/story.html

although a number of pro-brexit campaigners may think the uk is being overrun by asylum seekers - pat joyce , team leader of dcrs , admits that it 's a very small number in the grand scheme of things , as well as comparing the uk to the rest of europe .  pat says : " many are saying the current refugee crisis is the biggest influx of people fleeing their homes since world war ii .  " there are roughly 65.3 million refugees and asylum seekers - but most of these people are still in the poorest places from around their home country .  " as soon as you label someone they lose their identity and this is something that we need to stop .  plymouth is the second largest dispersal city in the uk , behind bristol , meaning it is a city that has agreed to house and support asylum seekers waiting for refugee status .  once refugee status is granted the individuals are able to work and support their families - this process can often take months , huge turmoil when they arrive in the uk . first they will move between seven different cities before they arrive in a dispersal area .  dcrs will then start working with the individual , the majority are male between the ages of 18 and 30 , offering them support to buy food , clothing , access to english lessons and housing .  if refugee status is denied , the individual can end up homeless , with no money and very little hope - having to travel back to their country illegally .  last year alone , dcrs recorded more than 9,000 visits . since the charity was started in 1999 , they have received no local authority or government funding .  working with people from more than 46 countries , dcrs is a real hub of creativity , culture and hope . more than 5,000 interviews were conducted with individuals last year - working out about 29 per day .  john shinner , trustee for dcrs , says : " we had a lot of financial turbulence in 2015 but 2016 has been much calmer . number of projects for the first time .  dcrs work alongside the british red cross , who help travel the individuals to plymouth and support them as soon as they touch base in plymouth . the charity also works closely with start , students and refugees together , to gain access to housing .  pat says : " in one week we saw 255 service users . when the refugee crisis hit last year , we had more than 100 people get in touch to say they wanted to volunteer .  we have been taking asylum seekers from the home office for the last 15 years and start have been doing the same .  " we have an amazing set up in plymouth . we have a number of organisations who are all so strong in working together to provide what our service users need .  " we are all talking as a city and we want asylum seekers here . "  many of the people coming to plymouth have left family behind when they have fled from persecution .  the home office believe six months but pat does n't agree .  she says : " the home office state it will be decided within six months but we know that is not happening in plymouth . this can be mentally and physically straining on the individuals .  " many of the people we work with say that dcrs are giving them hope and energy and making them feel special .  " everyone has a right to seek asylum from persecution . they are just ordinary people facing extreme struggles . "  when the charity was first started as a small church community group , the majority or people were coming from iraq but over the years people are fleeing war in afghanistan , eritrea and sudan .  almost 15 per cent of the financial support the charity receives is from individuals who recognise the work dcrs are doing .  john believes that although have been huge strains on the charity - they will continue to do all they can for the people fleeing war in hope of a safer future .  the volunteer says : " the trying to claim asylum . the new legislations in may have again made things more difficult .  " there is a lot of confusion between what a migrant is , refugee and asylum seeker . the percentage of asylum seekers coming into england is so small . "