5 Reasons ZZ Top's Glastonbury Set Was Rock'n'Roll Gold
http://www.nme.com/blogs/festivals-blog/5-reasons-zz-tops-glastonbury-set-was-rocknroll-gold

5 reasons zz top 's glastonbury set was rock'n'roll gold  when it comes to rock legends , there are no bigger - or beardier - than zz top . forming a whopping 47 years ago , the texan trio are so relaxed about playing to tens of thousands of people on the pyramid stage that they 're practically horizontal . here are the five reasons why their friday afternoon set proved their status as guitar heroes .  the jewellery zz top love a bit of bling . billy gibbons and dusty hill and weighed down with so much jewellery it 's a wonder that they can actually play their guitars . they 've hefty skull rings on their fingers , chunky silver bangles and necklaces upon necklaces dangling around their throats . and they look good . sharp in fact . making their thundering trip through 1983 's ' sharp dressed man ' all the more spot-on .  the tunes zz top are not one of those bands you go to watch to let their brand new experimental direction wash over you . you the hits they provide . we get ' gim me all your lovin ' , ' la grange ' , the aforementioned ' sharp dressed man ' , ' legs ' , ' tush ' and a whole bunch of other songs containing thinly veiled references to women 's bottoms , as well as 1994 's ' pincushion ' , which features the immortal lyric " i 'm getting pricked around and punctureated/i let my ya ya down , i got penetrated " . excellent stuff . they also cover jimi hendrix 's ' foxy lady ' if you 're into that kind of thing , and the air-guitaring masses gathered here today very much are .  the synchronised guitar playing billy gibbons - he 's the one with the lighter shade of beard - and dusty hill 's synchronised guitar playing is a thing of beauty . they 've spent almost half a century perfecting their slick onstage trick and it 's a simple but oh so effective way of making them look ultra cool .  billy gibbons ' indistinguishable banter born in houston , texas , billy hear it in every gruff gurgle of his voice . half of the time his accent is so thick that it 's nigh on impossible to work out what he 's saying . " time to drink a little whisskaayyyyy , " he roars before ' chartreuse ' . rest assured the rest of the time he 's probably talking about butts . or booze . or both . the moment he lights up not a cigarette , but an actual cigar during the finale of ' tush ' , also warrants a mention .  the bearded keyboard zz top have beards . we all know this . well , all aside from their drummer , who in one of the great ironies of rock is called frank beard . zz top 's keyboard also has a beard . wheeled out for a rollicking version of ' la grange ' , dusty 's keys are draped in the kind of fluff that high street stores sometimes like to pop in the window when it 's christmas and pretend it 's snow . in zz top 's case , the fluff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @