Royal seal of approval for rail improvements
http://www.londonderrysentinel.co.uk/news/trending-ni/royal-seal-of-approval-for-rail-improvements-1-7452723

royal seal of approval for rail improvements  her majesty the queen and the duke of edinburgh arrive at hillsborough castle today ( monday ) . photo by aaron mccracken/harrisons  on the last stop of their two-day visit to the province , the queen and the duke of edinburgh breezed into bellarena railway station to give the recent improvement works on the londonderry to belfast line the royal seal of approval .  there was a small but enthusiastic welcome for the royal couple , who made the journey to bellarena from coleraine by steam train , having enjoyed a private reception and civic lunch at royal portrush golf club .  the train used for the royal visit was provided by the railway preservation society of ireland and the national museums northern ireland and was operated by northern ireland railways . it comprised of a steam locomotive no 85 merlin , which was on loan for the occasion , which was hauling five rpsi carriages . the no 85 merlin was one of five locomotives built by beyer peacock in manchester in 1932 for gnri journeys in the world , the queen and the duke of edinburgh were able to sit back in comfort and enjoy the picturesque panorama of castlerock , where the river bann enters the atlantic ocean between two stone and concrete breakwaters , downhill and mussenden temple and the lush countryside as they made their way to the quaint bellarena railway station .  the reason for the queen 's visit to the petite station was the completion of the extended platforms at bellarena in march , which was hailed as a milestone in the delivery of extensive engineering and improvement work on the londonderry line to belfast .  the first phase of the improvements was completed in march 2013 and the second phase started in 2015 and the completion of the works has secured the line 's continued operation for the future , enhance current levels of safety and reliability , and providing the capability for an hourly service to londonderry .  passenger numbers have increased by more than 10 per cent in the last year and the line now carries over two million passenger journeys each year . at george best city airport , where they were formally welcomed , before making the journey to hillsborough castle for audiences with the secretary of state theresa villiers , first minister arlene foster and the deputy first minister , martin mcguinness .  after a private evening together at the castle , the royal couple embarked on a busy day of engagements which began with an early visit to the giant 's causeway and tour of the causeway visitor centre , before travelling to bushmills , where the royal party attended an act of remembrance and the queen also unveiled a statue of robert quigg , vc , while the duke unveiled a vc commemorative paving stone .  the royal couple also met members of the quigg family . the bronze sculpture was unveiled to mark the centenary of the battle of the somme .  this website and its associated newspaper adheres to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the editor by clicking here .  can contact the ipso by clicking here .  londonderry sentinel provides news , events and sport features from the londonderry area . for the best up to date information relating to londonderry and the surrounding areas visit us at londonderry sentinel regularly or bookmark this page .  for you to enjoy all the features of this website londonderry sentinel requires permission to use cookies .  find out more ?  what is a cookie ?  what is a flash cookie ?  can i opt out of receiving cookies ?  about our cookies  cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( internet explorer , firefox , chrome etc ) from a website you visit . they are stored on your electronic device .  this is a type of cookie which is collected by adobe flash media player ( it is also called a local shared object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  yes there are a number of options available cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  however , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  the types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  revenue science ?  a tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  google ads ?  our sites contain advertising from google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . you can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . this data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  dart for publishers ?  this comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . this information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  comscore ?  comscore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  local targeting ?  our classified websites ( photos , motors , jobs and property today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . these cookies store no personally identifiable information .  grapeshot ?  we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create navigation . grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  subscriptions online ?  our partner for newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  add this ?  add this provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . this widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .