Pirates of the Caribbean actor joins independent film set in Leicester
http://www.leicestermercury.co.uk/pirates-of-the-caribbean-actor-joins-independent-film-set-in-leicester/story-29466323-detail/story.html

A Pirates of the Caribbean actor and a This is England actor have joined the cast of an independent film made in Leicester .  Winston Ellis and George Newton have begun filming for Rossi 's Boyz -- a British gangster film that is set in Leicester .  The film is being made by Marcus Langford , of Whetsone , and Suave Flava , of Glenfield , and is aiming to be finished by Christmas .  The film , which was written by Marcus and Suave , chronicles two British-born Italian brothers , Gino and Johnny Rossi , who witnessed the murders of their parents at a young age and are seeking revenge .  The two brothers are also trying to win a contract to control the drug flow of several clubs in London .  Marcus said : " It 's brilliant to have Winston Ellis and George Newton on board . It 's really fantastic they 've joined as they have come on board for free and because they love the idea for the film .  " As far as I word of mouth and friends of friends .  " Filming has been going really well so far but we are still looking for a sponsor . "  At the moment , the filmmakers are looking for a sponsor to help them increase the number of days they film each month .  " We want to get a sponsor so that we can try and get the film finished by Christmas .  " It 's fantastic to be able to film in our hometown and after Leicester City won the Premier League after being coached by an Italian man .  " We think it 's a bit of a lucky omen that our team has been very successful and our film is about Italian brothers that are both living in Leicester , especially since we started our film before he was appointed as manager . "  Marcus added that when he first started the movie , many people said that it would n't be popular as it was being filmed in Leicester . However , he said this has since changed .  " After Leicester there was a lot more to England than London .  " Leicester was n't known for much before , but people are now talking about it all over the world . "