Literary Destinations and New Zealand's First Booktown
http://www.booksellers.co.nz/members/services-membership/literary-destinations-and-new-zealand%E2%80%99s-first-booktown

Literary Destinations and New Zealand 's First Booktown  19 Nov 2015  Journeys begin with intentions and , as the summer holidays fast approach , Kiwis think beach , bach , BBQ . The culture vultures among them will no doubt be contemplating life beyond the deck chair and the pages of their latest riveting novel , pondering where to get their next literary fix .  With this in mind , The Read did a bit of cyber-rambling , found out a bit more about New Zealand 's first Booktown and checked in with some booksellers about the sort of traction they got from having literary connections . The result is a list of must-see literary destinations -- ideal pit-stops for the literary community at large this summer . We have also learned how these literary focal points have enhanced booksellers ' livelihoods .  Image from Booktown Featherston , at the Anzac Hall on 18 October  Frank Sargeson House and Michael King Writers Centre in AucklandFor a small nation , New Zealand boasts a sizeable pool of creative talent with many regions having links and every year proudly showcases a glittering array of writers at the hugely successful Auckland Writers Festival . Punching above its weight , the North Shore proudly lays claim to a strong literary heritage and two of New Zealand 's foremost writers : Frank Sargeson and Michael King .  Sargeson 's humble fibrolite bach at 14a Esmonde Road in Takapuna has been well-preserved by The Frank Sargeson Trust and voluntary group , The Friends of Frank Sargeson House , and operates as a literary museum . When you 're done with the beach/shops/caf ? s/restaurants , why not take a guided tour of the museum ? Appointments to view are made through the North Auckland Research Centre at Takapuna Library ; phone ( 09 ) 890 4924 .  Further along the road in Devonport , is literary salon The Michael King Writers Centre ( pictured above ) . Patron to visiting and local writers , and serving the local literary community , this historic former Signalman 's House hosts supports writers ' residencies , literary events , writing and book groups . It even offers visitor accommodation . climb up from the village rewards with literary resonance , a stunning view , growing library and artefacts .  I spoke to Rachel from Paradox Books ( interior below ) about how having such an esteemed writers centre so close has made a difference to them . In essence , she says that it " adds vibrancy " to the already bookish vibe that comprises Devonport . Added to which , Paradox Books are generally the bookseller of choice for events at the Michael King Writers Centre , and visiting writers often frequent the bookshop when they 're in residence .  Booktown and Katherine Mansfield heartland - Wellington  Heading south on the way to Wellington you 'll find Featherston , New Zealand 's first Booktown . Founded this year by Lincoln Gould , CEO of Booksellers NZ and six other keen locals with literary leanings , Featherston 's Booktown was inspired by the original , Hay on Wye in the UK .  As Gould explains , " A Book Town is a small rural town or village , close to major cities , in which second-hand and in villages of historic interest or of scenic beauty . Their residents set up events around books -- selling them , writing , reading , illustrating , printing , making and publishing them . "  In October , the literary community in Featherston hosted their first Booktown Festival ( image above from this ) , offering a host of literary events and workshops . It was a great success and gained the community national media attention . For more , see : www.booktown.org.nz .  Stretching along the city 's picturesque waterfront -- essentially bookmarking Wellington 's urban land-and-seascapes -- the walk comprises 23 sculptural quotations from some of New Zealand 's best-known writers . These typographical statements are expressed in concrete plaques and inlaid metal text on wooden ' benchmarks ' , and appear in intriguing , often surprising places as you wander past . These sculptural tributes -- the work of renowned typographer Catherine Griffiths and award-winning architect Fiona Christeller -- celebrate the place of Wellington in these writers ' lives , and their place in the life of Wellington .  I talked to Tilly from Unity she said that they become " part of the buzz of the city , feeding into the character and atmosphere ; they also create a useful background noise . " Imagine reading poet Bill Manhire 's immortal words : I live at the edge of the universe , like everybody else on a concrete plaque as you skirt Wellington 's waterfront , and not be moved to want to read more . Rhetorical .  Dynamic Christchurch and their new literary trail Lively and dynamic , Christchurch is a literary and arts hub par excellence . Hosting every kind of literary event and festival imaginable , not least the annual Christchurch Arts Festival , biannual WORD Christchurch and World Buskers Festival , you 'd be crazy to miss out on the array of talent on offer year-on-year .  The meandering and ambitious re-build in central Christchurch has created an opportunity for the creation of a literary trail along the banks of the Avon River . Taking the form of installation panels , each work contains excerpts by the following prominent authors : Sir Apirana Taylor , John Deans , Wiremu about Christchurch 's newest installation , Hon Nicky Wagner , Associate Minister for Canterbury Earthquake Recovery , said " The words are etched onto the steps that lead down to the river 's edge , celebrating both the Avon River and Christchurch 's rich literary history . These are the first works in a series of literary sculptures that will be installed down the length of the Avon River Precinct 's promenade . " What 's not to love !  UNESCO City of Literature , DunedinFor the past year , Dunedin has been basking in the fact that it is New Zealand 's only city to be designated a UNESCO Creative City of Literature . Such an accolade has doubtless spurred cultural tourism for Dunedin , a city already known for its vast cultural heritage , and for the reputation it has for nurturing literary talent . Dunedin was the first city in New Zealand to initiate a writer 's fellowship and today considerable support is provided to many writers through the multitude of awards , competitions and residencies on offer . And then there 's the Arts Festival Dunedin spoke to Bronwyn from the University Bookshop ( above ) about whether Dunedin 's status as a UNESCO Creative City of Literature had made a difference to them and if so , how . Describing Uni Books as the " sitting room of UNESCO , with strong connections to local writers and illustrators , " Bronwyn said " being named as a UNESCO Creative City of Literature was a huge coup and one that had really put Dunedin on the map . Now , we have networks with fellow UNESCO cities and can share ideas .  Locally , it had raised awareness of literature and Dunedin 's local luminaries . "  Whether you are venturing north or south , there is always an excuse to venture out into the literary landscape while on holiday this year . Happy literary trails !  by Sarah Thornton , Thornton Communications  - If you find yourself between Christchurch and Dunedin , Oamaru is home to Janet Frame House , maintained by the Janet Frame Eden Street Trust .