5 reasons why this desert race is so different
http://www.redbull.com/en/stories/1331760371644/red-bull-photography-exclusive-duneriders-action-clip

5 reasons why this desert race is so different  Photographer Craig Kolesky took a weatherproof F-stop bag full of camera kit to a remote location to shoot a bizarre downhill race between freeskier Fabio Studer and mountain biker Oliver Munnik . See the stunning result in the above clip shot by Anton Nelson ( and Kolesky 's money shot at RedBullPhotography.com ) and read on for why this is a bit of an unusual project to say the least .  1 . For a start , it 's MTB vs skiing in the same race  When have you ever seen a mountain biker take on a skier ? " Originally we thought we might have someone sandboarding down a volcano , but I was thinking , ' No , we can do better than that ! ' " says Kolesky . " So we came up with this idea of having two guys from totally different sports matched against each other in a location that 's completely different to anywhere they 'd usually be . " When there 's no conventional hill anywhere that have to find some kind of other location where this is possible . So ...  2 . It took place on a remote Namibian sand dune  OK , so most desert races involve some kind of remoteness -- city marathons they are n't -- but hundreds of kilometres from major civilisation ? " We shot at Meob Bay , which is about 260km south of the nearest town , Walvis Bay , " recalls Kolesky . " The only way to get there is by 4x4 and with a team of professional drivers and guides . There are a handful of people who can get the right permits to shoot there , and we managed to get the perfect group of guides -- an awesome team who got us right out into the dunes . "  3 . The ocean was a big factor  Though it was an arid African desert , the location of the shoot in the Namib Desert was accessed via the coast , and this produced a unique logistical problem . " There 's a 100m stretch , where the dunes meet the Kolesky of the route out to the location . " We had to wait four hours for the tide to go down far enough for us to pass . "  Related Stories  4 . Producing an equal battleground takes practice  OK , so you want a race , but you want a fair one -- and a photographer like Craig Kolesky needs both racers in shot ! So when one guy is too fast and the other too slow , you have a problem ... " On his first test run he absolutely flew down this dune , and had to really dig in to slow himself down for the photo , " says Kolesky of Studer . " At the bottom he just had this massive smile on his face , as if to say , ' Yeah , this is going to work ! ' " And Munnik ? We quickly learned that we had to get his tyre pressure exactly right for him to roll properly down the dunes -- taking into account the density of the sand and the direction of the slope , more quickly than you think  -- Craig Kolesky  5 . This desert has killer fog  Mist rolling in off the sea in North Frisia or creeping over a Tyrolean Alp is something a German mountain biker or Austrian skier might be led to expect , but fog on an African sand dune ? " It 's a very hostile place to be . It 's hot in the middle of the day and very cold at all other times , " says Kolesky . " It 's also very windy , which kicks up the sand . Plus , fog can roll in quickly and completely disorient you . The desert can kill you more quickly than you think . "