Australian law firm files NZ$79 million class action against ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/world/74213849/Australian-law-firm-files-NZ-79-million-class-action-against-Volkswagen

australian law firm files nz$79 million class action against volkswagen  last updated 16:03 , november 19 2015  wolfgang rattay/reuters  volkswagen is already facing a handful of shareholder lawsuits .  law firm maurice blackburn will launch a class action lawsuit on thursday on behalf of australian owners of scam-tainted volkswagen ag seeking total damages " well north " of a$100 million ( nz$109million ) .  volkswagen is embroiled in a global recall scandal , and faces several class action lawsuits , after tests showed that thousands of vehicles had been fitted with devices designed to mask the level of emissions .  more than 10,000 australian owners have already registered for the class action that targets the german parent companies involved in the emissions scam , not just the local subsidiaries , maurice blackburn said .  " i am here to bring them to account for what they 've done . i 'm here to deter other companies from behaving similarly , " said richardson , one of the lead applicants for the class action in australia .  maurice blackburn principal than 90,000 car owners , will seek to recover the full cost of the vehicle , plus damages for misleading and deceptive conduct , among others .  volkswagen did not immediately respond to a request for comment by reuters outside business hours .  volkswagen already faces a handful of shareholder lawsuits , including a securities-fraud class action in virginia against its u.s. divisions and a planned claim by dutch investor association veb on behalf of investors who bought vw stock through a dutch bank or broker .  the company is also battling dozens of class actions accusing it of fraud for selling supposedly low-pollution , high-horsepower , fuel-sipping vehicles that have declined substantially in value since the revelations .  litigation funder bentham europe , a joint venture between australia 's imf bentham and u.s. hedge fund elliott management on nov. 5 said it was talking with volkswagen 's 200 largest investors about filing a lawsuit in germany , as soon as february , claiming negligence and breach of securities law .