Opposition to camp ground contract plan
http://www.odt.co.nz/regions/north-otago/331613/opposition-camp-ground-contract-plan

opposition to camp ground contract plan  private management of waitaki lakes camping areas has been strongly opposed in submissions made to the waitaki district council .  last year , the council produced a draft waitaki lakes camping areas management plan which put forward several proposals , including long-term contracts or leasing to private providers for up to 21 years camping areas at parsons rock , boat harbour , loch laird and the wildlife reserve as one group , ohau c and falstone as the second and sailors cutting on its own .  that was put out for public submissions in november , closing on january 23 , along with other issues such as waitaki ratepayers subsidising campers ' activity by between $25,000 and $125,000 each year .  the council received 158 submissions , 60% of them from campers , 14% from day users and others from a variety of people .  of those making submissions , 70% were from outside the waitaki district .  the most contentious proposal in the plan was leasing out the camping areas , with almost 59% in relation to that proposal included a lack of financial information on costs of running the camps , concern with likely fee increases and losing the ' ' kiwi-style ' ' camping atmosphere .  six submissions opposed ratepayers subsidising camping , while another six pointed out other amenities and activities were subsidised .  overall , those opposing changes emphasised they wanted the status quo kept with an undeveloped environment that had basic amenities - good , well-maintained toilets , a water supply and rubbish removal .  there was strong support for ' ' user pays ' ' fees for boat ramps , effluent dumping stations and other facilities at the reserves .  that was supported by about 70% of submitters , with 16.5% opposed .  however , 12 submitters asked why there had been no maintenance or improvements to boat ramps given the fees the council was already collecting , the same number emphasising the fees had to be fair and go back into the ramps .  the two most popular camping areas based on the submission returns were falstone ( 24% ) and sailor ahuriri arms respectively of lake benmore .  ohau c ( 14% ) and loch laird ( 13% ) , both also on lake benmore , were the next popular .  some submitters had long histories of camping around the lakes , some for 40 years or more .  on wednesday , the council 's community services committee will hear from 14 submitters speaking to their submissions , and consider the others .