Community good still drives philanthropist
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/queenstown-lakes/331592/community-good-still-drives-philanthropist

Community good still drives philanthropist  As he prepared for his 70th birthday bash yesterday , Queenstown investor and philanthropist Sir Eion Edgar has good news : ' ' I 'm not slowing down . ' '  It is good news because , after relocating from Dunedin in December 2003 , Sir Eion has already left a significant mark in town .  Without his readiness to part with substantial money , Queenstown Resort College and the Winter Games would not have got off the ground .  And the Queenstown Trails Trust could have struggled to raise money to complete its 110km network of cycling/walking trails around the Wakatipu .  The founder and longtime chairman of sharebroking firm Forsyth Barr , who has bounced back from double knee replacement surgery in October , said he was approached by educator Jan Fitz-Gerald to finance QRC in early 2003 .  At the time he was still the Dunedin-based chancellor of the University of Otago .  Sir Eion said he first sought approval from the university 's council to pursue the project once he retired no conflict , delighted you 'll do it ' . ' '  After eventually finding land for a building , the college opened for classes in 2006 .  ' ' It has n't been easy . It 's cost a lot of money , but it 's been one of the best things for Queenstown .  ' ' It 's not seasonal - the kids are there 50 weeks a year - and it adds real value to all aspects of tourism . ' '  The Queenstown and Wanaka-based Winter Games , meanwhile , were the knight 's own brainwave , when he was president of the New Zealand Olympic Committee .  He said the United States Olympic Committee was discussing a summer games for Pacific Rim countries when he said to his secretary-general , Barry Maister : ' ' Why do n't we have a Winter Games , because all of these other countries are in the northern hemisphere . ' '  After a feasibility study by current chief executive Arthur Klap , the games have been run every two years since 2009 . crisis , was particularly tough but , as with QRC , Sir Eion has happily bankrolled the games , because he believes in them .  ' ' It has a huge multiplier effect in promoting the Queenstown-Wanaka region and giving young New Zealand athletes the opportunity to perform . ' '  Sir Eion said his trails trust involvement arose after he was invited to go on a tramp with a local walking group .  ' ' A lovely guy called Cliff Broad said , Eion , can you help us ? I 've got involved with this Wakatipu Trails Trust and it 's going nowhere . Would you be prepared to become the patron and back it ? ' ' '  As he and his wife Jan , Lady Edgar , were keen walkers , he readily accepted .  Subsequently , along with chief executive Kaye Parker , he played a leading role in the campaign to raise $6 million to complete the trail network .  He said the trust was also fortunate it got government support to join the NZ Cycle Trail network . time to ' ' raising money for good causes ' ' , says : ' ' I learnt from the early days that if you put your own money up first , it makes it a lot easier to then ask others . ' '  He is also a regular bidder in local charity auctions - the back of his garage is packed with items he did not want ' ' but the auction was a bit dull ' ' .  Coming from Dunedin , whose people , he quips , have very short hands and long pockets , he says Queenstown has a very generous community .  ' ' There 's people who could do more but also there 's an awful lot of people that go out of their way .  ' ' To get 200 patrons for the Winter Games , 90% of them from Queenstown , just demonstrates the generosity . ' '  He has also never come across a more positive community .  ' ' The wonderful thing about Queenstown is 98% of the people who live here were n't here .  ' ' They 're then determined to prove they were right to make that decision , so you get this enormous enthusiasm . ' '