America's Cup World Series - Bermuda booming
http://www.sail-world.com/America-s-Cup-World-Series---Bermuda-booming/139077

Six hotels and guesthouses across Hamilton and Paget told The Royal Gazette of very positive take-up for the three-day Louis Vuitton America 's Cup World Series , which begins next Friday .  They said it gave them great hope for 2017 , when Bermuda will host the 35th America 's Cup , and added that next weekend 's festivities would help to show the Island in a new light to many visitors , who would potentially return in future .  The Hamilton Princess and Beach Club , the Royal Palms , the Rosedon Hotel , the Rosemont , the Oxford House and Coco Reef all said they were at full occupancy or very close to this .  Oracle Team USA sailing their first AC45S in Bermuda  Oracle Team USA media  Vince Angelo , general manager at Coco Reef , said all 60 rooms had been sold out from next Thursday to Saturday , half of which could be accounted for by the America 's Cup .  " Without that group here , a lot of hotels would have less on the " We at Coco Reef are extremely excited . It 's awesome . "  Hamilton Princess and Beach Club , the official worldwide host hotel for the 2017 America 's Cup , said 410 rooms were fully booked more than a month ago .  " While October typically is busy for us , the hotel has seen a great boost as a result of America 's Cup , " a spokeswoman said .  " As we look ahead to 2017 , Hamilton Princess and Beach Club is excited to be a part of all social activities outside of Dockyard for events leading up to and during the 2017 America 's Cup .  " We look forward to showcasing to the world our newly renovated hotel . "  Hamilton Princess and Beach Club - official worldwide host hotel for the 2017 America 's Cup - had the " No Vacancy " sign up for the past month .  . ..  Ann Smith , owner of Oxford House , whose 12 rooms are at full occupancy , said that her phones have been ringing " a week of racing . She said her guests were booking longer stays because of the America 's Cup .  Stephen Todd , chief executive of Bermuda Hotel Association , told this newspaper : " We 're very optimistic this is going to bring positive results because visitors will see Bermuda in a completely different light .  " Travellers tend to think more of other destinations only because our marketing strategy has n't been focused on Bermuda being a year-round destination .  " We 're especially pleased that visitors have taken the opportunity to book into some of the smaller properties as well . That 's also a very positive sign for our association . "  Coco Reef Hotel - has the full sign up - surprised ?  . ..  The qualifying event is scheduled to take place on the Great Sound on Saturday , October 17 , and Sunday , October 18 , with festivities formally starting in Hamilton the previous Friday .  Mr Todd continued : " The closer we get to 2017 , the higher the interest will be . It will used to . They 'll also take in some of the other activities and amenities that we have available .  " Some people tend to think more in terms of other destinations only because our marketing strategy has n't been focused on Bermuda being a year-round destination .  " We may not be able to offer the warmest temperatures for swimming in , say , January , but we have other attractions and other activities that I believe are very appealing to the visitor . "  Meanwhile , Pompano Beach Club , Southampton , which is slated to host Oracle Team USA in 2017 , said about half of its 75 rooms had been booked for the World Series .  However owner Larry Lamb remained upbeat , telling The Royal Gazette : " America 's Cup , for the Island , is great . It 's put a ton of kids in schools . Car sales are way up . Supermarkets are fuller . A tremendous amount of good has come from this event .  " Originally they predicted hotels would benefit , but it 's a job .  " They 've rented the heck out of the apartments , which is still filling a void in Bermuda 's economy . Economically , it 's great . "