ERC approves NGCP, Aboitiz Group power supply deals
http://www.interaksyon.com/business/67815/erc-approves-ngcp-aboitiz-group-power-supply-deals

ERC approves NGCP , Aboitiz Group power supply deals  MANILA - The National Grid Corp of the Philippines ( NGCP ) expects the cost of ancillary services ( AS ) or reserve power to go down by more than a third after it signed supply agreements with Aboitiz Power Corp .  NGCP president Henry Sy Jr . said the ASPAs will help lower electricity rates .  " We are constantly looking for ways to lessen AS cost by engaging power generators who are technically capable and willing to provide AS at a rate acceptable to grid-users , " Sy said .  The ERC has already given its go signal to the ASPAs to allow NGCP to augment the existing reserves of the Luzon grid amid increasing demand .  The available power reserves are insufficient to comply with the required levels of contingency and dispatchable reserves prescribed in the Philippine Grid Code .  The agreements will also address the possible AS supply deficiency during the dry season when hydropower plants have low water reserve .  " By entering into an agreement reliability of the supply of reserves necessary to maintain the quality and frequency of electricity transmitted to distribution utilities and other grid-users , " NGCP spokesperson Cynthia D. Perez-Alabanza said  The ERC-approved AS rate indicates that charges may be 30-40 percent less than the existing rates for the same amount of reserves .  The old AS rate is P0.29 per kilowatt-hour , while the new one , P0.18 .  " We continue to push for less expensive ancillary services to make sure that we only get the more efficient and affordable ancillary services providers . We want to serve our grid customers better . We will secure the reliability and stability of the grid , but we will not burden the end-consumers , " Sy said .  The ERC also granted NGCP the authority to schedule the contracted AS capacities with the reminder that the grid operator shall " optimize the economic and technical dispatch of the said resources . "  In scheduling , the grid operator shall consider the " AS provider with the least cost for the reserve needed to maintain the quality , " ERC said .  Further , NGCP is directed to submit a monthly computation of AS rates .  Ancillary Services , as defined in Section 4 ( b ) of the EPIRA , are " those services that are necessary to support the transmission of capacity and energy from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of the transmission system in accordance with good utility practice and the Grid Code " .  AS are needed to regulate the frequency of transmitted electricity to avoid fluctuations and to help the grid adapt to sudden loss of power supply , thus preventing massive blackouts . AS also provides assistance to back-up generating plants to recover from a shutdown and augment the grid .  As grid operator , NGCP is tasked to bill and collect AS charges based on the ERC-approved rates . These charges , however , do not form a part of NGCP 's revenues and are only pass-on charges remitted entirely to the generation companies from which the AS are sourced .  NGCP is a privately owned corporation in charge of operating , maintaining , and electricity through " power superhighways " that include the interconnected system of transmission lines and towers , substations and related assets .