Post-Haiyan: Baby Israel born in mobile clinic
http://www.rappler.com/move-ph/issues/disasters/typhoon-yolanda/43805-baby-boy-israel-bogo-cebu

welcome to rappler , a social news network where stories inspire community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .  post-haiyan : baby israel born in mobile clinic  first baby . baby boy israel is born in the israeli defense forces field hospital in bogo city , cebu , named after the country that helped her mother give birth . photo from the twitter account of idf spokesman for international media peter lerner  manila , philippines -- despite the devastation in storm-ravaged northern cebu , emylou antigua has a reason to celebrate and hope . it came in the form of a baby boy she named after the country that helped her through the ordeal : israel .  baby israel antigua was the first child born in the israeli defense forces ( idf ) field hospital set up in bogo city , northern cebu . the baby was born at 2 pm of friday , november 15 , just  levene said the name was the choice of the grateful parents emylou and audrin antigua . he said both mother and child are doing well .  bogo is among the cities hardest hit by super typhoon yolanda ( haiyan ) in cebu province . bogo city mayor celestino martinez jr has said that the typhoon " destroyed everything we have here , from infrastructure to agriculture . "  levene said some of the patients the idf was treating were victims of the magnitude 7.2 earthquake in october . yet he said the group was working quickly to help out .  " we arrived on the plane literally yesterday . we left the airport and half the equipment was already up here in bogo last night . the other equipment came in this morning and we were functioning at 12 pm , " he said .  there are over 150 personnel of the idf in bogo , including doctors , surgeons , nurses and rescue teams . they are treating thousands of wounded survivors , mostly women and children .  the israeli embassy in the philippines maraming salamat " or thank you for the aid .  the idf 's mission is called " operation islands for hope " aimed at using medical supplies and giving goods to victims of haiyan .  " the whole program here is built by us asking what is here . we do n't come in to say we do things . we ask them what they need . we do n't , we help , we assist , " said levene .  levene said that the situation in bogo is " not perfect but it 's not the worst . "  " in the north of cebu , get the hard situation there . the shoreline of cebu was hit very hard . we 're going to the different municipalities to get to the people . what we can see is that from the earthquake , a lot of people died and there are a lot of infectious diseases . the idea is to contain all these and help . "  levene added that the bogo hospital is still functioning but the hospitals in other areas in all .  " we 're giving all the medical services until all the hospitals up north are functional . the idea is to help them . we have experts with the training to get them back up , " he said .  " we have more medical equipment coming in next week . we 'll look at the community , disaster management , different issues and communicate with the hospitals . "  baby boy israel is the second " miracle baby " born in the aftermath of haiyan . on monday , baby bea joy sagales was born at an emergency clinic in the ruined airport in tacloban city , leyte .  the world 's strongest typhoon to make landfall , haiyan killed 3,621 people and the death toll is expected to climb . the typhoon ravaged eastern visayas , flattening cities and towns , and leaving thousands homeless .  amid the destruction , stories of hope and heroism have emerged as filipinos and the international community rush to help the victims . -- rappler.com  would you like to share your vote ?  welcome community engagement and digitally fuelled actions for social change . rappler comes from the root words " rap " ( to discuss ) + " ripple " ( to make waves ) .