Upbeat images
http://entertainment.inquirer.net/121007/upbeat-images

For weeks now , we 've been keeping tabs of the proceedings on " Showtime 's " " That 's My Tomboy " personality and talent tilt , which is creating a buzz because it 's the first showcase that 's been provided for the country 's tomboys , T-Birds or lesbians . Heretofore , only male gays had the run of the small screen , while their lesbian counterparts were sort of restricted to the sidelines , or even the shadows , except for the forthright likes of Aiza Seguerra and Charice .  What seemed to be the problem ? We asked around , and some TV people volunteered their feeling that " tomboys " were n't as " entertaining " as flaming fairies ! They tried too hard to act " macho , " and that made them come off as too tough , heavy and humorless to be entertaining .  But , all that 's in the past : With " That 's My Tomboy , " lesbians have been given their own noontime showcase and opportunity to strut their stuff , for some of them , to shine .  ADVERTISEMENT  True enough , the tilt thus far has pretty much decided to play it safe , and most of its contestants have been of the young , " cute " and " sort of pilyo " type -- nothing too brusque or threatening -- and , absolutely no bull-dykes , please .  We do notice that , from time to time , a less cute and more idiosyncratic tomboy is featured , so the tilt may get a bit edgier as the weeks progress and viewers get less uptight .  EIGENMANN . Has lost 30lbs -- and counting .  Another upbeat development is the emergence of the tomboy tilt 's first real singing discovery , who made a strong impression last week by doing a split-gender , boy-girl act , during which she did full vocal justice to both parts of her " self-duet . "  In addition , she came across as a confident entertainer and personality , unlike many other contestants who are merely personable , or can dance a little . Will the tomboy discovery ? Knock on wood !  Elsewhere on the tube , we 're glad that some obese stars are starting to lose weight . For instance , Aga Muhlach is beginning to look lighter , more boyish and cuter ( despite his already being in his 40s ) on his new game-quiz show , " Let 's Ask Pilipinas . " We hear , too , that Geoff Eigenmann has lost more than 30 pounds -- and counting .  We hope that other overweight stars will also motivate themselves to get back into genuine performing trim in the coming weeks and months . Their careers will definitely gain from their determined loss of dross -- and gross !