'I don't know how Eastern Samar will rise again,' lawmaker says
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/74902/i-dont-know-how-eastern-samar-will-rise-again-lawmaker-says

two days after typhoon yolanda wreaked havoc on the philippines , eastern samar representative ben evardone boarded a private plane to undertake an aerial survey of his home province .  as he scanned the ground below , he saw homes demolished , structures destroyed , and human life decimated .  some of the villages were no longer there , the lawmaker said , barely able to control his emotions .  when he was finally able to land and saw the bleak fate that befell his provincemates , evardone he knew it would take years before the place could get back on its feet .  " when i saw lawaan ( town ) , i told myself the province is gone . there is one barangay that was totally wiped out , " said evardone , who also served as the province 's former governor .  eleven of the 23 towns sustained major damages . they are lawaan , hernani , balangkayan , maydolong , general macarthur , salcedo , mercedes , guiuan , quinapondan , giporlos and balangiga . the typhoon first november 12 , 229 have died , 2,470 have been injured , and 45 remain missing , according to data gathered by evardone from local officials of nine towns . the number of families affected was 52,041 or 174,824 persons and the number of damaged houses reached 5,917 .  coconut trees were either uprooted or toppled . at least 80 percent of the people in the province rely on the coconut industry , evardone said .  " it takes five to 10 years to replant coconut . if you use a new variety , you wait for three to five years . in the meantime , what will they do , what will you do with your children , " he said .  " i really do n't know how we will be able to rise again , " evardone added .  supply of relief goods was not regular , he said .  relief from the government 's c-130 plane for the first time came monday afternoon , or three days after the typhoon struck . the next days , the cargo plane returned but had in the area .  on wednesday , evardone said it was a us plane that carried the food and water for the people .  a number of villages , have not been reached , he said .  many of the people are also scrambling to board the government cargo plane for other places such as cebu or manila .  " i 'm at a loss . ... the priority is to feed the hungry people , " he said .  evardone said he has volunteered to join discussions at the bicameral conference committee when congressmen and senators tackle the 2014 budget .  he said he would push for the realignment of some amount to create a rehabilitation fund for provinces devastated by calamities.