VIDEO | Japan to deploy 3 naval vessels to Leyte, triples aid to $30 ...
http://www.interaksyon.com/article/74938/video--japan-to-deploy-3-naval-vessels-to-leyte-triples-aid-to-30-million

TOKYO - The Japanese government said Friday it would deploy three Self-Defense Forces ( SDF ) vessels to the typhoon-ravaged Leyte island in the Philippines , with as many as 1 , 000 SDF personnel expected to assist with relief efforts there and throughout the Philippines .  Japan 's Foreign and Defense Ministry officials said Friday the operation , which is expected to swing into full gear as early as next week , would mark the biggest mobilization of SDF troops for a relief mission ever overseas .  With Leyte island and its surrounding waters being used as the primary base for Japan 's troops , personnel will also be deployed from the vessels to the hard-hit city of Tacloban where emergency supplies , including food and fuel are running dangerously low , ministry officials said .  Transportation of supplies and troops between Leyte and the mainland by Japan 's first-responders has already taken place utilizing Japan 's Air Self-Defense Force 's Osprey planes -- their first official deployment outside of Okinawa -- as well as regular helicopters , defense ministry officials said . successfully airlifted vital medical equipment , medicine to combat the rampant spread of infectious diseases in the area , water purification units as well as generators to central Cebu Island , but additional Japanese medical personnel have also been stranded in Manila awaiting regular flights to Cebu , officials here said , hampering the ongoing relief mission .  Efforts have also been hamstrung by civil unrest and with some areas posing security risks to troops and rescue workers .  " What we are watching most carefully is the local security situation , " Shigeru Iwasaki , chief of the SDF 's Joint Staff , said at a recent press briefing .  " We will gather information not only from the Philippine government , but also from US military troops who are working there so we will be able to secure the safety of our personnel , " he was quoted by local media as saying , with reference to instances of looting and gunfire in some of the disaster-hit areas that remain un-policed .  Next week 's deployment from Japan will greatly assist international relief efforts underway Minister Itsunori Onodera said Friday , with calls for Japan to bolster medical and rescue efforts , which have been hampered by fuel shortages making it difficult for vehicles to access those in need and civil unrest which has compromised the security environment there .  Onodera said the two Maritime Self-Defense Force 's transport vessels are being equipped with helicopters and supplies at the Kure naval base located in Hiroshima Prefecture , prior to their disembarkation .  The Japanese government also announced Friday that it was tripling its emergency aid package for the Philippines to more than $30 million , with $2-million worth of emergency relief goods being channeled through Japan-based charities and non- governmental organizations here , the foreign ministry said .  The ministry confirmed that it has earmarked a total of around $52 million in emergency funding , which also comprises a $20-million contribution to its poverty reduction fund at the Manila-based Asian Development Bank .