Building a Maritime University in Delta State is a Waste of ...
http://www.nigerianbulletin.com/threads/building-a-maritime-university-in-delta-state-is-a-waste-of-resources-amaechi.167878/

metro building a maritime university in delta state is a waste of resources - amaechi  nigeria 's minister of transportation and aviation , mr. rotimi amaechi , has disclosed that the government will not be building the proposed maritime university project in delta state .  amaechi made the disclosure during during a meeting with the senate committee on marine transport ; this day reports .  he said , ' ' currently , the way nimasa is , if you look at it very well , it was worse in the last administration . it was as if it was established just for the purpose of collecting money and nothing more . what we need to do is to ensure that nimasa discharges its core responsibilities .  ' ' if nimasa failed to outsource its core responsibility , then it has no business existing . if it is just to collect money from individuals , anybody can do that . we can hire a tax collector to collect money from maritime operators on behalf of federal ministry of transportion . so it is either we come to the national assembly to repeal the act setting it up and allow the department of marine security in the ministry of transportation to discharge the responsibility currently being discharged by nimasa . "  ' ' we are not going ahead with the university project proposed by nimasa because we have a an institution in oron , we have nigeria institute of transport technology , zaria , and we have the nigerian college of aviation in zaria which we could upgrade to a university status and nimasa is proposing to build a new one .  ' ' who will attend the university ? how many parents will allow their children to go to such place where it proposes to site the university ? what is the aim of the university that we can not achieve in oron where they have all the necessary infrastructure ?  ' ' i do n't think we are proceeding with the university being proposed by nimasa because it is a waste of resources , and unfortunately , a lot of money had already been released for the university project hence there .  ' ' whoever is holding on to the money should better return it . the chinese company contracted confirmed that only the feasibility study was in place . "  company  news hub  article hub  video hub  social  subscribe  nigerianbulletin.com is one of nigeria 's leading on-line destinations for the latest nigerian trending news and updates , helpful articles and a community sharing the best , latest information on nigeria and things that concern nigerians . some of the topics we cover include nigerian political news , metro , sports , business and entertainment . in addition we provide articles on careers , health , technology , travel and money . these articles are designed to help nigerians make informed decisions in their every day personal and professional lives .