Victor UmehEx-APGA chairman urges Buhari to implement report of ...
http://pulse.ng/local/victor-umeh-ex-apga-chairman-urges-buhari-to-implement-report-of-2014-national-conference-id4597594.html

Chief Victor Umeh , the former National Chairman , All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA ) , has called on President Mohammadu Buhari to implement the report of the 2014 National Conference .  Umeh made the call on Saturday in Onitsha in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) .  He contended that the only basis that would guarantee Nigeria 's unity was the implementation of the confab report , stressing that the problems confronting Nigeria would persist if the report was not implemented .  " We can not continue to sustain Nigeria on injustice . We want a Nigeria that will be run on equity and fairness .  " If the president wants a Nigeria where every citizen will have confidence and faith in the country , the conference report should be implemented , " he said .  Umeh , who is APGA 's senatorial candidate in the re-run election for Anambra Central District , described the confab report as " an important national document which must not be wished away . ' '  He said are two controversial issues that bind Nigeria together that must not be removed .  " The far-reaching recommendations of the conference and its resolution on issues of true fiscal federalism and political restructuring should not be changed .  " We approved rotational presidency within the six geo-political zones ; this , as well as true fiscal federalism will achieve harmony and confidence on the part of Nigerians , " Umeh , a delegate to the conference said .  The senatorial candidate promised that if elected as senator , he would advocate for the implementation of the report .  He dismissed the allegation that he was contesting the senatorial seat to move motions in favour of Biafra , saying that his desire to contest the election was to ensure equitable distribution of the nation 's resources .  " My mission is different from that of the other senatorial contestants and I am ready to pay any price for standing by my people , " he said .