Fayose disagrees with APC over airport project
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/02/fayose-disagrees-with-apc-over-airport-project-2/

fayose disagrees with apc over airport project  ado-ekiti -- ekiti state governor , mr ayodele fayose , has said the capital projects embarked upon by his administration , including an airstrip are not only timely , but are meeting people 's needs , contrary to the claim by a former governor of the state , otunba niyi adebayo .  *ayo fayose  speaking through his chief press secretary , mr iidowu adelusi , in ado-ekiti on wednesday , the governor said the claim by adebayo in abuja on tuesday that the airstrip project was ill-timed was borne out of malice because adebayo failed to utiilise the opportunity given him by the people of the state by executing projects he ( adebayo ) could be remembered for .  " ekiti people should thank god that the apc people left this state , if not , this state would have collapsed .  " i learned that they have resurrected and then met in abuja . let them gang up again , i will floor them come 2018 .  " i am their headache and let them keep lying .  if they have anything incriminating against me , they would have published it . but they do n't have anything , that 's why they resorted to fabricating lies to assist them . "  the governor noted that all the states created at the same time with ekiti 20 years ago have either built an airport or airstrip .  the governor said when he conceived the idea to dualise ado township roads , this same opposition party , then known as the alliance for democracy ( ad ) , said the project was ill-timed and not well conceived , but the people of the state are now enjoying the amenities .  " let us do a comparison between the former all progressives congress ( apc ) and the peoples democratic party ( pdp ) administrations in ekiti state and point out which has enhanced or retarded the progress of the state .  " niyi adebayo and kayode fayemi administrations plunged the state into debt . hardly can you identify any project done by the apc led government , yet the state happy with my administation , they are the apc members who ekiti people stopped from further plundering the state by voting them out on june 21 , 2014 .  " despite the huge debt we met , the state has progressed and we have embarked on numerous capital projects such as the funmilayo olayinka women centre , the extension of the dualisation of the ado-ikere road , the construction of a modern and befitting ojaba market . we will soon embark on the flyover project in fajuyi area of ado-ekiti . we have done roads in petim area of ado , de head-police headquarters , erio township road , afao road , the dualisation of awedele road among others .  " we know that apc leaders are stunned and dazed that there is no way they can stop our wheel of progress . let them continue to gather together and they will be scattered because the people of the state have rejected them , " he said .  governor fayose added that he and his party , the pdp , are not afr aid of the 2018 governorship behind him and the party .  meantime , a chieftain of the apc , mr. olusegun osinkolu , has said the reconciliation meeting held in abuja on tuesday , where all interested parties in ekiti state chapter of the apc resolved to subsume their groups into apc and pay total loyalty to the party , signaled that the end will surely come for governor ayodele fayose 's reign in ekiti politics in 2018.