Nnamdi Kanu dannot renounce Biafra - MASSOB
https://www.today.ng/news/national/161007/nnamdi-kanu-dannot-renounce-biafra-massob

the movement for the actualization of the sovereign state of biafra ( massob ) believes that nnamdi kanu , the leader of the indigenous peoples of biafra ( ipob ) , can not renounce his group 's demand for an independent state of biafra .  reacting to reports that the federal government was working out an arrangement for kanu 's release from prison if he renounced his baifra agitation , massob described the condition as " laughable and inconsequential . "  in a statement by its leader uchenna madu , massob says they do n't see nnamdi kanu betraying his belief on biafra .  the statement read : " massob does not see mazi nnamdi kanu as one who can betray his belief on biafra , he is not a sell-out , his ideologies on biafra may differ , he can never betray hundreds of biafrans that died recently on the course of biafra .  " secondly , biafra is not a religious faith that can be renounced or abandoned . nobody can renounce biafra , it is an identity , culture , not personal or individualistic .  " there are thousands of biafranistic persons more determined , consistent , dangerous , focused , and unshakeable than nnamdi kanu , uchenna madu and other leading figures in the biafra struggle . " biafra is also bigger than all the leading figures put together .  advertisement  " it is childish on federal government to expect nnamdi kanu to renounce biafra , the fate of over fifty million people .  " massob advises buhari to save his battered nigeria 's face from more diplomatic shame by allowing the court to grant nnamdi kanu and others bail .  " we shall continue to press for their release including the ultimate aim of biafra actualization with non-violence . nigeria will soon experience another dimension of non-violence struggle that will marvel it . soon the world will celebrate the downfall of the most corrupt country . "  a progress report on the dialogue between the movement for the emancipation of niger delta ( mend ) and agents of the federal government , at the weekend , said an arrangement was being worked out government if he renounced his baifra agitation .  but presidential spokesman garba shehu could not confirm mend 's weekend claim . shehu said the government had not received the report of the talks from those it authorised to discuss with mend .