Museveni's long-time rival features in Guinness World Book of ...
http://venturesafrica.com/musevenis-long-time-rival-appears-on-guinness-world-book-of-records/

Museveni 's long-time rival features in Guinness World Book of Records , all thanks to him  Uganda 's opposition leader , Kizza Besigye , has been given a spot in the latest edition of the Guinness Book of Records . The Guinness Book of Records , described on Wikipedia as a reference book " listing listing world records and national records , both of human achievements and the extremes of the natural world , " has announced Mr. Besigye as the most imprisoned person in one year . He holds this record as the result of being jailed not less than 15 times in the past one year .  Besigye is not a bank robber though . His only crime seems to be having the audacity to contest against Yoweri Museveni , Uganda 's leader for the past 30 years . Besigye , who was Museveni 's personal physician for many years has been jailed and then released by Museveni many times before the Ugandan presidential elections were held in February . Museveni won by a landslide , amidst protests of widespread rigging , effectively n't stop after the elections as he was arrested again soon after and placed in jail . He is currently on trial for treason ( allegedly disobeying police orders during his presidential campaign ) , being shunted back and forth from jail to his trial like a common criminal . Besigye , who could have easily made Guinness book of record during his presidential campaign , is now a prisoner of democracy .  Besigye once sat on a sofa placed on a car in one of his campaigns . Guinness Book of World Records worthy . Inset is the man who gave him the sofa . Credit : www.monitor.co.ug  The jury is still out though on what Yoweri Museveni runs in Uganda as it definitely can not be labelled a democracy . Museveni left the ideals of democracy long ago , principles he promised the people of Uganda 30 years ago when he first became president . He has been involved in deposing two presidents , including the infamous Idi Amin , defeating Kizza Besigye four times at the elections and is is currently on his fifth term in arrive , Museveni will be 75 and too old to contest as president of Uganda like its constitution says . However , he has likened his country to a banana plantation once , saying " How can I go out of a banana plantation I have planted that has started bearing fruits ? "  For a man that was once described as a beacon for democracy in Africa , Museveni 's arbitrary arrests of opposition members has surely made him an African " big man " ( dictator , in other words ) , like they say in African political circles . His position in the " big men " of Africa cult , which include people like Mugabe , Teodoro Obiang , Eduardo Dos Santos and Idris Deby , is unquestionable . Time will tell whether or not the inference of Besigye 's Guinness Book of Records appearance will spark a revolution in Uganda .