After ICC campaign, Bayern Munich await start of Bundesliga
http://www.goal.com/en-ng/news/24262/icc-2016/2016/08/05/26246822/after-icc-campaign-bayern-munich-await-start-of-bundesliga

madrid , two of the biggest and most prestigious clubs in the world , already met last season in the quarterfinals of the 2016 champions league .  in their first icc clash , bayern lost on penalties to ac milan after a 3-3 draw with the rossoneri before thrashing inter 4-1 on saturday . zidane&amp;#39 ; s men lost 3-1 to psg in their first icc fixture , before a 3-2 win over chelsea on saturday .  this match marked the end of the pre-season competition for both teams .  after an entertaining opening 45 minutes with both teams looking to get forward whenever possible , bayern have had more of the ball and came closer to scoring .  the first real opportunity of the second half felt to the spanish side . lucas vasquez found space down the right and fizzes a cross to alvaro morata on the edge of the box , but the striker 's first-time strike went harmlessly wide .  despite bayern controlled most of the game it is real who took the lead at 79 ' , the edge of the box .  the bavarians pushed for an equalizer that would have taken the game to penalties , but real held firm to secure a 1-0 win . but bayern 's new coach ancelotti will nevertheless be satisfied with a largely dominant display played at a good tempo . previously colleagues at juventus and real , ancelotti and zidane will now be rivals as coaches of two of europe 's elite teams . but ancelotti , now installed as pep guardiola 's successor at bayern , hopes his team will become the force in europe in 2016-17 .  the bundesliga champions will now return home to germany , with just ten more days until they take on borussia dortmund in the supercup .  as startimes signed an exclusive broadcasting contract with bundesliga for five successive years , from 2015 to 2019 , african viewers will see fc bayern munich playing again from the august 26 , 2016 live on startimes sports channels .