Former President Jonathan, Tompolo, Akpabio, Wike, Dokpesi ...
http://saharareporters.com/2016/08/06/former-president-jonathan-tompolo-akpabio-wike-dokpesi-others-named-sponsors-niger-delta

a group that recently split from niger delta avengers ( nda ) , a militant organization that has claimed responsibility for bombing numerous oil facilities , has claimed that former president goodluck jonathan was the grand patron of the nda . in a statement issued today by cynthia whyte , an alias for a male spokesman , the splinter group also named several former and serving governors as sponsors of the niger delta avengers . those named as " sponsors " included governors nyesom wike of rivers state and seriaki dickson of bayelsa .  by saharareporters , new yorkaug 06 , 2016  a group that recently split from niger delta avengers ( nda ) , a militant organization that has claimed responsibility for bombing numerous oil facilities , has claimed that former president goodluck jonathan was the grand patron of the nda .  in a statement issued today by cynthia whyte , an alias for a male spokesman , the splinter group also named several former and serving governors as sponsors of the niger delta avengers . those named as " sponsors " included bayelsa .  the splinter group , which renamed itself reformed niger delta avengers ( rnda ) , had recently declared its opposition to nda 's destruction of oil infrastructure in the region , warning that it would disclose the names of individuals and groups backing the militant group .  the reformed niger delta avengers named oyege nimi brown , vip timothy , joshua macaiver , paul bebenimibo and others as the main operatives of the nda , adding that udengs eradiri , the president of the ijaw youth council ( iyc ) , also known as brigadier general murdoch agbinibo , serve as the nda 's chief spokesman .  following the release of the list , a source close to former president jonathan told saharareporters that there was " no iota of truth to the claim that former president goodluck jonathan has a hand in the violence in the niger delta . "  the source , who asked not to be identified , said he was in touch with mr. jonathan , adding that the former president was considering issuing a formal statement to dismiss the claims jonathan wanted chaos in nigeria and the niger delta , he would have refused to concede the election to general buhari and the apc , " the source said .  saharareporters.com is an outstanding , groundbreaking news website that encourages citizen journalists to report ongoing corruption and government malfeasance in africa . using photos , text , and video dynamically , the site informs and prompts concerned african citizens and activists globally to act , denouncing officially-sanctioned corruption , the material impoverishment of its citizenry , defilement of the environment , and the callous disregard of the democratic principles enshrined in the constitution .