Angry judges endure tough governmental challenges
http://thenationonlineng.net/angry-judges-endure-tough-governmental-challenges/

Angry judges endure tough governmental challenges  FOR some time to come , Nigerians will remember the Muhammadu Buhari presidency for , among other things , its uneasy relationship with the judiciary . The times are unusual , and to remedy the damage done to the country by those who have exploited loopholes to destroy the country 's financial system , the government and its law enforcement and anti-graft agencies have felt impelled to enact and execute desperate remedies . In its response to these desperate remedies , the judiciary perches on the horns of a dilemma . They are aware of the popularity of the government 's desperate measures , but they are also sworn to dispense justice in accordance with the law , whether that law is weak or not , adequate or not . The government is not similarly discomfited . As this column noted many months back , its leading lights know how popular their measures are and have remained . More keenly , they also recognise that many provisions of the law , which they privately scorn , are unable to accommodate loot they have ferried away with freakish , cartoonish delight .  How the judiciary and the Buhari presidency resolve this irritating dilemma will determine how successful the campaigns against financial malfeasance are , and what lasting impact they would leave on the future of Nigeria in terms of social , financial and political stability . So far , if signals are not misread , there is little to indicate that the impact would be lasting or salutary . Both arms of government would therefore need to find common grounds anchored on the constitution and the law to develop and fine-tune approaches that would have such salutary impact . If they do not find that common ground , the conflict between the two arms will continue , and probably fester to the point of damaging the polity and encouraging self-help , an attitude already evident in most parts of the country among various competing and conflicting ethnic and religious groups .  In July alone , three judges demonstrated how angry they were at the manner some government agencies were carrying out their constitutional responsibilities . Case one involves an aide who was detained between July 1 and July 21 . Arrested around June 27 by the EFCC for his alleged role in laundering N1.2bn on behalf of the Ekiti governor , according to reports , he was awarded five million naira as damages for wrongful and illegal detention . An angry Justice Olukayode Adeniyi of the Federal Capital Territory High Court condemned what he described as EFCC 's ' gross abuse of powers ' and ' arrogant display of executive might ' . The EFCC in turn described the judgement as curious .  Case two involves retired Air Commodore Umar Mohammed who was ordered remanded in prison custody by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal Capital Territory High Court . The retired air force officer , who was a member of the presidential committee on arms procurement , had been arraigned for money laundering and other charges . But instead of keeping him in prison custody , the Department of State Service ( DSS ) , which arraigned him , kept him in their own custody for days presumably to complete some paper work . An incensed Justice Dimgba lashed a strong exception to this type of behaviour ; when the court orders that someone be kept in prison custody , the person ought to be kept in prison and not in the office . If the people at the DSS want to become judge and do their job as well , I am ready to vacate my office for them , but as long as I am still here , I take an exception to them flouting the orders of the court . Once processes have been filed in court , it is no longer in their hands , and the order of the court must be obeyed . " There was no punishment meted out to the DSS operatives who flouted the order , not even a censure , nor a query , nor a slap on the wrist .  Case three is strictly speaking not a part of the arms scandal trials . It was a regular corruption case which drew the ire of the trial judge , Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of a Lagos State High Court , Ikeja . She also had very harsh words for . " It appears that you are keen on taking the laws into your hands , " she told the EFCC counsel . " Why would you go before another court for this kind of order ( a forfeiture order ) when the matter is before me ? This kind of action is what is giving the judiciary a bad name . " The EFCC had recklessly engaged in what the judge described as forum shopping to get an order it was unable to secure from her court .  Another earlier case involving Col Nicholas Ashinze , an aide of the former National Security Adviser ( NSA ) , Col Sambo Dasuki ( retd ) , outraged a judge . This column drew attention to it last May . The colonel had been admitted to bail , but the EFCC ignored the order and kept their quarry . Furious , Justice Yusuf Halilu , the trial judge , blurted out : " The EFCC is a creation of the law . The court will not allow it to act as if it is above the law . It is remarkable nobody is above the law , yet they are acting as if they are above the law . The EFCC Act is not superior to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria . The respondents in this matter have not behaved as if we are in a civilised society . They have behaved as if we are in a military dictatorship , where they arrest and release persons at will . The respondents , I must be bold to say the EFCC and the Army have behaved like illiterates . "  The anger of the judges is not surprising . They were not wrong to feel besieged by the government 's brusque manner of relating with a judiciary they had at various fora and in trenchant words described as equally corrupt as the suspects they were defending . If lasting and impactful progress in the anti-graft war is to be achieved , the government must find a better way to fight the war lawfully . After all , the executive arm has the leeway to propose a welter of reforms in the judiciary to expedite court processes , engender a manner as to sustain them above the proverbial suspicion of Caesar 's wife . The government ca n't hope to put the cart before the horse and expect a miracle .  Just as the legislature is not perfect and is in need of urgent reforms and cleansing , both the executive and the judiciary also share in the blame of poor justice delivery and destabilisation of the country 's economy and politics . Rather than engage in blame game , the Buhari presidency must be persuaded to recognise the limits of throwing caviar to the general as it has unwisely done so far . With the people on its side , sensibly or otherwise , and with the legislature fairly amenable to passing relevant laws to quicken the pace of justice delivery , the government should seize the opportunity to formulate policies and programmes that are capable of sustaining the effort to bequeath a better and cleaner judiciary to future generations . But should the government and its agents keep on seeing the struggle with the judiciary as a sanctimonious fight for the upper hand , they would only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @