Nigeria to end malaria mortality by 2020 - Minister
http://theeagleonline.com.ng/nigeria-to-end-malaria-mortality-by-2020-minister/

Nigeria to end malaria mortality by 2020 -- Minister  He recalled that attempts had been made twice , in 1988 and 2004 , to develop a health policy for the nation . He said : " This year , government is designing a new health policy deliberately captured to promote the health of Nigerians to accelerate socio-economic development  The Minister of Health , Prof. Isaac Adewole , said on Tuesday in Abuja that Nigeria would end malaria mortality by 2020 .  The minister stated this at a town hall meeting and policy dialogue for good governance jointly organised by the Alumni Association of the National Institute and the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture .  Adewole said : " We have set some time frame for ourselves .  " We are committed to reducing maternal mortality before the life span of this administration .  " We want to end malaria mortality by the end of 2020 . "  Adewole said government was on the verge of putting in place a new health policy for the country .  He recalled 2004 , to develop a health policy for the nation .  He said : " This year , government is designing a new health policy deliberately captured to promote the health of Nigerians to accelerate socio-economic development .  " We want to make a statement that when we improve the health of the people , we can engender socio-economic development . "  The minister said the 2016 budget features three prominent areas in the health sector -- immunisation , management of disease outbreak , maternal and child mortality .  He said government is committed to ensuring accountability , transparency and reducing inefficiency in the health sector .  Adewole said government was also looking beyond the budget and had secured a $500 million loan from the World Bank to address maternal and child mortality .  In utilising the fund , the minister said the Federal Government would partner with the states .  He said : " The loan will be accessible to states but with close assessment and monitoring to ensure its proper usage for maternal health , child birth , malarial , nutrition , on the indicators will be given more money . "  Besides , the minister said government launched a new programme called : " Better Health for All Nigerians , " an initiative for taking care of the poor people .  He said through the programme , government will offer free surgery to the poor , screen 500,000 for diabetes and hypertension , 40,000 for hepatitis , 40,000 for cervical cancer and 20,000 for breast cancer .  He said the programme would also be used to handle the nutritional emergency in Borno State .  Adewole said seven tertiary health institutions have been selected for upgrade to handle cancer , renal and cardiac problems , which takes many patients abroad .  He said the step would help to reverse medical tourism , which is costing the country over $1 billion annually on capital flight .  The Minister of Solid Minerals Development , Dr. Kayode Fayemi , in a contribution at the town hall meeting , said : " Nigeria is a mineral rich nation , but not a mining nation . "  Fayemi said the ugly parts of the last 40 year .  The minister said the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to changing the trend with its economic diversification programme .  Fayemi said government will support investors in the mining sector to ensure it takes vantage position in economic diversification programme .  He also disclosed that the government is working on a full data of available mineral resources that investors can access on-line .  The minister said government had regained the abandoned Ajaokuta Steel Company from legal wrangling and ready to put it to profitable use .