My father busy seeking attention - Oduah's son
http://dailypost.ng/2016/09/02/father-busy-seeking-attention-oduahs-son/

my father busy seeking attention -- oduah 's son  one of the son 's of senator stella oduah , tuoyo etoromi oduah , has taken a swipe at his father and husband to the ex-minister , satchie etoromi , saying he will rather be a bastard than be called his father 's son .  the young man released a statement on friday , where he labelled his father as " attention seeker " while also denouncing him .  tuoyo accused his father of resorting to seeking attention in the course of his brother 's death .  while reacting to the claims by his father , he said he was not told of the death of late maxwell etoromi by his family members . he said he called his father on the day of the incident to inform him .  maxwell chinedu etoromi died a week ago after he took a wrong medication prescribed for him following a tooth surgery .  the 28-year-old , died at a turkish private hospital in abuja .  tuoyo further noted that there would be no .  the statement reads , " i feel so heartbroken and distraught that during our time of mourning for my beloved brother , i have been reduced to issue a press statement against my biological father , mr satchie etoromi .  " life is serious . it is not a nollywood movie . this is madness . this is evil . this is defamation . this is attention seeking . this is opportunism . this is shamelessness . this is jealousy . this is abnormal . this is bitterness . this is shocking !  " buwa and i were the product of a short and abusive marriage that ended almost 30 years ago . to a man with many other wives and children . stella oduah is the only father , mother , carer and provider that my brother has ever known . the oduah family is the only family that he has ever been part of and akili ozizo in anambra state is the only hometown he has ever had .  " i called mr satchie and the etoromi family to inform them immediately my brother for him or the representatives of the family throughout the funeral . i offered to build a relationship and have a new start .  " i was happy and optimistic . but i was wrong . instead of asking about his dead son , he proceeded to use my brothers passing as an excuse to shamelessly insult my mother just like he is doing now , issue death threats and even ask for dowry from almost 30 years ago .  " this is madness . mr satchie etoromi 's motivation is not love , not grief , not reconciliation , not to reach out but to seek attention , bitterness , revenge , jealousy , abusive tendencies , possessiveness and maybe even genuine madness .  " mr satchi etoromi , i beg you with god to please leave us alone forever and let buwa rest in peace . may god have mercy on your soul on for what you have just done . i wanted to forgive and reconcile but your recent actions and character have revealed that it is better to be a bastard than be your last time that i will acknowledge and respond . any further public words and actions from mr satchie etoromi will be addressed through legal means . "  a man does not become a father by impregnating a woman . anyone can do that -- even a mad man can . he must contribute to the growth and wellbeing of the child with necessary support -- financially or with words of encouragement . you can not reap where you never sowed.those of you abusing him , abi una bible different ?  where are those idiot that were online here insulting igbos . that in ur tribe men are free to abandon women with children , it is abomination in sight of god.call igbos anything u like but we hardly abandon our kids . most of idiot here will conclude anything they like as long as they know igbos are involve . god will continue frustrating haters of igbos.have u people heard from the son ? one things is human being ca n't be god and if god want to bless u , he will not make enquiries , had it him to burn every igbo . he is a loving god that is why he keep blessing us .  atleast what you have done now is to acknowlege and let the public including myself to understand that the man ( satchie etoromi ) who complained bitterly days ago is not a biological stranger to you , but an attitudinal one . be it as it may , no man has the right to take the respect that should be accorded him traditionally when he is still alive . except he has renounce you as a son or daughter or perhaps you only hear that he exist but you do nt know where he resides . the best you can do is to allow him play his role in his son 's burial after which you resume quarrel .  hw can dis boy tell a story of about 30years , obviously being brainwashed by the mother bt anyway d man did n't run faster for those boys , in my own knowledge about marriage is either u settle with ur wife or u loose everything with her , peace be and must one day beg the father , it is his mother wealth that , is deceiving him . if the father decide to cos him now , he must surely pay for it . as from today he would be address as bastat  i found this very absurd to the african culture . be it igbo , yoruba , hausa , egun , fulani and even swahili . family ties and respect for elders are primary factors and it is obvious this family is a bad image to not just the southern nigeria but the country entirely , an irresponsible father , a loveless systematic witty wife and uncultured child ...... i am looking forward to the extended families , communities and even state 's response to all these cause i know these institutions like many other valueless nigerian institutions will start giving their sentimental views . god save nigeria .  boymama how do you know your mother were abused over 30 years ago ? i guess you were not even born then .... hmmmm ask your mama what really happened .. i guess your mother was the industry with corruption because of her love for money ... oh i almost forgotten , what of the other husband in benin city , chris ogiewonyi ?  boymama how do you know your mother were abused over 30 years ago ? i guess you were not even born then .... hmmmm ask your mama what really happened .. i guess your mother was the real problem . everyone known how your mother grounded aviation industry with corruption because of her love for money ... oh i almost forgotten , what of the other husband in benin city , chris ogiewonyi ? stella odua kidnapped the for almost 30 years now . do n't you see wickedness in stealla nigeria money face ?  meet chief awotona ashipa of ijebu land , baba awotona is a nigerian spiritual healer that provide services for all problems by using spiritual healing powers , bring back lost lovers , boost business , big or small , remove bad luck and bring good luck , stop your marriage financial problems , win court cases no matter what stage on any problem or any condition you shall be solved +2349030442932  the problem lies squarely on the mother , stella . mind u all that she left her first marriage and contracted a second one . she eventually left the second marriage . the two husbands are not igbo . knowing her traits , stella knows very well no igbo man will contemplate marrying her . she may have absconded with the children when the going got sour . and what would u expect than brainwashing . i can tell u here that the husband may have made attempts to reach his children but must have met a brickwall . needless to ask u people whether u know the antecedent of stella . can such a woman stay loyally under any man ? and lastly please do n't drag this into tribal issue . no igbo will endorse a son denigrating his father whether biological or otherwise with such harsh words . it is condemnable . who is sure the son actually wrote that diatribe against his father . for the father asking for the son 's corpse actually shows he is concerned about his children . the mother , stella . mind u all that she left her first marriage and contracted a second one . she eventually left the second marriage . the two husbands are not igbo . knowing her traits , stella knows very well no igbo man will contemplate marrying her . she may have absconded with the children when the going got sour . and what would u expect than brainwashing . i can tell u here that the husband may have made attempts to reach his children but must have met a brickwall . needless to ask u people whether u know the antecedent of stella . can such a woman stay loyally under any man ? and lastly please do n't drag this into tribal issue . no igbo will endorse a son denigrating his father whether biological or otherwise with such harsh words . it is condemnable . who is sure the son actually wrote that diatribe against his father . for the father asking for the son 's corpse actually shows he is concerned about his children . thank u all .  i would rather advice this brother , arrange a meeting between your mother and father before some responsible elders and kins men of your kindred . you can even invite some respected clergy men . thrash the matter face to face , rather than this public forum . its not proper .