How Aregbesola deceived Buhari - PDP
http://dailypost.ng/2016/09/03/aregbesola-deceived-buhari-pdp/

How Aregbesola deceived Buhari -- PDP  The Peoples Democratic Party , PDP , in Osun , has alerted the public on how Governor Rauf Aregbesola allegedly deceived President Muhammadu Buhari on " the truth " behind the Osogbo High School commissioned on Thursday .  A statement signed by its State Chairman , Hon Soji Adagunodo , said the commissioned school was not a public school but one to be managed commercially until the loan taken to build it was repaid .  PDP said : " Contrary to reports presented to the President and the public , the school is more or less a business outfit to charge high fees in an impoverished Osun State .  " In its usual deceptive and propagandist manner , the state Governor did not inform the President and the public that the school was funded with a Sukuk loan and will therefore be run not as a public but high fee paying private school .  " We can reveal that the Oshogbo high school commissioned on Thursday will be managed as a commercial entity by either Olasore The managers are to charge high fees like the elite private schools .  " We want to inform the public that the school Mr President commissioned is different from Oshogbo Grammar School , the reason why both schools are separated by a fence.The Governor has just use a public land to start an educational business venture .  " The public should also note that teachers in the new school will be recruited and paid by the managers.Admissions will be done by them too from all parts of the country . It is , therefore , not a public school .  " While we are in support of projects designed to enhance educational access , we condemn the effrontery of the State Governor for tricking and lying to the President and good people of Osun state . It ? is immoral , reprehensible and against good governance .  " It is criminal to take loans in the name of a people and spend it on a project without benefit for them . These same impoverished citizenry are paying for the loan through their nose . How many Osun fees paying school modelled after Corona school in Lagos ?  " We frown at top level incorrigibility of the APC government in Osun state . We had warned the Governor to review his failed educational policies . This is another demonstration of condemnable insensitivity and inhumanity of a Governor to his citizens , " the statement concluded .  hmmmmmm @mr oladipo or wot did u called ur self pls dis is a matter of osun people okay nd mind u it 's none of ur own business at all , if at all Mr President came all d way from Abuja to commission an ordinary primary school wot is ur own cup of gari.ject out pls  when PDP ruled that state for more than eight years what did they do ? leave the man , whether it 's public or commercial base , it 's one of the development and good infrastructure in the state . leave it pls .  @lanre , when pdp ruled for 8years , there was nothing like fraudulent opon imo.am sure u can remember Osun state university.so if a president is deceived public .......... nawa oooooo