'Edo 'll continue to make progress under APC'
http://thenationonlineng.net/edo-ll-continue-make-progress-apc/

' edo ' ll continue to make progress under apc '  in benin , the capital of edo state , the sights and sounds of the environment are clearly in favour of godwin obaseki .  at every strategic place are the billboards of the all progressives congress ( apc ) candidate , to the extent that people are wondering if he is the only in the race . but , that puzzle is solved by the realisation that a level playing field exists in the state and no party is denied the right of having billboards .  investigations revealed that many are disposed to the candidacy of obaseki , who is widely believed to be a better alternative to the peoples democratic party ( pdp ) candidate .  ' ' my brother , we will vote for apc in this town because we ca n't afford to go back to the years of the pdp . the pdp wasted our time under lucky . pastor is wasting his time . are you not seeing how good the roads are ? this one alone ' a taxi driver , who identified himself as imafidon samuel , said .  his thinking is in tune with what so many others said in benin to the amazement of the visiting team , who never envisaged that level of obaseki 's popularity .  some people believe that the image of governor adams oshiohole is largely working for him . while that may be true , obaseki did not come across as someone , who would walk in anyone 's shadow .  if he succeeds the incumbent , it may not be a bad thing if he takes the latter 's footsteps , given that in eight years , oshiomhole made edo model of good governance . in a state where the delivery of social services was believed never to have been prioritised by those , who governed before oshiomhole , taking after him may not be a bad idea at all .  but , the man at the centre of the election , made it clear that he would optismise the template created by the incumbent in realising his vision for the state .  under him with every sense of clarity .  his connection with the issues driving the race , were indicative of his capabilities at accomplishing the great gubernatorial task ahead .  in line with his tripartite agenda of progress , sound management and good governance , he said he was committed to creating prosperity for every edo indigene and resident .  to achieve this , he aims at rebuilding the civil service into a world-class work environment powered by information and communication technology , ict .  also , resources will be devoted to training and empowering public and civil servants with modern management tools .  obaseki also intends to rework the incentive schemes currently applicable in the public services to encourage better outputs .  he said : ' ' we will streamline and reposition government institutions to more effectively and efficiently deliver the greater good in overall public interest . we will use technology make government more efficient by deploying information and communication technology ( ict ) in internal administration , procurement processing , revenue collection and improving collaboration between and among ministries , departments and is to ensure that not only are salaries paid as at when due but we adjust our model from a minimum wage structure to a living wage structure where civil servants are not financially disadvantaged . "  " prosperity for edo state must also necessarily include a better future for our children and happy retirement for our pensioners . we will clear all outstanding pension owed and ensure that civil servants receive their full entitlement immediately after they retire .  ' ' we will restore edo state as the number one state in sports in nigeria , especially in football where we once held sway as a talent ground .  " our government will develop schemes to encourage artistic output and to encourage the growth of a market for trade in art and craft in edo state with channels for export and exchange with the wider world .  ' ' we will develop a sustainable tourism industry in edo state where the socio-cultural fabric of our host communities will make optimal use of our environmental resources , maintaining essential ecological balances and conserving natural heritage and biodiversity. @ @