I was destined to kill Father Adeyi, kidnapper tells journalists
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/destined-kill-father-adeyi-kidnapper-tells-journalists/

i was destined to kill father adeyi , kidnapper tells journalists  abuja -- nigerian police special anti-kidnapping squad attached to the inspector general of police monitoring unit at force headquarters , has arrested the kidnappers and killers of reverend father john adeyi , parish priest of st. bernard 's , okpoga parish , diocese of oturkpo , benue state , who was abducted on april 24 .  the suspects . inset : late reverend father john adeyi .  the arrest of the four-man kidnapping gang came just as the deputy leader of the gang , saidu abdullahi , who confessed to personally shooting the priest , told journalists that he killed the reverend father because it was " destined he will kill him that way . "  other members of the gang paraded at force headquarters yesterday were suleiman gina , gang leader ; aliyu garba and hartuna idi . they confessed to collecting n1.7 million ransom from the family of the cleric after the church refused to pay .  asked why they collected the ransom after killing the victim , abdullahi " we killed him because the vigilantes of the town discovered where we were keeping the priest and they were coming in large numbers to free him . that was why we shot him and ran away . "  the hunt  on the arrest of the kidnappers , force public relations officer , donald awunah , said : " following the directive of the inspector general of police to fish out the culprits , the intelligence response team swung into action .  " between september 1 and 4 , the four suspects were trailed and arrested at different locations in bauchi , enugu and benue states .  " in the course of investigation , they confessed to being the gang responsible for the kidnap and gruesome murder of reverend father adeyi and still collected a ransom of n1.7 million from his family .  " the deputy leader of the gang , saidu abdullahi , voluntarily told police that he fired the fatal shot that killed the reverend father .  " the suspects led police to a bush in orokam area of benue state , where of the reverend father were buried .  " the victim 's nokia lumia phone and another black gicent m9 phone , used in demanding for the ransom , were recovered from the suspects . "  in the same vein , deputy governor of benue state , benson agbowu , who witnessed the parade of the suspects , commended police for the marvellous job of apprehending the culprits , noting that the murder of father adeyi caused outrage not only in benue state , the catholic church , and among the committee of catholic bishops in the country , but up to the vatican city , because they made appeals for the release of the cleric .  describing father adeyi as a gifted priest who catered for widows , the sick and the less privileged , the deputy governor said : " the state had to set up a committee of all security agencies with a mandate to look for and secure the release of the reverend father . "  ' carrot-and-stick over '  on the present situation of crime in the state , agbowu said : else in benue state . taase , alias ghana , one of the kingpins of crime even established an empire .  " when we came on board , our governor introduced a carrot-and-stick approach by calling on all criminals to surrender their arms and renounce crime for some sort of understanding .  " the said ghana came out and over 700 other criminals said they were buying into the governor 's programme and over 800 arms were recovered . we thought we have made progress . but in recent times , the criminals are back and are making life unbearable for the people .  " having used the carrot approach , we are now using the stick approach . we are now going after the criminals in their houses , dens and as a result of this , in the last few months , crime has reduced drastically . "