LG POLLS: OGSIEC, LP clash over court case
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2016/09/lg-polls-ogsiec-lp-clash-court-case/

LG POLLS : OGSIEC , LP clash over court case  ABEOKUTA -- The Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission , OGSIEC and Labour Party , LP , in the state , yesterday , engaged in war of words over a court case involving the two of them .  This came as the Assistant Inspector-General of Police , Zone 2 , Abdulmajeed Ali read a riot act to all stakeholders in the forthcoming October 8 local government election in Ogun State , urging them to adhere strictly to the electoral law or face full wrath of the law .  OGSIEC and LP almost turned the stakeholders ' forum on Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas , LCDAs elections by Committee for Defence of Human Rights in the state .  The Labour Party had dragged OGSIEC , the state governor , Senator Ibikunle Amosun , the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice , Olumide Ayeni and the chairman of the Commission , Risikat Ogunfemi before the State High Court over alleged exclusion of the party from the coming election .  Attempts by the state programme , which was attended by political parties cleared for the election , failed as the organiser objected to his observation .  While the LP insisted that the issue relating to local government elections should not be discussed until the court decides their matter , the OGSIEC said , there was no court order that barred it from conducting the election .  Speaking with newsmen after the forum , Arabambi said the case has not been decided , yet , " OGSIEC declared that we have no case . "  He alleged that OGSIEC wanted to manipulate Ogun Judiciary in its favour .  But speaking through its Chairman Screening committee , Mutiu Agboke said the commission would go ahead to conduct the election .  Agboke said the commission had not received any court judgement the ordered it to stop the process of the election .  AIG reads riot act  Meanwhile , AIG in charge of Zone 2 , Mr Ali gave the warning at the Stakeholders ' Forum organised by Committee for the Defence of Human Rights ( CDHR ) in conjunction with OGSIEC of Police , Training and Development Ogun State Command , Azuka Jude , pointed out that electoral offences attract punishment .