Economy: Buhari "ll take Nigeria to promised land - Osinbajo
https://www.niyitabiti.net/2016/09/economy-buhari-ll-take-nigeria-to-promised-land-osinbajo/

Economy : Buhari " ll take Nigeria to promised land -- Osinbajo  By Levinus Nwabughiogu ? ABUJA -- Even in the apparent midst of helpless situation , Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has expressed confidence in his principal , President Muhammadu Buhari 's ability to take Nigeria out of the present economic challenges . He said that the administration would surely rescue the country and take Nigerians across the red-sea into the promise land . The assurance was contained in Osinbajo 's remark at the 56th Independence Anniversary Interdenominational Church Service at the National Christian Centre , Abuja on Sunday . The Vice President charged the people not to be deterred by the economic recession , assuring that there would be light at the end of the tunnel . " We are on our way out of the wilderness . We should not be like children of Israel when He took them out of Egypt and after few problems became grumblers-in-chief . " As children of God we must declare this nation will prosper , we must be like our father who is the great encourager . good encourage , do not be dismayed , every Nigeria will benefit from the new Nigeria . " God saw our nation and decided to put this leadership in place , this leadership will take us across the red sea to the new Nigeria " , Osinbajo said . In his message at the event , the President of Christian Association of Nigeria ( CAN ) , Rev. Dr. Samson Supo Ayokunle , said that the country 's leaders needed divine revelation and wisdom to tackle the economic challenges . He reasoned that the country ought not have been in the quagmire if the previous administrations had saved for the rainy . He however admonished the government to look beyond the Federal Executive Council , FEC , and accommodate external opinions to realign the economy . He said : " They were siphoning the resources for their pockets . We got into this also because of our inability to diversify . We killed our agriculture for oil . " We are all responsible for the self-imposed trouble . There is hope , help will come from above for Nigeria . There we seek Him " . The CAN president also stated that the judgment of God was coming on all those that looted the economy which he said that put Nigeria on the difficult pedestal . " When you have left office , what will you be remembered for ? " He queried " Judgment of God is coming . The corrupt Nigerians that have not been apprehended will not escape the judgment of God " , he said . He urged the government to restore religious studies and discipline in schools . The scriptures read included Isaiah 60 : 9 to 20 and 1st Chronicle 12:32 . The 1st scripture reading was taken from Ezekiel 37 : 1 to 14 by a representative of the judiciary . The 2nd scripture reading was taken from Romans 8 : 28 to 39 by the Chief of Defence State , General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin . Intercessary prayers were offered for President Buhari , Osinbajo and other members of the executive arm as well as the Nigerian nation , security and economic challenges . The same were made for the legislature and the judiciary , the church . Dignitaries at the occasion included the Secretary to the Government of the Federation , Babachir David Lawal , Wife of the Vice President , Dolapo Osinbajo , Bayelsa State Governor , Sarieke Dickson , former Vice President , Alex Ekwueme , Senator Olurunibe Mamora , Senate President , Bukola Saraki was represented by Senator Bernabas Gemade . The post Economy : Buhari " ll take Nigeria to promised land -- Osinbajo appeared first on Vanguard News .