Axa Mansard Investment launches 2 new mutual funds
https://www.niyitabiti.net/2016/09/axa-mansard-investment-launches-2-new-mutual-funds/

Axa Mansard Investment launches 2 new mutual funds  By Nkiruka Nnorom AXA Mansard Investments Limited , the asset management subsidiary of AXA Mansard Group , has launched two new Mutual Funds -- the AXA Mansard Money Market Fund and the AXA Mansard Equity Income Fund as part of its commitment to deliver superior value to investors . The funds were created to cater to the savings and investment needs of individual and corporate clients , and give investors a platform to achieve their short to long term financial goals . The AXA Mansard Money Market Fund is designed for investors with low risk appetite looking to maximize interest income in short-tenored securities , while the AXA Mansard Equity Income Fund is suitable for investors with higher risk appetite , seeking income and capital growth through a portfolio of attractively valued dividend paying stocks . Speaking at the launch in Lagos , Deji Tunde-Anjous , CEO , AXA Mansard Investments Limited , said the launch of both products is in line with the company 's promise to deliver investment solutions built around clients ' needs , goals Fund aims to achieve competitive returns for investors who require regular and capital protection , while the AXA Mansard Equity Income Fund helps investors maximize long-term income and capital appreciation by investing significantly in undervalued listed stocks that pay attractive and growing dividends . Combining both , investors can build a low cost investment plan towards meeting their short to long term goals , Tunde-Anjous said . " Commenting on the launch of the products , Yomi Onifade , Non-Executive Director , AXA Mansard Investments Limited said : " During this period of significant economic pressure , the importance of augmenting one 's income using safe and accessible means can not be overemphasized . Mutual Funds provide a unique opportunity for individuals to do this , while diversifying their investments across a broad range of instruments that they may ordinarily not be opportuned to hold . With our Funds , clients also get excellent service and professional investment management ; empowering them to live better lives . The simplicity of these products along with their attributes exemplify our unwavering drive to create exceptional value for all our clients . " AXA on behalf of the AXA Mansard Group and other investors across traditional equities , money market and fixed income instruments , as well as alternative asset classes ( real estate and private e quity ) . The post Axa Mansard Investment launches 2 new mutual funds appeared first on Vanguard News .