House suspension: Court to hear Jibrin's suit October 21
http://thenationonlineng.net/house-suspension-court-hear-jibrins-suit-october-21/

house suspension : court to hear jibrin 's suit october 21  a federal high court in abuja has fixed october 21 for hearing of the suit by suspended former chairman , appropriation committee , house of representatives , abdulmumin jibrin .  jibrin , from kano state , is , with the suit , challenging his suspension from the house . a committee of the house of reps . on october 28 suspended him for 180 legislative days .  his lawyer , abdulhamid muhammed told the court friday that the house elected to suspend his client in spite of the pendency of his suit filed august 9 , 2016 with which he had originally , sought to restrain the house of rep leadership from proceeding with the plan to suspend him .  the case which could not be heard during the court 's vacation by justice okon abang , has since been assigned to justice john tsoho .  muhammed said , by suspending his client , the house has " over-reached " his client 's motion filed before the court for orders of .  he proceeded to withdraw his client 's fundamental rights enforcement application on the grounds that it was overtaken by events .  justice tsoho said since the court 's business friday was for the mention of the case , it was safer to adjourn to a later date for the hearing of all pending motions .  besides the processes filed by jibrin , other motions awaiting the court 's hearing is the preliminary objection by the defendants challenging the court 's jurisdiction to hear the case .  defendants ' lawyer , kalu onuoha said he was confortable with the court 's position .  jibrin , in the substantive suit , seeks among others , a declaration that the defendants are bound to comply with the provisions of sections 49 , 54 , 56 and 60 of the 1999 constitution and the standing orders of the house of reps , regulating its sitting , procedure and other matters in the conduct of its legislative functions as provided in the constitution and the standing orders made pursuant to the constitution .  he also wants the court to meeting held on august 3 , 2016 to suspend the plaintiff as a member of the house of reps without granting him the right to fair hearing is unlawful .