Buhari says he will continue blaming past administrations for ...
http://dailypost.ng/2016/09/30/buhari-says-will-continue-blaming-past-administrations-nigerias-woes/

president muhammadu buhari has said he will continue to blame past administrations for the current economic challenges facing the country .  speaking at an event tagged " the conversation : an evening with creative youths , " at the banquet hall of the presidential villa in abuja , buhari said passing the bulk was important in order for nigerians to know what went wrong with the country .  according to him , " i am going to bore you with what we met . i know that i am being accused in the papers of passing the buck , but passing the buck is sometimes absolutely necessary to remind people who take things for granted .  " when we came in , i screamed to high heavens because i had promised a lot while seeking votes .  " i said where is the saving ? there was no saving . there was no infrastructure , power , rails , roads , there was none . what did we spend the money on ? i was told buying food and petrol .  " and found out that the oil marketers were committing fraud on at least one third ? of what they were importing , which is about 25 per cent of our foreign exchange .  ? " the youth must watch our elite , especially with the condition we found ourselves . it is unpatriotic for anybody to pretend that economically we have no problem .  " i have bored you with this long explanation because there are things that could be hidden from you by those that have mismanaged the country in the last 16 , 17 years . "  buhari had come under heavy attack by some nigerians for his sustained laying of blames on his predecessors for the country 's current woes .  but , mr president , majority the same people who mismanaged the economy for 16 years are the same old criminals in the corridor of power under your regime and watch . most of them are yet to declare their assets before ccb . my only reservation at buhari 's style of leadership is his selective prosecution and persecution .  this is good . blaming past administration is foolishness . the military era of which buhari was a part did nothing to improve the lot of nigerians . why is he not blaming the era of military junta or ' maradona ' babangid , who intituted official corruption ? why is he not blaming abacha ? am sure he dare not blame obasanjo nor yar addua but since jonathan is the only civilian and from the south who has ruled nigeria , his pathological hatred for them will not allow him not to blame them . i pity this contraption called nigeria with men like this in charge of our affairs . if there is any one to blame , buhari should be blamed for scuttling a democratically elected leaders in 1983 . he used the barrel of the gun to come to power . perhaps if he had not done that our democracy will have grown more than 16 years to about 28years. his interregnum took us 12 years backward when other democracies were moving forward . now he want to drag us back to 1998 in the name of nothing was power maniac .  the story of nigeria today is the story of the fisherman and the herdsman . nigerians complained that the fisherman 's fishing expeditions feeds them with crayfish only so ; the herdsman went round displaying cow leg and assuring them that if they abandon the fisherman and follow him they are sure to feed on cow leg instead of crayfish . trust nigerians , they abandoned the fisherman . one year five months after , the herdsman has led them through a thick dark forest and landed everybody in a desert , tired and weary , the nigerians ask for water , the herdsman tells them that the fisherman dried the ocean and that is why they are in a desert . in any case the herdsman assures that if they search very well they will find an oasis . that is where nigerians are today .  somebody should remand this president that the past administration of military did not save anything for 40 years.and pdp did inherits any savings from them in fact you also become a past president and we will see if you is synonimous with blame.pls resign and save yourself from embarasment.allow a capable person who will pull us out of recession and not one who will also use blame to cover up incompetence like yourself ( buhari ) .  that is why you mr president will continue to be a blocked headed fool , did pdp meet any money 16 years ago when they came in ? the answer is no , or when you were head of state then , did you save any money ? the truth is obvious to us that your clueless , keep blaming , 2019 is all most her , then we all will be glad to let you know how we feel about you blame game , fool .  we are taught you must blame your father , your sisters , your brothers , theschool , the teachers -- but never blame yourself . it 's never your fault . but it 's always your fault , because if you wanted to change you 're the one whohas got to change.katharine hepburn  let him continue to blame them till his 4yrs complete mr clueless you can not do without blame games because you and your government are as confused as you are ? have you ever seen a corrupt man as you are fighting corruption no  a man bad workman always quarrels with his tools . no man can give what he do n't have an illiterate president and those that educated are thousands of miles away buhari is only fooling himself , why did he overthrow shehu shagari democratically elected govt ? when buhari was booted out of of by his next of kin , the evil genius , ibb , how much money did he save ? our crude oil and gas money , niger delta regions , started missing under buhari watch at the petroleum ministry , #2.8 billion oil money got missed during his stewardship and abacha gave #100 billon to him to manage the ptf then , what he do not it ? did buhari gave accounts of how the money was spent and for what purposes ? it was during army rule that nigeria govt was referred as lootocracy , of which buhari was parts and it was indeed hunger and starvations , poverty , killings , stealing , kidnapping , robberies , faslifications , lues , propagandas , rumors of deads and strives , all sorts of vices was let loosed on the masses , if that was not enough , it was buhari reign of terrify and tyranny , an ibo woman was tied at stake , like a common crinminal , and shot dead in the public views , something that has never happened in this country , even in real war situations , women and children are not killed for what ever reasons , but buhari did , is that not wonderful ? today buhari has come to power again , courtesy of untrained and illiterate almajris from the north , backup by yoruba born betrayals from the southwest , for 15 months buhari has been in power , as usual its hunger and starvations , miseries , and criminalities , just as of old in 1983 down to 1985 when buhari was sacked , jubilations throughout nigeria , at least , the wicked and tyrannical myopic was out for good . therefore this country , supporting buhari is a bitter enemy of the state of nigeria , he is number one enemy of the masses . the question now is how will the she same masses get raid of him ? right now buhari is nigeria 's greatest problem , this the bitter truth , the north and southwest do n't to hear , but no matter how truth is suppressed , just one day , it will force itself out .  buhari , why wasting your time responding to criticism from jonthan 's agents of corruption hanging around media ? they know at the bottoms of their hearts that jonathan and cronies emptied the treasury and the stolen monies became abundant in circulation to give impression that the economy was growing.they are also aware that price of oil the main source of govt income falled by more than 90%. again , they know and involve in halting oiproduction output.if buhari has no revenue at his disposal with what is he going to finance developmental projects ? is he going to sell his cows or what ? but one thing is sure into diversified economy and it will quickily recover and critics put to shame  if buhari does not know what to do , the best option for him to honourably resign instead of blaming past leaders for his own failures and cluelesness . buhari and apc are the biggest fraud in this nation .