NIS recruitment trial: Witness reveals how Senators lobbied for slots
http://dailypost.ng/2016/09/30/nis-recruitment-trial-witness-reveals-senators-lobbied-slots/

nis recruitment trial : witness reveals how senators lobbied for slots  a retired civil servant and principal witness ( pw2 ) at the ongoing trial of the botched recruitment into the nigeria immigration service , mr. sylvanus dankano tapgun has revealed that part of the reasons why the senate committees on interior and federal character invited the board and officials of the ministry of interior in 2013 was to negotiate the number of slots each senator could get from the available positions .  mr. tapgun who was a director at the ministry of interior and secretary to the board for civil defence , fire , immigration and prisons service ( bcdfip ) also explained to the court on friday how the stampede at the national stadium abuja came about .  " at earlier hours on the day of the recruitment test , the comptroller in charge of fct command called to inform us that a lot of applicants slept at the gates to the national stadium the previous night and that by 6am of saturday 15th march , the whole entrances were already crowded  " it was in the process that the western gate got removed and fell on top of those applicants inside the stadium and they were also trampled upon by those who forced their way from outside " , tapgun said .  on the invitation of the board by the senate during online registration , mr. tapgun explained that " there were invitations from the federal character commission ( fcc ) , senate committee on interior and senate committee on federal character . they sought to know how many slots they were going to get from the recruitment exercise " .  like the former comptroller-general of immigration , mr. david paradang who is also a witness to the prosecution , efcc in the matter ; mr. tapgun , however , admitted that there was no fund or budget for the recruitment exercise and that it was the contracting firm , drexel tech nigeria limited who " graciously " sponsored the march 15th 2014 recruitment exercise by mobilising the comptrollers in each of the 37 commands in nigeria , even though it was not part of their agreement .  , aliyu m. yusuf ( esq ) moved for an adjournment to enable the witness tender all his exhibits .