MAMA 2016: Olamide, Patoranking, Nasty C turn the heat up at ...
http://pulse.ng/buzz/mama-2016-olamide-patoranking-nasty-c-turn-the-heat-up-at-road-to-mama-id5560777.html

besides looking out for who 's going to be nominated at any upcoming mtv africa music awards ( mama ) , one other thing everyone looks forward to is the road to mama tour .  this year 's lagos leg of the tour which held on sunday , october 2 , 2016 at the hard rock cafe was turnt not just because it was an mtv party or because the drinks were free , it was the music and the way it was delivered .  lights , djs and illustations  before the show kicked off , there was a press conference where the final list of the mama nominees reveals nominations in seven award categories including artist of the year , best female and song of the year .  as guest arrived for the party , mtv base refreshed guests with canap ? , a never ending well of drinks and music . it was a very visual event - graffiti artist osa gave people something to look at and bowl over as he brought to life inscriptions on a blank white canvas around the ground floor provided visuals to go with the music .  the crowd this year was an interesting mix , apart from the lagos crowd , viacom international media network africa clients , there were party rockers from ghana and south africa present .  apart from the performances , one thing mtv base never jokes with at their show are the music pied pipers aka the djs . at any mtv concert or party there 's bound to be at least three djs ! and they all get to play their set . the dj 's of the night were dj hazan , dj ttb , dj humility who played before the main show and dj xclusive and dj kaywise who played a set after the performance . each one of them brought on their a-game especially humility who decide to showcase his skills are remind us why he 's a battle dj .  the performances  the first performance kicked off at 11:48pm with koker performing his singles ' do something ' and ' kolewerk ' . the chocolate city signee warmed up the staged for c is a 19 year old rapper who most nigerians know for featuring davido on the remix of his single ' juice back ' alongside cassper nyovest . the rapper might be a freshman but he 's definitely got it .  his confidence is commendable - he stood in front of a crowd of people who were not familiar with his music and yet he still had everyone cheering and moving to his music . his lyric delivery was seamless and his crowd engagement was on point . at the end of his performance , i was sold - whatever nasty c is selling i 'm buying !  following this ycee came on with his laid back delivery starting off his set with ' condo ' . the rapper brought on a twist and performed a yet to be released single of his titled ' back to front ' for the first time and then he did a number on ' omo alhaji ' ; giving it a house a south african house and pop vibe . he also performed ' in a benz ' and ' jagaban ' performance , no one was expecting the energy levels to get lowered when the organizers introduced simi next . the singer came on with her alternative vibes and mellow sounds that calmed us down . olamide proved that he was the turn up king as he commanded everyone to dance with his music .  backed by his ybnl dj , dj eni money and radio presenter/hypeman do2tun , the rapper had the crowd screaming , dancing and singing along . he performed ' who you ep ' , ' konkonbility ' , ' do n't stop ' , ' abule sowo ' as well as songs her featured on ' fada fada ' and ' the money ' .  do you ever witness anything interesting or exciting ? just take out your phone and send us the exclusive pictures or video and we will pay you cash . more information here or just e-mail to eyewitness@pulse.ng or what 's app to 09098947580 . please include what , who , when , where , why .