Chelsea's N'Golo Kante will join very big European club - Garande
https://www.today.ng/sport/197055/chelseas-ngolo-kante-join-big-european-club-garande

n'golo kante has always had a plan for his career and will join " a very , very big european club " if he leaves chelsea , his former coach at caen has said .  chelsea paid around ? 30 million to sign kante from premier league champions leicester city in the summer , capitalising on a release clause included in the frenchman 's contract when he moved to the king power stadium from caen for ? 5.6m just 12 months earlier .  kante will face leicester for the first time since the move at stamford bridge on saturday , adding another chapter to a remarkable story that has seen him rise from the french third division to one of european football 's biggest clubs in just three years .  and patrice garande , the caen manager who signed kante from national side boulogne in 2013 , believes his former player could scale even greater heights .  " i think from the moment n'golo came to us in ligue 2 he had a career plan but without trying to go too quickly , the ground , and that is why he did two seasons with us , and then left . it 's he who decides .  " i thought leicester city was a good choice and one that suited him , because in his mind going to england in a club like that was a step towards going even higher . he has had a rapid rise , but it has been progressive .  " he was in ligue 2 , then ligue 1 . he goes to england with leicester , they win the premier league . then he goes to chelsea , and after that he 'll go to a very , very big european club , that 's for sure .  advertisement  " when he wanted to leave leicester , there were a lot of clubs who wanted him , and it was he who decided to go to chelsea . he 's not someone on whom you can impose a decision ... you ca n't really influence him . he listens , but it 's always him who makes the decisions . "  garande squad in time for euro 2016 and impressed as didier deschamps ' men reached the final on home turf -- turned down an approach to represent mali at international level during his two-year spell at caen .  " i had talked to him at that time , because he had n't chosen to play for france , " garande said . " he could also have played for mali . they wanted him to , he did n't . i often talked to him about the french national team , telling him : ' there is n't a player like you , with your profile in midfield ' .  " i always thought he would be an international . he has an incredible ability . he came into ligue 2 , he observed , and got up to that level . he came into ligue 1 , he observed , and he got up to that level , and was very good . when he went to england , at first he played 20 minutes , then a half , then a bit more . after that , he " he played for france in a position that is n't his at euro 2016 , in front of the back four , and he was brilliant . he has incredible potential and he 's also a very intelligent boy who has his feet on the ground , who takes things step-by-step . he analyses everything that goes on around him . "  keep up with latest local and international news by following today.ng on twitter and facebook.