Is Khloe Kardashian really Pregnant with her 25-Year Old ...
https://www.bellanaija.com/2016/11/is-khloe-kardashian-really-pregnant-with-her-25-year-old-boyfriends-baby/

according to the exclusive report by x17online.com , khloe kardashian is pregnant with her 25-year old basketballer boyfriend tristan thompson 's baby .  the report states that the 32-year old reality tv star is pregnant but wants to do things in a traditional way so tristan " plans on flying into town this weekend to ask kris jenner for khloe 's hand in marriage ! true to form , though , the momager knows all about the plan and has already purchased a range rover for thompson as a " welcome to the family " gift . our source tells us : " khloe and kris want everything done correctly . they do n't want this to look like an accident and khloe really wants to show the world that tristan is her man . she wants to kind of follow tradition and have tristan ask her mom for permission to propose , in hopes of making the engagement look more traditional and formal . " "  interestingly , tristan currently has another baby on the way with ex-girlfriend jordan craig .  poor boy be a woman , become obese and incognito , start ranting on twitter or loose sence of purpose in life ( let him ask bruce rob kanye or lamar and scott ) its a kardashian curse boy u re in for it .  " she wants to do things in a traditional way ... " , if that 's the case , should n't she/they have gotten married first ? he is n't married to first pregnant now ex-girlfriend , so ample opportunity to follow the ' traditional ' route .  do n't come and form demure and traditional things after the fact , people .  i am happy for khloe , but on this one , i suggest she tolls kourtney 's line and not marry anyone ! and yes it does nt make it right but all this short dating and marriage immediately has nt shown that it is the right route for the kardashians . please learn from the past .  na wah o is this true ? if so khloe loves drama ! why ca n't she just find a guy without drama issues ..... now this small boy with an ex who is currently pregnant with his child ... allegedly ...