Ooni of Ife will Marry 2nd Wife this Weekend
http://www.bellanaija.com/2016/03/ooni-of-ife-will-marry-2nd-wife-this-weekend/

It amazing the Ooni is marrying a girl who has been married 3 times and has changed her names so many times to hide her identity .... I mean who changes names so frequently in Naija This woman story no be here ooo Best of luck to them  I have friends that changed names o ! They finish using one name , then move on to another . This one babe had been promiscuous and stealing from her parents since we were kids ( I now wonder what made such a little girl so sexual ) ... anyways by uni " Arsito stage " , she had changed to her middle name ... now on facebook " Lagos big girl stage " , she uses one random English name ... when asked she said it 's her new name from getting baptized at Daystar .  Apparently the Ooni is unperturbed by all these derogatory comments all over the blogs about his wife to be . If God says YES , no man can say NO . Is he supposed to un-propose to her and then comments ? Marriage sometimes has nothing to do with the chastity of a woman . Its the new wife 's luck shining . Many men go ahead anyway , once they truly LOVE the woman .  Wish them well , but wish OOni 's former wife much better in her life sojourn  The RSVPs are the bride 's uncle , John Obayuwana , Chairman of Polo Luxury , and the Ooni of Ife 's sister , Princess Folasade Fadairo . See name drop o and one of the evil sisters had to be mentioned too , eish .  message to the next wife : HML dear Olori , i hope in your interest that u will born . First wife did not born , No side chic ever claimed pregnancy ; none we know about . na only babymama back in d days who had a girl ; I 'm not saying something is wrong with Ooni o. naija men are blameless Just do everything in your power to have a child and dance to the sisters ' tune , since Ooni seems to have difficulties in managing tun tun better be ready to obey EVERY single command of her MIL and her SILs . She should go into this marriage knowing fully well , she will have no say in the affairs of her home . She must give birth and be quick about it and she must not at any point resort to jazz because Ooni 's jazz will eradicate her own . E kabo ! ! ! The first wife has truly gained her freedom .  Upon all the tea on dis girl wedding is still holding . I admire her hustle sha , while loads of single girls are still searching for ' the one ' . This girl is finding her 's for the 3rd time . Congratulations  Why are you people commenting when you do n't understand Yoruba culture . It is culture for a king to be polygamous . Stop making this personal and get over yourself . Culture is NOT going anywhere no matter how technology advances . My sister is not a king but it is culture for a king to be polygamous -- get over yourself . about African men strengthening ties with their penises ! lmao ... what will someone not read from this blog ?  Anywhoozies ... Ooni carry go ! You are the immortal Yoruba demon ... We all know this babe was a side chick before he became the king right ? Abeg lemme go and join the queue ... makoja mi olugbala okin she orin akunleko !  But the girl is already an expert in seeking help outside for impotent men according to SDK . So she will be able to help Yeye cover his impotency . They are both match made in heaven . Calculating , vain , users and no souls people .  maybe if you guys knew a little tradition , you will not be spewing such ignorances. anyway , because of the long history between Ife and Benin kingdom , all oonis of Ife have to take a benin bride . in the past , the oba of benin sent a benin maiden to a newly appointed ooni in Ife , the idea is the strengthen the ties and basically mix the 2 royal bloods. i of those everything just gelled kind of arrangements .  AssumIng all the things written about her are true , she trully deserves a happy ending ! ! I honestly do n't believe any female enjoy jumping from one man to another , a lot of them are just victims of their circumstances .  In the spirit of sisterhood , we should have some compassion and hope this is the happily ever after , she 's being searching for .  I for one will be routing for her and will hug her tighter on her joyous day ! ! ? ? ? ?