Siasia axe Iroha from U-23 Eagles
http://footballlive.ng/footballnews/9ja-news/siasia-axe-iroha-from-u-23-eagles/

siasia axe iroha from u-23 eagles  the technical crew of the u-23 national team , dream team , has dropped both chukwuebuka iroha and oluwaseun ? olulayo for not measuring up to the standard expected of them in camp since resumption of training programme.the crew said it was disappointed with the level of fitness displayed by the duo who were part of the team that triumphed at the africa u-23 cup of nations in senegal in december 2015 , and warned that no player is guaranteed automatic shirt to the olympics in rio de janeiro .  in a related development , super eagles ' head coach , samson siasia has directed that three players , namely segun oduduwa , usman mohammed and stanley dimgba should no longer report to the super eagles camp , as punishment for reporting late to the dream team camp without permission . siasia stated that the affected players are no longer part of his plans for the egypt game , so should concentrate on the friendly against brazil with the dream team .  in a bid to beef up invitation to rangers of enugu player obinna nwobodo , who is expected to report to camp immediately with the other rangers players on monday .  bundesliga  results/fixtures  opinion poll  who will win ballon d'or 2016 ?  live scores  recent comments  abiodun ayodele on siasia gambles with mls champion ... but who is fanendo adii would have preferred obafemi martin to little known adi . if we judge by performance rating , martins is better and we need all of best legs for the two legged affair.super eagles team should should for tested and trusted legs for make or mar encounter.but then siasia is up to his game and knows why he included him in the list.i am sure he still have him in his future plan.he ca n't invite every player for a match.other qualifiers are stil there .  anonymous on nff hand siasia blank check for egypt qualifiersnigeria may not have qualified when siasia was in charge but you will agree with me that austine eguaveon had already done the damage before siasia was asked to take charge.let 's rally round siasia in the country for now .  anonymous on nff hand siasia blank check for egypt qualifiersam still at a loss with the way we do things in this country . a siasia that failed to qualify nigeria for 2012 afcon from a relatively easy group that had the likes of guinea and congo is now considered the messiah to take us to the next one . mtcheeeeeewwww ... what a macabre circus dance !