Arsenal vs Barcelona: 3 Things To Watch For
http://paininthearsenal.com/2016/03/16/arsenal-vs-barcelona-3-things-to-watch-for/

arsenal vs barcelona : 3 things to watch for  arsenal have never found the word impossible to be appealing . here are three things to watch for as they seek to accomplish the impossible .  even though most barcelona fans do n't want to admit it , arsenal hung with the catalan giants for an hour at the emirates . the only problem is that a football match is an hour and a half , and as such , arsenal fell 2-0 . but the class was there to hang with them , not to mention it was in the midst of a bad run .  i still hold this bizarre faith that arsenal is one positive performance away from clicking and making everything make sense . whatever it needs to be triggered by feels like it is just within reach . that being said , to expect to find it here would be a fool 's endeavor . although there is a small piece of me that wants to predict an arsenal win , just in case . but i wo n't . prediction : arsenal 1-3 barcelona  3 ) who will score ?  is this a recurring question that i am asking in every match preview ? absolutely . because until arsenal answers it , it needs to continue to be asked . arsenal simply do not have anyone that can consistently put in goals . i have vouched for giroud to be on the brink of turning a corner for the past two months . it 's a good thing i did n't hold my breath .  giroud is struggling , alexis is out of ideas , welbeck is an enigma and ozil can not do it all on his own . so who is going to step up and put more than one goal past barcelona ? great question . that 's why i asked it .  david ospina has actually done a swell job filling in for petr cech , but he is still most certainly not petr cech . however , ospina is another of the wild card sort that , when he 's on top of his game , looks hard to beat . is going to be under heavy fire and if he starts to struggle , it could get incredibly ugly . but as mentioned , if he stays grounded , we could see something special .  1 ) alexis ca n't be this bad .  alexis is starting to come up in many people 's list of notable arsenal busts . however , the chilean still has that undeniable potential to be amazing . he just has to be a little inventive , which he has remarkably lost the ability to do . it still makes sense that if he were going to go that extra mile ( which , admittedly , he does try to do every match ) that it would be against barcelona .