In Abuja"Centenary City Developers want parallel authority" - Minister
http://pulse.ng/local/in-abuja-centenary-city-developers-want-parallel-authority-minister-id4815283.html

Nigeria 's Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) Abuja , Muhammad Sani Bello , has said that developers of Abuja Centenary Projects are seeking to operate a parallel authority other than subjecting itself to the administration .  Bello stated this on Wednesday , 16 March , 2016 during a public hearing on the Centenary project organized by the Senate Committee on the FCT .  Malam Bello revealed that the Centenary City Plc wrote the FCT Administration requesting for the revocation of a valid development agreement which was duly executed by the two parties as a pre-condition to access over 1 , 200 hectares of land for the development of the city .  " Frankly speaking the Centenary City Plc is seeking to operate a parallel authority within the FCT . If not , how do you explain a situation where by the company is asking for the cancelation of the agreement between us and them only to enforce a third party agreement signed between them and another government agency " Bello said .  Pulse gathered that centenary City Plc. also project .  A statement signed by Abubakar Sani , media aide to the FCT minister , said the project was unique and well-conceived idea but insisted that the earlier agreement clearly spelt out the obligations of each party in the project .  The minister said the arrangement which the company is trying to implement was reached between it and the Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority ( NEPZA ) which was signed after the company had earlier entered into a pact with the FCT Administration which qualified it to embark on the project .  " It can be clearly seen that implementing the NEPZA agreement in the Centenary city would be tantamount to having two governments in one city " the minister added .  Chairman , of the committee , Senator Dino Melaye said they were eager to know the challenges that have hindered the smooth implementation of the Centenary city project .  He said the project which was conceived as a land mark for the attainment of Nigeria 's one hundred years as a nation would be of immense benefit to the country which the senate make sure the project is realized .