Omisore Sacks Osun PDP from 'Rented' Party Secretariat
http://www.nigerianbulletin.com/threads/omisore-sacks-osun-pdp-from-%E2%80%98rented%E2%80%99-party-secretariat.212071/

Politics Omisore Sacks Osun PDP from ' Rented ' Party Secretariat  A former Deputy Governor of Osun State , Senator Iyiola Omisore , may have sacked a faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state from its secretariat located at Ogo-Oluwa , along Osogbo-Gbongan Road .  The tactical ejection of the faction of the PDP from the secretariat is a direct fallout of the crisis rocking the party in the state over the congresses to elect leaders of the party from ward level to state level .  Omisore , it was learnt , rented the party secretariat and had been the one paying rent on the property located in the heart of Osogbo , the state capital .  While a faction of the party which has majority of the party leaders held a congress which produced Mr. Soji Adagunodo-led executives , the Dr. Bayo Faforiji faction which is enjoying the support of Omisore stayed away from the congress .  Omisore 's faction said they had got an injunction restraining the party from holding the congress .  PUNCH gathered on Monday a new place around Otaefun area along Ikirun Road .  A source close to Omisore confirmed the development said " He ( Omisore ) rented this secretariat and he is the one paying the rent so there is no way those ones ( other faction ) can come here with what they have done .  The newly elected secretary of the PDP in Osun State , Mr. Bola Ajao , when contacted said the party had moved to a new secretariat along Ikirun Road .  Company  News Hub  Article Hub  Video Hub  Social  Subscribe  NigerianBulletin.com is one of Nigeria 's leading on-line destinations for the latest Nigerian trending news and updates , helpful articles and a community sharing the best , latest information on Nigeria and things that concern Nigerians . Some of the topics we cover include Nigerian political news , metro , sports , business and entertainment . In addition we provide articles on careers , health , technology , travel and money . These articles are designed to help Nigerians make informed decisions in their every day personal and @ @ @