Two Oil Thieves Sentenced To Six Years In Jail
http://www.nta.ng/news/20160615-two-oil-thieves-sentenced-to-six-years-in-jail/

two oil thieves sentenced to six years in jail  wilson uwujaren , abuja : justice e.a obile of the federal high court , calabar , cross river state on tuesday , june 14 , 2016 convicted and sentenced paul etim and okon edet okon to 6 years imprisonment each without an option of fine , on a 2-count charge of illegal dealing in petroleum products preferred against them by the economic and financial crimes commission , efcc .  the convicts were arrested on 27 november , 2011 by officers of the nigerian navy while operating a dug-out wooden boat loaded with 120 drums of automotive gas oil ( ago ) without an appropriate license . on 18 december , 2011 , they were handed to the efcc for further investigation .  upon their arraignment on the 24 january , 2012 , they pleaded not guilty to the charges . while trial was ongoing , two of the accused persons ( imeh effiong and uduak okon ) were reported ill and died of aids at the oron hospital , akwa- ibom state . their death hearing of the matter on tuesday , prosecution counsel , u.r ewoh told the court that on 9 december 2015 , the defense counsel informed him that four of the accused persons ( uwen ante , happier ita etim , edet okon usukunya and happy idaoko ) had a boat mishap and drowned while traveling back after one of their trials . he said that he was served with their death certificates obtained from the national population commission and affidavit of facts . he disclosed that the prosecution is carrying out investigation to ascertain the claim . however , ewoh prayed the court that the names of the four accused persons claimed to be dead be expunged from the charge to enable prosecution continue with its case .  the defense counsel , chuks alilonu did not oppose the application made by the prosecution , but informed the court of his clients ' decision to change their plea .  the charge was read to them and they pleaded guilty . one of the count reads , " that you uwen ante , happier ita etim , edet okon usukunya , edet okon , uduak okon and captain alumbo ( now at large ) on or about the 27th day of november 2011 within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit : illegal dealing in petroleum product and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 3 ( 6 ) and punishable under section 1 ( 7 ) of the miscellaneous offences act cap m17 of the revised edition ( laws of the federation of nigeria ) act 2007 " .  the 2nd count reads , " that you , uwen ante , happier ita etim , edet okon usukunya , imeh effiong , happy idaoko , paul etim , okon edet okon , uduak okon and captain alumbo ( now at large ) on or about the 27th day of november 2011 and 2nd january , 2012 at the calabar waterways in calabar within the jurisdiction of this honourable court without appropriate license deal in petroleum product to wit : a wooden boat loaded with 120 drums of petroleum product and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 1 ( 17 ) ( of the miscellaneous offences act cap m17 of the revised edition ( laws of the federation of nigeria ) act 2007 " .  based on their plea , justice obile found them guilty and sentenced them to six years imprisonment each without an option of fine . the sentence takes effect from their day of arraignment : 24 january , 2012 . the judge also ordered that the wooden boat recovered from the convicts be released to the nigerian navy for destruction .  share this :  a.m tanimu is an online editor with africa 's largest tv network . with a decade experience in television journalism , and a graduate of university of maiduguri . tanimu also produces tv shows with nta when not on social media .