Senator Ben Murray-Bruce May Have Used Union Bank Loan To ...
http://saharareporters.com/2016/06/27/senator-ben-murray-bruce-may-have-used-union-bank-loan-purchase-5m-beverly-hills-mansion

an investigation by saharareporters has revealed that bayelsa senator benjamin murray-bruce may have illegally diverted a loan he obtained from union bank of nigeria to purchase a posh property in beverly hills , california in 2007 . mr. murray-bruce has been in the spotlight lately after the asset management corporation of nigeria ( amcon ) on june 23 , 2016 seized several of his silverbird media companies for failing to make payments on billions of naira in loans .  by saharareporters , new yorkjun 27 , 2016  an investigation by saharareporters has revealed that bayelsa senator benjamin murray-bruce may have illegally diverted a loan he obtained from union bank of nigeria to purchase a posh property in beverly hills , california in 2007 . mr. murray-bruce has been in the spotlight lately after the asset management corporation of nigeria ( amcon ) on june 23 , 2016 seized several of his silverbird media companies for failing to make payments on billions of naira in loans .  mr. murray-bruce , the self-proclaimed commonsense senator , was one of the most vocal senators during the #buynaijatogrowthenaira goods . he touted his reputation for building businesses in nigeria to champion the importance of domestic investment in goods .  several banking sources in nigeria told saharareporters that the n11 billion loan mr. murray-bruce took out from union bank around 2007 was supposed to be used to construct the abuja entertainment center . according to the sources , instead of using the loan to fund his nigerian business operations , mr. murray-bruce diverted it to purchase an opulent property in the beverly hills area of los angeles and london .  the los angeles county property assessor 's office , the real estate records office , and the special investigation unit confirmed to saharareporters that the nigerian senator from bayelsa state purchased a property on august 6th , 2007 and remains the owner . the address is 605 north camden drive , beverly hills , ca 90210 .  a public records search , also confirmed by municipal employees in los angeles county , assessed the value of senator murray-bruce 's land at $3.1 million . the value of the mansion and other structures at the property was estimated beverly hills swanky property has four bedrooms , three bathrooms , and a swimming pool and is estimated to be at least 2,777 square feet . assessments of real estate platforms show that the property is worth $5 million as of today .  saharareporters also obtained a bond receipt document that confirmed mr. murray-bruce 's ties to the property . the document also listed stella albright as having a connection to the property . a public records search of mrs. albright found that she was a board member of a company , dream magic studios llc , alongside mr. murray-bruce .  saharareporters.com is an outstanding , groundbreaking news website that encourages citizen journalists to report ongoing corruption and government malfeasance in africa . using photos , text , and video dynamically , the site informs and prompts concerned african citizens and activists globally to act , denouncing officially-sanctioned corruption , the material impoverishment of its citizenry , defilement of the environment , and the callous disregard of the democratic principles enshrined in the constitution .