Firms begin mass production of peculiar fertilisers to boost food ...
http://www.nigeriatoday.ng/2016/06/firms-begin-mass-production-of-peculiar-fertilisers-to-boost-food-security/

as part of efforts to boost agriculture and ensure food security in the country , four indigenous manufacturing companies have partnered to produce fertilisers suitable for nigerian soils .  the companies -- superphosphate fertilizer and chemicals limited , fertilizer and chemicals limited , indorama and tak -- noted that the brands were product of successful research .  addressing newsmen during a tour of the plants in kaduna yesterday , chairman of superphosphate fertilizer and chemicals limited , alhaji ibrahim shehu birma , said the collaboration was informed by the need to break away from imported fertilisers which most often than not , are not compatible with the local soils .  according to him , the distribution of the products had begun in the southern parts of the country where early rains have started , while those of the middle-belt and the north commenced just recently .  birma said with four million metric tons production capacity yearly , the companies would meet the country 's yearly fertiliser demand .  speaking on the significance of the partnership , the company 's managing director , , which he described as stereotype fertilisers , their were offerings were conscientiously made in consonance with the specifications from the federal ministry of agriculture and rural development .  " the collaboration came as a result of research and development and a lot of scientific work done by the federal ministry of agriculture and rural development . they came up with the type of fertilisers to be used in nigeria and we took up the challenge to produce them .  " it is based on those recommendations from the soil test that we have marked the country into different fertiliser zones . that is why you see different brands of fertilisers being produced to meet different states ' demand , " he said .  abdul-kadir continued : " we have four brands of soil- specific fertilisers for the various soil topographies in nigeria . they are 27-13-13 , 20-10-10 , 12-12-17 and 10-10-5. "