Trout fishing rules changing
http://www.sunlive.co.nz/news/131755-trout-fishing-rules-changing.html

trout fishing rules changing  trout fishing will be prohibited upstream of the awahou steam 's junction with lake rotorua under changes to fishing regulations which come into force in october .  under the new regulations the awahou stream , a tributary of lake rotorua , will be designated ' closed waters ' in the angler 's notice , fish &amp; game has advised .  file photo  the change results from a submission to the eastern fish and game council from ngatirangiwewehi members who live alongside the stream and own the adjoining land and the private access road to the stream mouth .  eastern fish and game council had publicly notified the proposal and consulted with anglers prior to making the decision .  eastern fish &amp; game manager andy garrick says the closure will bring a number of benefits .  " firstly , we recognise the local community 's growing concern over social issues -- including thefts , conflicts between individuals , and the presence of undesirable elements , including poachers . "  the closure would help address what locals the stream a safer place for children and family groups .  " the stream is now targeted by poachers every summer and has become a " hot spot " for us , sparking frequent callouts for our ranging staff . the closure to angling will mean anyone seen fishing there can readily be identified as breaching the regulations . "  andy says that naturally the trout would benefit as well . " closing this section of the awahou stream will provide a cold water refuge for trout stressed by lake rotorua 's rising water temperatures in summer , which drive fish in search of cooler water .  " but it 's important that anglers note they will still be able to access and fish lake rotorua downstream of the landmark pole , where there are ample fishing opportunities through the summer months , " he adds .  the second change focuses on winter shoreline fishing on lake okataina . this area is to be extended by moving the western landmark pole further to the west ( away from the lodge ) .  this will provide further the lake levels are low .  the angling regulation-setting process is undertaken annually , and allows for the eastern fish and game council to hear submissions and recommend alterations to the fishing ' rules and regs ' to the minister of conservation who makes the final call . a full review is carried out every second year .  " we try to consult as widely as possible on these changes and always encourage anglers to have their say . "