ANZ Bank wins in Australian High Court bank fee case
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/industries/82538149

ANZ Bank wins in Australian High Court bank fee case  Australia 's highest court upholds a decision that ANZ Bank was entitled to charge credit card late payment fees of up to A$35 .  A New Zealand group planning a class action against banks over fees is studying a judgement handed down in Australia , which went in ANZ 's favour .  Australia 's highest court has delivered the final blow to a long-running legal battle over bank fees , upholding a decision that ANZ Bank was entitled to charge late payment fees of up to A$35 ( NZ$37.41 ) .  On Wednesday morning the High Court dismissed with costs an appeal from ANZ Bank customers , who since 2010 have been running a class action against the bank , claiming it unfairly overcharged tens of thousands of people for paying their credit card bills late .  TIM WIMBORNE/REUTERS  The customers claimed ANZ unfairly overcharged tens of thousands of people for paying their credit card bills late .  However , this was overturned last year when the full bench of of potential costs to the bank , including the impact on provisioning for bad debts and regulatory capital .  The customers , represented by Maurice Blackburn , had appealed this ruling , but their appeal was dismissed with costs .  A key deciding factor in the case was whether the bank 's late payment fee of A$35 , later dropped to A$20 , was an " unfair penalty . "  The majority of the Australian High Court agreed with ANZ 's claim that the maximum costs to banks of late payments should consider making provisions for soured loans , for holding regulatory capital , debt collection costs . The interests of the bank were affected by each of these costs , it said .  It also rejected a second appeal that alleged late payment fees amounted to unconscionable conduct , unjust transactions , and unfair contract terms .  The action against ANZ was funded by litigation funder IMF Bentham and had attracted about 43,500 customers . Aside from the impact on banks , the legal principles being debated in the case may have implications for other telecommunications companies .  In New Zealand , lawyer Andrew Hooker has been the driving force behind Fair Play on Fees , a campaign to take a class action against the big four banks over fees it considered unfairly high .  It cited examples including dishonour fees , credit card over-limit fees and credit card late payment fees . The New Zealand proceedings were on hold pending the outcome of the Australian case .  Hooker said he had not yet had time to digest the implications of the Australian decision . The New Zealand campaign would need to get advice on what it meant for its own case , he said .