ECan pilot project to work with farmers separate from industry bodies
http://www.stuff.co.nz/the-press/news/north-canterbury/82408979/ecan-pilot-project-to-work-with-farmers-separate-from-industry-bodies

ECan pilot project to work with farmers separate from industry bodies  The council will make their decision on the plan on August 19 after a week of public meetings .  Environment Canterbury is conducting a pilot project to help more independent farmers complete their environmental plans .  The programme will assess whether one-on-one meetings between farmers and ECan will work for those lacking outside support from the likes of irrigation schemes or industry bodies such as Fonterra .  It is aimed at 100 farmers across Waimakariri and Selwyn districts , 50 in each , and has been running for about two months .  SUPPLIED  Waimakariri zone manager Andrew Arps has been working with Eyreton farmer Darryl Brown to put together his Farm Environment Plan .  " That 's just an initial target . Ultimately there 'll be more than that but it 's just to give us an initial target to focus on and get underway . . . We 've identified people who are going to need some help to get them on a roll , " Waimakariri zone these farmers reside in , land-use consents will be needed for any farming work done on their property from 2017 .  The meetings will take farmers through their Farm Environment Plans ( FEPs ) , setting out what they can do to their properties to reduce any adverse environmental effects , Arps said .  SUPPLIED  Waimakariri zone manager Andrew Arps , right , has been working with Eyreton farmer Darryl Brown to put together his Farm Environment Plan .  " As part of getting that consent they will need the FEP so , if you like , that 's the check that 's in place to ensure the environmental work is actually done . "  Plans could include anything from riparian planting to stock fencing to keep cattle from entering neighbouring waterways .  Eyreton farmer Darryl Brown started making improvements to his 1200-acre horse and dairy farm after joining the project two months ago .  He said the cost associated with implementing farm environment plans was lessened when considering the long-term impact of the changes .  " It 's a bit scary at that you 're making decisions which benefit your farm and the environment .  " We 've already got plans to make our irrigation systems more efficient with increased monitoring . Making the entire farm more efficient means using less resources and having more money in the bottom line . "  He said the process of record gathering and putting together a farm mapping system had given him a greater overview of his entire farming operation .  " Since 1968 the farm has grown from 225 acres to well over 1000 acres so we 're definitely having an impact on the environment . Looking at the farm as a whole and using the mapping system to identify areas where we 're under or over irrigating is really helpful . "  Brown said his perception about ECan had changed since working one-on-one with the pilot programme .  " There has been a bit of a stigma about ECan but I 've seen a real change with this type of one-on-one approach and I 've found it fantastic .  " It 's just more relaxed having a chat environment plan together can benefit farm profits and the environment gives you a reason to get started . "