Seeka purchases Kiwi CrushT and Kiwi CrushiesT product range
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/BU1608/S01030/seeka-purchases-kiwi-crush-and-kiwi-crushies-product-range.htm

te puke , 31 august - seeka kiwifruit industries ( nzx-sek ) , new zealand 's and australia 's largest kiwifruit grower , today announced the purchase of the kiwi crush and kiwi crushies product ranges from auckland based vital food processors ltd ( vital foods ) for an undisclosed sum .  kiwi crush is a range of 100% natural kiwifruit based drinks that have since the early 1990s helped new zealanders support and balance the digestive system . kiwi crush is prepared through a unique and specialised process that locks in and preserves the natural and functional ingredients found in new zealand green and other kiwifruit . kiwi crushies are a range of 100% natural fruit based ice blocks that were launched in 2014 .  seeka ceo michael franks was pleased to announce that the purchase of kiwi crush and kiwi crushies by seeka . seeka has a long association with vital foods , both as a supplier of kiwifruit and as a shareholder . the sale of kiwi crush and kiwi crushies to seeka will allow vital foods to focus more effectively on  initially the products will continue to be manufactured by vital on behalf of seeka . it is seeka 's intention to establish a food technology and processing centre in the bay of plenty focussed on value add from the products that are currently handled by seeka , with this centre to be operational for the next kiwifruit harvest season . our growers and shareholders will benefit from these value-added activities .  shares of apple slid , down 0.9 percent as of 3.08pm in new york , after the european commission ruled that ireland granted the company undue tax benefits of up to 13 billion euros ( us$14.5 billion ) -- " illegal aid " under eu rules that the commission says ireland now must recover from apple . more&gt;&gt;  also :  nzx , the sharemarket operator , is seeking feedback on proposed changes to its corporate governance best practice code including a published code of ethics , rules about share trading and continuous disclosure , and more transparency over board appointments and chief executive pay . more&gt;&gt;  a star system 94 light-years away is in the to the discovery of a radio signal by a group of russian astronomers ... could it be a transmission from a technically proficient society ? at this point , we can only consider what is known so far . more&gt;&gt;  brian roche will step down as chief executive of new zealand post in april 2017 , having led the state-owned postal service 's drive to adjust to shrinking mail volumes with a combination of cost cuts , asset sales , modernisation and expansion of new businesses . more&gt;&gt;