Bestselling Author to Visit New Zealand
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/CU1609/S00014/bestselling-author-to-visit-new-zealand.htm

bestselling author to visit new zealand  bestselling american author justin cronin is set to visit new zealand as part of a nationwide tour to promote the city of mirrors , the conclusion to the epic trilogy that began with the passage .  fans will have the opportunity to hear the superstar author speak about his stellar career during events taking place in auckland , wellington , dunedin and christchurch between september 12 and 15 .  the passage is an unforgettable tale that critics and readers compared to the novels of cormac mccarthy , michael crichton , stephen king , and margaret atwood . published in 2010 , it became a runaway bestseller and enchanted readers around the globe .  it spent three months on the new york times bestseller list , sold in over 40 countries and topped bestseller lists in many of them , including new zealand where it was an instant hit , debuting at number one on the strength of its first week 's sales . an astonishing feat for an author previously unknown here .  it was followed finished the trilogy with the city of mirrors , which released in may this year .  " it was a momentous achievement for its time . the successful connection came on the third attempt at laying the cable , and followed a near disaster when the first cable snapped - almost destroying the ship weymouth in the process , " says ms adams . more&gt;&gt;  also :  founder axl rose and former members , slash and duff mckagan have regrouped for one of the century 's most anticipated tours ... rolling stone said : " this was the real thing , the thing we 'd all been waiting for : the triumphant return of one of the most important bands to cross rock music history . and it happened in our lifetime . " more&gt;&gt;  " simply stunning , with gold-standard production values , " say the judges of the winner of this year 's margaret mahy book of the year award in the prestigious new zealand book awards for children and young adults . anzac heroes is also the winner of the elsie locke award for hamilton zoo 's latest rhino calf has been named samburu and he 's being celebrated with a unique zoo experience ... samburu arrived after his mother kito 's 16-month pregnancy and the calf brings the number of white rhinos at hamilton zoo to six . more&gt;&gt;