Bye-bye Winter and hello Spring
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/SC1609/S00003/bye-bye-winter-and-hello-spring.htm

bye-bye winter and hello spring  september heralds the start of a new season as we bound from winter into spring . metservice meteorologist peter little commented , " it looks like we 're going to have a very typical start to spring this year , with a mixture of fine and wet weather forecast for most places over the coming days , accompanied by swinging temperatures and gusty winds . "  northwesterly winds strengthen today ahead of a frontal system that moves onto the lower south island this evening , then weakens over the north island during friday . while this feature brings a period of rain to western parts of the country , the northwesterly winds ahead of the front are expected to turn up the temperature in eastern areas .  " a watch for heavy rain is in force for fiordland , the ranges of westland and the tararua range , plus for severe northwest gales about wairarapa and inland parts of canterbury . meanwhile , on friday temperatures could reach twenty degrees in eastern parts of the country , such as little .  on saturday , a narrow ridge of high pressure sees fine weather return to most regions , with morning frosts likely about inland parts of the south island . on sunday , a low pressure system and its associated front move onto the country from the tasman sea . this weather system brings further rain , mainly to western areas , with heavy falls likely on the west coast of the south island . in addition , another period of gusty northwesterly winds and mild temperatures are likely in the east .  " if you 're planning outdoor activities around the weather this weekend the best time will likely be saturday afternoon or sunday morning " , added mr little .  shares of apple slid , down 0.9 percent as of 3.08pm in new york , after the european commission ruled that ireland granted the company undue tax benefits of up to 13 billion euros ( us$14.5 billion ) -- " illegal aid " under eu rules that the commission says ireland now must recover from apple . more&gt;&gt;  also :  nzx , the its corporate governance best practice code including a published code of ethics , rules about share trading and continuous disclosure , and more transparency over board appointments and chief executive pay . more&gt;&gt;  a star system 94 light-years away is in the spotlight as a possible candidate for intelligent inhabitants , thanks to the discovery of a radio signal by a group of russian astronomers ... could it be a transmission from a technically proficient society ? at this point , we can only consider what is known so far . more&gt;&gt;  brian roche will step down as chief executive of new zealand post in april 2017 , having led the state-owned postal service 's drive to adjust to shrinking mail volumes with a combination of cost cuts , asset sales , modernisation and expansion of new businesses . more&gt;&gt;