'Deal of the year' winners for 2016
http://community.scoop.co.nz/2016/09/deal-of-the-year-winners-for-2016/

Awarded to Pacific Equity Partners for their investment in Link Group .  Best Management Buyout over $500 million  Awarded to Pacific Equity Partners for their investment in Energy Developments .  In addition to these six category winners , AVCAL also recognised two other award winners in the following categories :  The Michael Hirshorn Award , honouring a private equity or venture capital-backed business whose products or services have been instrumental in making a significant community contribution , which this year was awarded to Guardian Early Learning and Navis Capital . 2  The inaugural Workplace Diversity Award was presented to Brandon Capital for their efforts in creating an inclusive workplace environment and building initiatives and opportunities for all staff , whatever their background , to achieve their full potential .  " The nominations for this year 's awards were very strong , " said AVCAL Chief Executive , Yasser El-Ansary . " Our fund managers do a remarkable job of working closely with management teams to build strong and successful portfolio companies , and it 's important to celebrate that success . awarding the inaugural AVCAL Workplace Diversity Award in our industry . Diversity is an issue that is very much front of mind for the industry , and this award acknowledges the work that fund managers do to promote more diversity within their organisations and at the portfolio company level , " he added .  More information on award recipients is included below .  About the Award Recipients  Hatchtech  Hatchtech Pty Ltd is a specialty pharmaceutical company located in Melbourne , Australia . The Company is developing Xeglyze ? Lotion , a proprietary next generation head lice treatment . Xeglyze ? is a topical lotion containing an inhibitor of metalloproteinases known to impede a number of physiological processes involved in all stages of the louse lifecycle from egg to adult . A substantial body of scientific data has established its mode of action , and preclinical and clinical studies have evaluated the efficacy and safety of Xeglyze ? . The Company was originally founded through programs that originated at the University of Melbourne in Australia . Hatchtech has a comprehensive patent estate for Xeglyze ? Lotion including granted . Hatchtech is securely financed by a consortium of specialist venture capitalists and sophisticated investors .  Appen  Appen is a global leader in speech and search technology services . With expertise in more than 150 languages , Appen partners with leading technology and ecommerce companies as they develop new offerings and expand them to global markets . Our solutions help companies create engaging products with accurate speech interfaces and relevant content ranging from web sites , to maps , images , and merchandise .  Alleasing  Alleasing is a leading independent lessor in the Australia and New Zealand market , delivering creative equipment finance solutions to customers for over 25 years . Alleasing 's team of specialised professionals have the industry knowledge and asset expertise to help our customers make the most cost effective financing decisions , keeping their businesses competitive . Through leasing , Alleasing provides customers with the latest technology , improved cash flow and complete flexibility . 3  Healthe Care  Healthe Care is Australia 's third largest for-profit private hospital operator and one of the largest privately-owned healthcare companies in Australia . Healthe beds and more than 50 operating theatres/catheterisation labs . The hospitals are located in major cities and key regional areas across Australia including Sydney , Melbourne , Brisbane , Perth , Gold Coast and Newcastle . The company provides a comprehensive range of acute , mental health and specialty services . Healthe Care employs over 4,500 staff and has over 2,500 credentialed doctors working within its hospitals . The company is headquartered in Sydney .  Link Group  Link Group is comprised of two businesses : Link Market Services and Australian Administration Services ( AAS ) . Link Market Services is the number two share registry company in Australia maintaining the registers and providing registry related services to approximately 450 Australian listed companies . In addition to maintaining shareholder registers , the company also provides value added services such as administration of employee share schemes , shareholder meetings and corporate actions . Growth comes as a result of enhancing the value added services offered to the company 's existing clients . AAS is one of the leading specialists in superannuation administration . With over 900 employees across six states , in Australia .  Energy Developments  Energy Developments Pty Limited is an international provider of safe , clean , low greenhouse gas emissions energy , remote energy solutions and renewables . EDL currently manages an international portfolio of over 900MW of power generation facilities in Australia , the United States and Europe , utilising a range of fuel sources operating in five main areas : remote energy , natural gas ( NG , CNG &amp; LNG ) and diesel , landfill gas , waste coal mine gas and wind .  Guardian Early Learning  Guardian is currently the third largest operator of private childcare services in Australia . The group currently owns and manages 71 childcare centres across Sydney , Melbourne , Brisbane , Perth and Adelaide , providing education and care for over 10,000 families and their children . Guardian is also developing , designing and constructing 10 new childcare centres which will become operational over the coming 12 months . Guardian comprises two divisions : Guardian Corporate , which owns and operates 12 early learning centres in Sydney and Canberra for and on behalf of corporate clients a number of Australia 's largest corporations ; and Guardian Community , which owns and operates 59 childcare centres located throughout metropolitan areas of Australia 's largest capital cities , including Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane , Perth and Adelaide .  Brandon Capital  One of Australia 's leading life science venture capital firms , Brandon Capital Partners invests in leading life science innovations with the promise of improved treatment outcomes and commercial returns . With unparalleled access to academic and research institutions , Brandon Capital applies seed and venture funding along with industry and operational expertise to advance innovative life science companies from inception to successful exits . The seasoned Brandon Capital team partners with entrepreneurs to build businesses that create value for the innovators , their teams and Brandon Capital 's investors . Brandon Capital currently manages three funds raised since 2008 , totalling more than AU$300 million . Brandon Capital has Australian offices in Melbourne , Sydney , Perth , Adelaide , Brisbane and a US office in Palo Alto , California . 4  About AVCAL  The Australian Private Equity &amp; Venture Capital Association Limited private equity and venture capital industries . AVCAL 's members comprise most of the active private equity and venture capital firms in Australia . These firms provide capital for early stage companies , later stage expansion capital , and capital for management buyouts of established companies .