European human rights group warns on Azerbaijan constitution
http://www.nzherald.co.nz/world/news/article.cfm?c_id=2&amp;objectid=11714362

sub navigation  european human rights group warns on azerbaijan constitution  3:40 am thursday sep 22 , 2016  share :  facebook  twitter  google+  linkedin  not saved  email  print  paris ( ap ) " a european law and human rights commission on wednesday criticized proposed constitutional changes in azerbaijan that would extend the president 's term , a conclusion that drew an angry response from the ex-soviet nation .  the venice commission , a watchdog body of constitutional law experts based in france , released a preliminary report saying that extending the presidential mandate " can not be justified " and that other proposed legal changes would upset the balance of powers .  the commission expressed concern about a measure limiting public gatherings and said a measure giving the president power to dissolve parliament would weaken political dissent .  azerbaijan is to hold a referendum monday on the changes . hundreds of demonstrators gathered in the capital of azerbaijan saturday to protest against them .  some critics characterize the oil-rich caspian sea nation as of the previous president and see the proposed measures as a mechanism for extending his rule .  the venice commission experts are part of the council of europe , a rights authority whose 47 members " including azerbaijan " have signed the european convention on human rights .  the commission also complained that azerbaijan rushed these reforms through without enough parliamentary and public debate , and said it regrets that azerbaijan did n't consult the commission .  shahin aliyev , the head of the legal department in azerbaijan 's presidential administration , shrugged off the venice commission 's criticism as hasty and unfounded .  " we are seeing that hasty conclusion , which has many flaws , as politically driven , " he said at a briefing in the capital baku . " they speak to us in a language of ultimatums . "  the presidential aide voiced surprise that the commission had n't asked azerbaijan for any explanation or clarification before issuing its verdict . he rebuffed the criticism and argued that the proposed constitutional changes are intended to streamline the government structure in order , in office since succeeding his father in 2003 , has firmly allied the shia muslim nation with the west , helping secure its energy and security interests and offset russia 's influence in the strategic caspian region . at the same time , his government has long faced criticism in the west for showing little tolerance for dissent and holding elections that fall below democratic standards .  ap  this story has been automatically published from the associated press wire which uses us spellings