Mickelson promises prepared US team at Ryder Cup
http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&amp;objectid=11718867

mickelson promises prepared us team at ryder cup  chaska , minn . ( ap ) " two days before the ryder cup , phil mickelson went back 12 years to drive home a point that the americans are prepared to play their best golf .  and along the way , he disparaged yet another former captain .  this time , his target was hal sutton .  mickelson was the catalyst for change at the last ryder cup when he publicly questioned tom watson 's heavy-handed style " with watson sitting at the same table " after another american loss at gleneagles . that led to the pga of america creating a task force allowing for player involvement .  " when you look back on what the difference is , when players are put in a position to succeed , more often than not they tend to succeed , " mickelson said . " and when they are put in positions to fail , most of the time they tend to fail . "  in a conversation wednesday on how much a the room and said , " let me give you an example , if i may . "  he went back to 2004 when the americans suffered their worst loss ever in the ryder cup at oakland hills .  nothing illustrated their failure more than when u.s. captain hal sutton put mickelson and tiger woods together for the first time . they lost two matches in one day .  mickelson was lampooned that week for practicing on an adjacent course as he tried to adjust to the golf ball used by woods .  " we ended up not playing well . was that the problem ? i mean , maybe , " mickelson said . " but we were told two days before that we were playing together , and that gave us no time to work together and prepare . "  mickelson said having to learn how to hit a different golf ball forced him to abandon his own preparations to get sharp .  continued below .  related content  " in the history of my career , i have never ball-tested two " it does n't allow me to play my best . what allows me to play my best is to learn the course , sharpen my touch on the greens , sharpen my chipping out of the rough and ball-striking and so forth . instead , i 'm taking four or five hours , and i 'm out trying to learn another ball to allow us to play our best . "  mickelson said he was n't trying to knock sutton . he said he liked how decisive sutton was that week .  " but that 's an example of starting with the captain . that put us in a position to fail . and we failed monumentally , absolutely , " he said . " but to say , ' well , you just need to play better , ' that is so misinformed . because you will play how you prepare . "  sutton was bemused that mickelson would bring that up now .  " my god , somebody 's got to be the fall guy , " he told golfweek magazine . " if . i do n't have anything to say to that . my god . the world saw what happened . they saw it . i did n't have to cover it up . ... i find it amusing that that 's an issue at the 2016 ryder cup . i think phil better get his mind on what he needs to have it on this week instead of on something that happened 10 years ago . ...  " it could n't be their fault , " he said . " it had to be somebody else 's fault . it had to be hal sutton 's fault . had to be . "  u.s. captain davis love iii said mickelson was only trying to set the record straight because " some analysts just keep bringing it up over and over and over again , " though mickelson mentioned oakland hills unprompted in his news conference .  and mickelson failed to mention that he switched equipment from titleist to callaway a week before the matches .  " hal was an incredible captain , " said love , who think phil is looking forward to what 's happened over the last year and we 've learned a lot from all of our past captains on how we need to do this together . "  he said sutton was with the u.s. team on tuesday night and " it was an inspiration to see him . "  mickelson is more optimistic than ever that the americans can end two decades of futility against europe , which has won eight of the last 10 times . mickelson is playing his record 11th straight ryder cup , qualifying for every one of those teams , yet he has been on the winning side only twice .  two years ago , he was visibly angry after the loss at gleneagles about the u.s. getting away from what worked under paul azinger in a rare 2008 victory , and what seems to work every year at the presidents cup against an international team that is not nearly as formidable as europe .  love was captain at medinah in 2012 when the americans had a 10-6 lead going into singles , only rallied to win . mickelson and woods were part of that task force that agreed to bring love back .  " this is a year where we feel as though captain love has been putting us in a position to succeed , " mickelson said . " he 's taken input from all parties . he 's making decisions that have allowed us to prepare our best and play our best , and i believe that we will play our best . "  ap  this story has been automatically published from the associated press wire which uses us spellings