Wilaci argues A$33.6mn in late payment fees not a penalty
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/BU1610/S00089/wilaci-argues-a336mn-in-late-payment-fees-not-a-penalty.htm

wilaci argues a$33.6mn in late payment fees not a penalty  wilaci argues a$33.6mn in late payment fees were n't a penalty in court of appeal  by sophie boot  oct. 4 ( businessdesk ) - lawyers for australian businessman john grill 's wilaci investment unit have argued that a$33.6 million in late payment fees it wants from pyne gould corp subsidiary torchlight fund no 1 lp were n't penalty fees in the court of appeal this morning .  last october , justice matthew muir in the high court ruled the torchlight unit did n't have to pay the fee on a a$37 million loan from wilaci , which " so significantly exceeds the loss likely to be caused by the breach that it qualifies as extravagant and therefore unenforceable , " saying the a$2.17 million per month fee " was undoubtedly extravagant in relation to any such loss . "  wilaci loaned the funds to torchlight on aug. 22 , 2012 , to help the pyne gould entity through what managing director george kerr described as " a very tight liquidity situation " for repayment from its debtors , including torchlight 's australian real estate investment , rcl group . a high-profile dispute with the financial markets authority made it more difficult for kerr to recapitalise torchlight .  the loan was due to be repaid by oct. 26 , a deadline torchlight missed , although wilaci did n't immediately call on the loan , rather it managed the repayment through seven tranches between october 2013 and may 2014 .  justice stephen kos , president of the appeal court , said he had summarised wilaci 's appeal case in five points . wilaci has relied on the australian federal court 's 2015 decision in paciocco v anz banking group , where it was found that late fees charged by the bank on credit card payments were n't penalties and therefore were enforceable , in its arguments in the high court and the appeal court today .  " the first is that in paciocco , to be a penalty , the sole purpose of the provision must be functional , " justice kos said . " the test is not simply whether the . third , the relevant interests of the innocent party go beyond simply breach damages otherwise payable . that may be particularly in the case where the parties are substantial , sophisticated commercial entities . the trend seems to be to constrain the doctrine rather than to expand it , and it is easier to justify the doctrine in a consumer context rather than a commercial one . "  wilaci is also arguing that to be a penalty , the fee charged " would need to be out of all proportion to the innocent party 's legitimate commercial interests , " justice kos said , which the appellant 's sydney-based lawyer , david jackson qc , agree with .  " now we 're talking about $37 million being at risk , and we 're gauging the reasonableness of this fee against that context . is n't this your essential problem ? we 're not talking about damages on the assumption that $37 million has been repaid , we 're talking about $37 million being at risk , " justice miller said .  stewart said that did n't affect justice miller said it was important to the question of whether the payment was " extravagant or unconscionable . "  justice kos questioned why torchlight 's kerr had not taken a loan elsewhere when the fund could n't pay back the money within the 60 day loan period .  " sixty-one days into the transaction , he could have taken this to another banker and got a presumably more expensive funding option , " kos said . " instead he has essentially gained the prospect of being able to set aside the continued financing effect on the basis it 's a penalty . he gets the money on that basis - 1.5 percent above market - that 's a very cheap rate in the circumstances . "  stephen hunter , the other lawyer for the respondent , said the capital was n't necessarily at risk despite the fund not meeting the payment obligations as torchlight had assets but not cash .  " when we 're talking about a fee for late repayment , you have the damages recoverable in law , which in this case is either costs wilaci itself was incurring from credit suisse , which was $1.8 million - measure that against the penalty , which is $31 million , " hunter said .  the wellington-based businessdesk team led by former bloomberg asian top editor jonathan underhill and qantas award-winning journalist and commentator pattrick smellie provides a daily news feed for a serious business audience .  contact businessdesk  the overseas investment office ( oio ) has issued a formal warning to ceol &amp; muir and its owners , argentinian brothers rafael and federico grozovsky , for failing to provide complete and accurate information when they applied to buy onetai station in 2013 . more&gt;&gt;  also :  bmw is turning middle earth electric after today announcing a substantial contribution to the charging network charge net nz . this landmark partnership will enable kiwis to drive their electric vehicles ( evs ) right across new zealand through the installation of a fast charging highway stretching from kaitaia to invercargill . more&gt;&gt;  a massey university marketing lecturer has received the 2016 ig nobel prize for economics for a research project that asked university rocks . more&gt;&gt;