Smirking John Key couldn't help himself! Colin Craig 'might have a ...
https://www.tvnz.co.nz/one-news/new-zealand/smirking-john-key-couldnt-help-himself-colin-craig-might-have-few-more-bills-pay-first

Smirking John Key could n't help himself ! Colin Craig ' might have a few more bills to pay first '  share  Source :  John Key believes it would be unlikely for the National Party to make any deal with Colin Craig or the Conservative Party for a seat in Parliament following the defamation case against Mr Craig .  ' He might have a few more bills he has to pay ' - John Key wo n't be making any deals with Colin Craig  00:16  It 's highly unlikely John Key and the National party will make a deal with the Conservative Party or Colin Craig for a seat in Parliament . Source : 1 NEWS  " He might have a few more bills to pay first , " said Mr Key .  Mr Craig was found guilty of defamation last week and ordered to pay Jordan Williams $1.27m , and just this week it was revealed the Human Rights Tribunal ordered Mr Craig to pay Rachel MacGregor $128,780 earlier this year for breaching a confidential agreement between the ' You ca n't put a dollar amount on your life playing out in a humiliating way '  00:15  Ms MacGregor 's lawyer says only her client can say whether she is happy with the sum awarded by the Human Rights Tribunal . Source : 1 NEWS  Mr Key believes it will be unlikely for Mr Craig to get back into politics because the Conservative Party does not want him .  " It 's for him to decide whether he wants to throw his hat in the ring , but he 'd probably have to find a political party that would want him in the first instance , " he said .  The Prime Minister believes Mr Craig 's reputation following the defamation trial against him has also damaged the Conservative Party 's reputation .  " He was a really big part of the party , he was the face of the party , one of the few names that people knew and he funded a lot of the party , so you have to believe it 's done a fair bit of damage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @