How 'street style' lost its meaning and its power
http://www.stuff.co.nz/life-style/fashion/84929590/how-street-style-lost-its-meaning-and-its-power

how ' street style ' lost its meaning and its power  robin givhan  last updated 16:49 , october 4 2016  benoit tessier  vetements has brought subversive style to the catwalk .  there is no such thing as street style . not anymore .  oh sure , photographers still surge around the entrances to fashion shows here in an attempt to capture style in its so-called natural habitat . the women ( it is mostly women ) traipse to and fro posing for the photo pack , sometimes feigning nonchalance . but very little of what is presented as " street style " is actually of-the-street , born and bred .  these looks have not been cobbled together organically . much of what we 're seeing the fashion crowd wear on the street is simply well-placed advertising for brands - whether the clothing itself or the blogger wearing it . it is wholly domesticated .  today , what we used to think of as street style - athletic , down-market , serendipitous , multicultural - is reflected in the looks maison margiela . it is in off-white and koche - up-and-coming , highly praised new labels .  most notably , it is in balenciaga . designer demna gvasalia has been instrumental in erasing the lines between what had always been considered street style and the rarefied point-of-view of the atelier .  as part of the vetements team , he ushered in an era of ungainly , oversized silhouettes and helped to turn such mundane commodities as a logo t-shirt for express-mail giant dhl into a covetable fashion item .  in 2015 , gvasalia came to balenciaga as creative director and brought his subversive tendencies with him - as well as a deep respect for the craftsmanship of one of the most high-minded houses in fashion history . for spring , the jackets are oversized with such broad and structured shoulders that they reach beyond the realm of hyperbole and into distortion . there are vests that resemble gussied-up flotation devices . and bold floral prints exquisitely teeter on the edge of garish .  the elements that once defined street style are now high fashion 's greatest source galliano 's margiela in particular , they have been incorporated in dazzling ways . but sometimes the embrace of street chic comes across as a flourish tacked on to spice a bourgeois brand with a bit of danger , to make a woman with a coddled existence feel a bit more in touch . it is an attempt to buy cool .  laudably , junya watanabe took the hard-edge look of punk rockers and berlin 's street-artist scene and combined it with the dazzling geometric construction that has long been part of his repertoire . it was a bravura presentation , mixing souvenir t-shirts with sharply tailored coats , leather shorts and tops that called to mind giant sea urchins .  takahashi also used music as a source of inspiration for his undercover collection , although he chose jazz . his collection paired loose-fitting trousers , wide-leg jeans and embellished jackets in a collage of textures worn with sneakers or birkenstock-style sandals .  a photo posted by undercover ( @undercoverlab ) on sep 30 , 2016 at 2:15pm pdt  such feelings recall the conversation around the earliest premium for their calvins , and designers justified the prices with a vast assortment of fits and washes .  street style is not just a pair of jeans . it was an entire sensibility - a rejoinder to the formalised edicts of design houses .  vetements 's dhl t-shirt was read as a searing commentary on what the culture values and why . but then its droll aesthetics became coveted fashion , gvasalia landed at balenciaga , and vetements showed alongside haute couture - the most highfalutin form of fashion there is . what had ostensibly been subversive was absorbed into the ivory tower .  a photo posted by vetements ( @vetementsofficial ) on sep 2 , 2016 at 9:11am pdt  virgil abloh , whose off-white label made a splash in menswear with graffiti-marked army jackets and pants , showed his womenswear line before an audience including kanye west , frank ocean and various kardashians . as one might expect , the collection included edgy sweatshirts and cool-girl trousers .  but abloh also showed the sort of frilly , ruffled dresses that one might find in have to do with the " street style " conversation he so ably led ? fashion is mutating . so pair the debutante skirt with a hoodie and call yourself modern .  and what do you call a brand like koche , with hoodies and t-shirts designed by christelle kocher , who is also the artistic director of lemarie , chanel 's haute couture feather house ? kocher roots her brand in the " real " paris , presenting an earlier collection in a grubby passageway frequented by drug addicts . this season , she chose a chaotic mall where shoppers disgorged from escalators into the middle of her show .  look closely and you 'll see that her clothes are beautifully made , with fine fabrics and luxury embellishments . but from a few paces away , they look perfectly at home amid the food courts and sale bins .  this shift in fashion offers cause for optimism . if everyone is wearing sweatshirts , maybe the tribal walls will tumble . but in the meantime , it feels like fashion is being degraded into little more always been connected to status , but it was also about the unique , wondrous nature of the clothes . it was : i can afford this really extraordinary dior . now , you can just show off your fancy dior underpants .  somewhere out there , far from the runways , remain some unco-opted styles . looks that have not yet been absorbed by the mass-market garment business or the fashion elite . the looks are personal - maybe even thoughtful or provocative . call it subversive . call it idiosyncratic . call it serendipitous .  but everything that has been on the runways for spring 2017 - and instagrammed from the circus that accompanies it - is just plain fashion .