As it happened: Dominant All Blacks blow sloppy South Africa off the ...
https://www.tvnz.co.nz/one-news/sport/rugby/happened-dominant-all-blacks-blow-sloppy-south-africa-off-park

As it happened : Dominant All Blacks blow sloppy South Africa off the park  share  Source :  The All Blacks have put on a spectacular second half performance to annihilate a poor South African outfit 57-15 in Durban this morning .  Classy All Blacks unleash ridiculous razzle dazzle play against worn out Springboks  00:33  TJ Perenara scored his second try of the match in Durban after some brilliant touches from his teammates . Source : SKY  80 mins : All Blacks 57 Springboks 15  TRY ! Liam Squire goes over for his first try on the buzzer after another brilliant offload from his teammate Ben Smith .  78 mins : All Blacks 50 Springboks 15  Unstoppable All Blacks pull out all the tricks with fantastic final hooter play against Springboks  00:23  With only 14 men on the park , NZ refused to kick the ball out to allow Liam Squire to cross for his first ABs try . Source : SKY  TRY ! Ben Smith crosses over the white line after a great surging who could have possibly scored himself , but opted to offload the ball . Lima Sopoaga adds the extras .  Unselfish Beauden Barrett gives up chance to set record to gift Ben Smith a meat pie  00:28  Barrett had the opportunity to be the first All Black to score a hat-trick against the Springboks in South Africa , but instead gave it to his number 15 . Source : SKY  74 mins : All Blacks 43 Springboks 15  TRY ! Codie Taylor has scored after a dominant line-out maul , with the Springboks struggling to keep up with the tempo the All Blacks are playing at . Lima Sopoaga is online with the conversion .  71 mins : All Blacks 36 Springboks 15  61 mins : All Blacks 29 Springboks 15  TRY ! TJ Perenara picks up his second try of the match with the ABs pulling out all the tricks showing off their speed , power and ability to offload in the tackle .  The kick is good from Beauden Barrett .  59 mins : All Blacks 22 Springboks 15 just seven points after Retallick was penalised for not rolling away in the tackle .  54 mins : All Blacks 22 Springboks 12  TRY ! Anton Lienert-Brown comes up with the try assist with a charge and kick with Beauden Barrett putting the foot down to score the ABs ' fourth try of the match .  The Springboks gifted NZ a simple try shovelling the ball sideways before Pat Lambie made a poor decision to kick the ball .  Beauden Barrett has been horrible with his kicks at goal missing a chance to convert his own try .  49 mins : All Blacks 17 Springboks 12  THREE ! Morne Steyn 's boot keeps the home side within touching distance of the ABs ' lead .  44 mins : All Blacks 17 Springboks 9  TRY ! Israel Dagg is over for his second try of the match . Relentless attack and patience from the All Blacks pays off with Beauden Barrett throwing a ridiculous offload for Dagg to score .  Barrett again misses another shot at goal from out wide .  40 are back underway with Beauden Barrett kicking off to the Springboks .  HALFTIME - All Blacks 12 Springboks 9  All Blacks player Matt Todd during the 2016 Rugby Championship Test match All Blacks v South Africa at AMI Stadium , Christchurch .  Source : Photosport  40 mins : All Blacks 12 Springboks 9  NO TRY ! Brodie Retallick has been denied a try after Kieran Read and Sam Whitlock were ruled infringing in the maul in the lead-up to the try .  A bit of justice for the home side after a controversial ruling by the TMO to award Perenara 's try .  37 mins : All Blacks 12 Springboks 9  MISS ! Morne Steyn misses a poor attempted drop goal from 35+ metres .  32 mins : All Blacks 12 Springboks 9  TRY ! TJ Perenara scores after making a sneaky darting run from the base of the ruck . And the All Blacks have manage to take the lead for the first time of the match .  Beauden Barrett gets his first shot at goal over the goal 9  PRESSURE ! Another chance go begging for the All Blacks again guilty of forcing one too many passes . Both teams are sucking in the big ones .  The pace of the game is insane - do n't know if both side 's can keep it up for the full 80 minutes .  TRY ! Israel Dagg dots down over the right edge after an awesome team try which began deep inside their own 22m .  Again it is Anton Liernet-Brown that sparked the ABs into life with a fantastic run and offload . The NZ forwards built some quality phases before they decided to spread the ball wide .  Jerome Kaino showed great skills to get the ball away for Dagg to score . Beauden Barrett narrowly misses the conversion from out wide .  19 mins : All Blacks 0 Springboks 6  THREE ! Morne Steyn is online with his second penalty kick at goal .  17 mins : All Blacks 0 Springboks 3  MISTAKE ! South Africa are on fire - forcing the ABs backwards and pushing the visitors within Morne Steyn 's kicking range inside the All Blacks ' 22 to extend their lead .  12 mins : All Blacks 0 Springboks 3  DEFENCE ! The All Blacks are looking dangerous with Anton Liernet-Brown making some excellent yards busting through the first line of defence . A long passage of play but the home team are fronting up on defence dragging Israel Dagg into touch just outside their own 22m line .  7 mins : All Blacks 0 Springboks 3  MISS ! Beauden Barrett misses his first penalty shot at goal from 40m out , after the home side were penalised for an infringement at the breakdown .  4 mins : All Blacks 0 Springboks 3  THREE ! Morne Steyn makes no mistakes with the boot landing a big 49m penalty kick , after Matt Todd was penalised for having his hands in the ruck .  KICK-OFF ! All Blacks 0 Springboks 0  South Africa 's star in last week 's match against the Wallabies gets things underway Morne Steyn kicking off to the ABs .  PRE MATCH  The least . Off field incidents have distracted from the side 's bid to wrap up their 17th consecutive Test victory , equalling their own record .  Steve Hansen has named his strongest possible side for what many believe to be the toughest game in world rugby , facing South Africa in Durban .  Anton Lienert-Brown has been given the vote of confidence from his coach after his man of the match performance in Argentina , while Matt Todd has been named to start in a Test match for the very first time .  Waisake Naholo returns to the side , with Julian Savea earning a rest .  Anton Lienert-Brown celebrates with the All Blacks team after TJ Perenara scores on the halftime buzzer against Argentina .  Source : Photosport  South Africa had a return to form last week , defeating Australia 18-10 to end their streak of four defeats in a row .  The Springboks record against the All Blacks in Durban heavily favours the home team , having won five out of eight Test 's between the two at the venue .  in 2009 resulted in a 31-19 win for South Africa , with Morne Steyn scoring all 31 points . No surprises then that he 's been named to start in this fixture seven years later .  Springboks skipper Adriaan Strauss will also be playing against the All Blacks for the last time in a Test match .