Video live updates: All Blacks vs South Africa
http://www.newshub.co.nz/sport/video-live-updates-all-blacks-vs-south-africa-2016100903

71 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - The Boks make a half break but the offload is spilled , Squire pounces and links with Barrett who scorches into acres of clear space to score . ( NZ 36-15 )  70 mins - The subs have well and truly rolled now ....  65 mins - NZ shifting through the phases again - Perenara breaks but his pass to Savea just goes to ground . Boks scrum on their own 22m .  60 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - Barrett sniffs a half gap and accelerates , lovely skip ball to Read who links with Dagg , inside to Coles , and Perenara is there to collect the final ball . Gorgeous rugby . Barrett converts ! The floodgates are creaking . ( NZ 29-15 )  58 mins - The Boks grab a penalty as they look to attack . Steyn ca n't turn down a gift three points , but the crowd do n't really approve of the decision . ( NZ 22-15 )  55 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - A rare panicked when they saw some clear spaces in front of them , hurrying a kick which Leinert-Brown charges down , toes through , and Barrett is on the spot to score . Barrett slides another across the face with his conversion . ( NZ 22-12 )  54 mins - Retallick with a deft offload 5m out and Crotty drives the legs , just a metre short of the line . Messy at the ruck and Boks hack it away but NZ grab another penalty for an intentional knockdown .  51 mins - Barrett soars to take his own bomb spectacularly . Chips for territory and Steyn returns fire , NZ line-out 30m from the SA line .  49 mins - Accidental offside against NZ , and Steyn wants another shot at goal . Might be time to change up the tactic , you are n't beating this NZ side in threes . On target again , fourth penalty for Steyn . ( NZ 17-12 )  47 mins - Mistake from the restart gives NZ a scrum in the center of the park . Barrett chips for his Lambie bangs it away .  44 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - Again , just too much pressure as 20 phases later Israel Dagg grabs his second try of the game . Great start to the second 40 for the men in black . Barrett ca n't convert . ( NZ 17-9 )  42 mins - SA right under the pump immediately as NZ continue to recycle .... Boks defending stoutly .  41 mins - NZ at halfway , ball spread early and it 's Coles in his favourite wing spot as the ABs rumble inside the SA 22m ...  Second half is underway ...  HALFTIME - The All Blacks have played all the rugby , but the Boks defense has held up when it 's needed to while Morne Steyn ticks the scoreboard over . Join us back here shortly for the second half .  40 mins - Another well executed rolling maul and Retallick crashes over the line . Referee wants another look and the ruling looks like it will go against NZ , Read and Whitelock were ahead of the ball carrier 39 mins - ABs roll the maul beautifully and they 're a metre short , Naholo goes for the line and is just pulled down . NZ penalty and they 'll set another line-out .  38 mins - Naholo busts into space now , eats up 30m before finding Coles in support . Leinert-Brown chips through and forces a line-out just 5m out .....  36 mins - Barrett 's bomb floats out on the full , Boks will have a line-out 30m out . They need to start stringing some phases together and putting some pressure on the NZ defense . And Steyn takes a drop-goal ... wow . It 's well short .  35 mins - SA with some attacking ball now ... and Lambie chips one over the top and into touch . Bizarre stuff from the Boks . NZ win the penalty from the line-out .  32 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - NZ roll the maul from the line-out , Leinert-Brown on the burst and he 's pulled down just short . Perenara looks to go quickly and may have scored here . 's maintained control here . Yes he has , says the referee ! ABs are perhaps a little lucky to get that call . Barrett converts from next to the posts and the visitors take the lead for the first time . ( NZ 12-9 )  30 mins - Boks show some rare attacking verve , but Habana 's kick is into touch on the full . NZ back on the offensive and win a quick penalty . Line-out at the SA 22m now .  28 mins - Retallick with the burst , beats two and lays it back . Naholo with a strong carry but the movement breaks down and SA are able to clear . Crotty knocks on as he retreats to collect the ball , Boks scrum at halfway .  25 mins - Penalty SA , NZ players offside at the ruck . Steyn will have another crack from distance here .... right over the black dot again . His boot is keeping the hosts in this . ( SA 9-5 )  22 mins - TRY ALL BLACKS - The pressure had to tell of attack and eventually Israel Dagg is able to stroll over untouched . Barrett hits the post from handy range . ( SA 6-5 )  20 mins - NZ under the pump inside their 22m again and it 's Leinert-Brown with the break , links with Naholo who takes play deep inside the Boks half . NZ spread it quickly , SA just holding on here ...  19 mins - Another NZ mistake form the restart as they look to force the pass perhaps a bit too much . SA scrum at the half .  17 mins - Some brash play in their own red-zone by the ABs and the ball is loose , Read recovers but he 's swarmed upon at the ruck and the penalty goes SA 's way . Steyn lines up a shot from 22m out on the angle .... slots it . Boks lead , well against the run of play it has to be said . ( SA 6-0 )  15 mins - SA defensive scrum under all sorts of pressure , Steyn just manages to get it into touch . the base of the ruck .  14 mins - Boks clear but do n't find touch and Naholo is under it , beats one and takes off down the left touchline , finds Smith who 's pass inside is knocked on . NZ continue to threaten .  12 mins - 10 phases deep now and they 're finding some holes , Leinert-Brown another incision to put Dagg in space . The hosts just hold on , ball into touch .  11 mins - NZ penalty from the line-out , Barrett takes play back inside the Boks ' half . Leinert-Brown makes a burst , strong run to take it to the 22m .  8 mins - NZ build nicely from the restart , Barrett to Read into a huge gap but his flick pass is intercepted and the Boks hack it downfield . Barrett gets back and recovers well , Naholo right on the spot in support and they scramble it into touch .  6 mins - ABs get some movement now , Dagg cuts inside two defenders to set up a ruck 30m out . calls for the tee , 40m out on a slight angle ..... and he 's pushed it wide .  2016 : New Zealand won 41-13 in Christchurch 2015 : New Zealand won 20-18 in London ( RWC semi-final ) 2015 : New Zealand won 27-20 in Johannesburg 2014 : South Africa won 27-25 in Johannesburg 2014 : New Zealand won 14-10 in Wellington 2013 : New Zealand won 38-27 in Johannesburg 2013 : New Zealand won 29-15 in Auckland 2012 : New Zealand won 32-16 in Johannesburg 2012 : New Zealand won 21-11 in Dunedin 2011 : South Africa won 18-5 in Port Elizabeth 2011 : New Zealand won 40-7 in Wellington  **37;669;TOOLONG  Pre-match banter :  All Blacks ' focus restored , says Read  New Zealand captain Kieran Read says his side will go into their final Rugby Championship clash against South Africa in Durban with clear heads following a tough week that saw halfback Aaron Smith sent home .  Smith received a one-match suspension from New Zealand Rugby after admitting he had a liaison with a female in a disabled toilet while on team referring directly to the incident at his captain 's news conference in Durban on Friday , but said the team were feeling no ill-effects of their hectic travel schedule and the loss of their regular number nine .  " It 's nice to get to Friday and just know we have to put the finishing touches to the preparation and go into tomorrow with clear heads , " Read said .  " We just need to turn up and play our brand of rugby . Right now we are in a good space . "  The All Blacks are chasing a 17th Test win in a row , which would equal a record mark for top-tier rugby nation they have achieved twice before .  " History suggests it 's pretty tough to move past this level where we are at now , " Read said .  " We want to go and get 17 , but you ca n't be thinking about records once you are on the field . "  Read disagrees with former All Black World Cup-winning coach Graham Henry that the Boks for the side in which they have lost three times in the Rugby Championship .  " Graham Henry likes making remarks about opposition teams to be honest , " Read said with a chuckle .  " We truly respect them . The history of our two teams , we know how much it means to put on the Springbok jumper , which is the same as the All Black jumper for us . "  The number eight said the All Blacks were expecting a fast match and are ready for a physical forward challenge .