Canterbury pile on 417 runs on first day as Plunket Shield season ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/cricket/85640400/canterbury-pile-on-417-runs-on-first-day-as-plunket-shield-season-gets-under-way

canterbury pile on 417 runs on first day as plunket shield season gets under way  andrew voerman and wayne martin  last updated 18:54 , october 22 2016  photosport  todd astle was not out on 167 at the end of the first day of the match between canterbury and northern districts .  it was bats that did most of the talking on the opening day of the domestic cricket season , as canterbury and otago blazed their way to dominant positions in the first round of the plunket shield .  having been 60 for four shortly before lunch , and 150 for five midway through the second session , canterbury would have been over the moon to finish the day on 417 for eight , especially seeing as they had been sent in by northern districts at hagley oval in christchurch .  they mostly have todd astle to thank for that remarkable turnaround , with the all-rounder not out on 167 off just 161 balls , an innings that remarkably has contained 22 fours so far , but no sixes , 100th first-class game .  he found valuable lower order support from spinner tim johnston , who hit 66 off 62 balls , kyle jamieson , who made 40 , and debutant henry shipley , who is also not out on 24 .  northern 's frontline seamers , scott kuggeleijn , jimmy baker and zak gibson had all been impressive in the morning session , as they appeared to have got their side off to a perfect start , but came in for some stick as the day progressed . kuggeleijn finished the day with the best figures , taking three for 109 off 25 overs .  photosport  hamish rutherford made 143 as otago compiled 302 on the opening day of their match against central districts .  meanwhile , centuries by hamish rutherford and brad wilson have left otago in complete control after day one of their match against central districts in nelson .  the two openers had the central bowling attack at their mercy for most of day at saxton oval after otago had elected to bat in fine , sunny conditions . and they three .  former black caps batsman rutherford took the opportunity to score his ninth first-class century , hitting 143 runs off just 176 balls , the left-hander peppering the boundary with 21 fours and four sixes .  wilson was in less of a hurry , taking 254 balls to contribute 111 runs for his 12th first-class century , hitting 12 fours and two sixes .  the pair added a staggering 227 runs together in their opening stand and were n't separated until the third over after the tea break when left-arm spinner ajaz patel finally made the breakthrough .  ryan duffy added 31 runs , leaving neil broom ( 4 not out ) and josh finnie ( 6 not out ) to see otago through to stumps .  the only game where bowlers had the upper hand was at bay oval in mount maunganui , where wellington won the toss and sent auckland in to bat .  the defending champions put on 99 for their first wicket - michael guptill-bunce making 50 , and test opening prospect jeet raval 47 - and 70 for their just 100 runs . veteran seamer brent arnel was the pick of the bowlers , taking four for 57 , while hamish bennett chipped in with three for 64 and jeetan patel claimed three for 79 during an innings that included a break for rain .  by stumps , wellington had lost the wickets of openers michael papps and luke woodcock , and were 43 for two , with stephen murdoch and hamish marshall at the crease.