UK levy may close door on jobs for Kiwis
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/national/370621/uk-levy-may-close-door-jobs-kiwis

uk levy may close door on jobs for kiwis  kiwis hoping to get a job in the uk could be dealt a further blow after a proposal to introduce a new ? 1000 ( $2205 ) a year immigration skills levy looks set to be implemented .  if introduced , the new law would require firms employing skilled non-european union migrants to pay ? 1000 for each worker recruited outside of europe per year .  the recommendation was part of a package from the uk government 's migration advisory committee , under a new crackdown ordered by uk home secretary theresa may , reported the guardian .  it 's the latest policy squeeze on migrants to the uk that could affect new zealanders , coming just days after the announcement of a strict new law which will see all migrants from outside the eu earning less than ? 35,000 a year prevented from staying in the uk for longer than five years .  the skilled migrant levy is estimated to cut the flow of skilled non-eu workers by 20 per cent a and could hit the recruitment of overseas nurses and teachers the hardest .  the british government 's labour market experts claim most skilled migrants from outside europe bring little in the way of new skills and are paid more than their british counterparts , the newspaper reported . however , those in some jobs , such as doctors , nurses and teachers , typically earn less than their uk peers , by as must as ? 6000 per year .  the proposal came with a recommendation to include a rise in the minimum salary threshold for jobs filled from overseas , from ? 20,800 to ? 30,000 .  meanwhile , the government will continue to lobby uk ministers over the impact of the strict ? 35,000 earnings policy and the impact it will have on kiwi workers when it comes into effect in april .  an online petition against the policy change is garnering big support among britons with about 77,000 people signing within six days .  a number of people living in the uk have emailed the herald , worried they may now be kicked meet the threshold . some have been living there since the 80s .  immigration officials were in conversation with their british counterparts on working arrangements for expat kiwis , a spokesman for immigration minister murray mccully said .  however , the spokesman said he did not think many new zealanders would be affected as most were working in the uk on two-year youth mobility scheme or on ancestry visas .  others held skilled work permits and were likely to be earning above the income threshold .  there are about 200,000 new zealanders living in the uk . since 2010 kiwis need a job and a sponsoring employer to gain a skilled migrant visa .