Cleveland radio host has sexist takes on Bills' hire of Kathryn Smith
http://www.sportal.co.nz/article/news/kathryn-smith-bills-female-coach-cleveland-radio-segment-kevin-kiley-ken-carman-923-the-fan/1miwfioo2ufyu1ki1hry1c75qc

" Kaitlyn or Kathryn or whatever her name is , " begins Kevin Kiley of the Kiley &amp; Carman show on 92.3 The Fan , " she 's been hired as a , this is absurd by the way , she 's been hired as a quality control coach . "  Just a few seconds into the program and we 're off to a terrible start . It does n't get much better , by the way . The show continues by saying she 's a woman and how that makes her incapable of understanding the game of football , or something .  " No place for a woman in professional sports , in football , coaching men . Men will not take to it , " Kiley says . " If you have 10 men on special teams , eight of them will be mumbling under their breath , it 's counter-productive . You 're setting her up to fail . "  For what it 's worth , if a team has 10 men on special teams then they 'd be a man players on the field . But let 's continue to talk about how Smith , or anyone with a uterus , ca n't understand football .  " This is the old conversation we had about women vote for the Hall of Fame in football . It 's absurd , " he says . " I mean do you really want your determination , whether you make the Hall of Fame in football , do you want a woman to have a vote on that , who 's never played the game and does n't understand the intensity of the game ? "  The conversation continues on for several more minutes , and if you feel inclined you can listen to the whole thing below .  To be fair , the other host Ken Carman was n't on board with what his partner was saying . He pointed out how there are men with the same credentials as Smith and how they 're just as qualified . Kiley , however , stayed firm in his belief that women do n't belong in football .  Kiley played linebacker at the NFL , though that apparently amounted to a preseason stint with the Jets in 1974 .  Earlier this season when Jen Welter was an intern coach for the Cardinals , the players had no problems with her . In fact , they quite enjoyed her presence .  " She 's a great lady , " said linebacker Kevin Minter at the time . " She 's helped a lot and she 's a stickler about fundamentals and what not . She knows a lot about making you better as a person , too , with the notes she left on your locker , the words of encouragement from what she sees on film . She was like a real good person to feed off of . "  At some point , women coaching in the NFL wo n't be headline news every time it occurs , and that 's when there will be true progress . For now though , we still have to deal with guys like Kiley who hold an old-fashioned mindset.