One in five graduates in England unable to understand aspirin ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/76381502/one-in-five-graduates-in-england-unable-to-understand-aspirin-packet--study

one in five graduates in england unable to understand aspirin packet - study  javier espinoza  last updated 13:07 , january 29 2016  rob homer/fairfax media  the study concludes that 7 per cent of 20 to 34-year-old graduates in england have numeracy skills below level two , while 3.4 per cent have literacy skills of a similar standard .  one in five students in england leaves university with only a rudimentary command of basic skills such as reading instructions on an aspirin bottle or estimating how much petrol is left in their tank , a study suggests .  the report warns that students with such low abilities should not be allowed to go to university and alternative routes to educating them should be found .  the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) , which compiled the report , said that permitting such students to graduate " undermines the currency " of the qualification .  the study , which looks at literacy and numeracy skills in england , concludes that 7 per cent of 20 to 34-year-old graduates one is ranked lowest ) , while 3.4 per cent have literacy skills of a similar standard .  the report warns : " those with low basic skills should not normally enter three-year undergraduate programmes , which are both costly and unsuited to the educational needs of those involved , while graduates with poor basic skills undermine the currency of an english university degree . "  these would-be students should be encouraged to take alternative professional courses that will help to boost their levels of literacy and numeracy , while more needs to be done in universities to help students with intermediate levels in the basics .  it also suggests that preventing universities from graduating students that have low basic skills could help to raise achievement .  the report , based on an international survey conducted in 2012 , goes on to warn that while england has more young people graduating from university than many other countries , many are not well-prepared for degree study as the basic skills of those teenagers who may go into higher education is much weaker than elsewhere .  overall , times as many as in countries such as finland , japan , korea and the netherlands .  in 2012 , in england , 70 per cent of youngsters in this age group were in education or training that would lead to a formal qualification , compared with almost all young people in many other nations , the survey says .