Friends reunion panned by fans and critics as 'severely ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/entertainment/tv-radio/77181244/friends-reunion-panned-by-fans-and-critics-as-severely-disappointing-car-crash

All but Matthew Perry share a stage for the first time in years , but the focus is on director James Burrows rather than the cast .  It was one of the most hyped television events of 2016 , but the Friends reunion has been panned for being a boring , disappointing " car crash " .  Some on Twitter described the reunion as " awkward and too forced " , while television critics called it " a total bust " .  When news of the reunion dropped in January , fans of the 90s NBC sitcom began salivating at the thought of a new episode , 12 years after the series ended .  None  The way they were ... The cast of Friends , from left , David Schwimmer , Jennifer Aniston , Courteney Cox , Matthew Perry , Lisa Kudrow and Matt LeBlanc .  But it soon emerged the reunion was instead a tribute to director James Burrows , with the casts of his iconic sitcoms , Frasier , Cheers and Friends reuniting to celebrate the 75-year-old 's legendary clause which prohibited them from sleeping with one another , but Lisa Kudrow was the only person to flat-out deny it following a cliffhanger commercial break .  British paper The Guardian 's Brian Moylan called it " one of the most intensely boring two hours I have ever endured " , while The Daily Beast 's Matt Wilstein called it " a total bust " .  " Instead of catching up with the characters of Friends , Sunday night 's special simply highlighted the mostly awkward interactions of five actors who have seen their careers go in markedly different directions in the 12 years since the show ended its 10-season run . "  UK newspaper , The Telegraph 's Rob Crilly also said he was " inclined to agree with some of the criticism in my Twitter timeline " .  " It was billed as a Friends reunion . But was actually a televised luvvy love-in for a director , who may or may not be well-known beyond the production world . "  Fans were unimpressed Matthew Perry was n't part of the reunion , although is in rehearsals for stage play , The End of Longing .  A number of fans still had n't received the memo about it not being a real episode .  " Going from what I thought was going to be an actual episode to that crappy interview is severely disappointing , " one person tweeted .  Perhaps we should let this be a lesson to the makers of Game of Thrones , Breaking Bad and other shows a la mode : Let 's allow actors to enjoy their retirement instead of wheeling them out every couple of years to talk about what they ate for lunch .  ( For those wondering , Aniston , Cox and Kudrow ate a garden salad every day for 10 years which Aniston adapted with turkey bacon and chickpeas. )