Man behind 1080 formula threat 'cracked'
http://www.newshub.co.nz/nznews/man-behind-1080-formula-threat-cracked-2016022311

Breaking News  Man behind 1080 formula threat ' cracked ' Updated  Jeremy Kerr admits two blackmail charges over the November 2014 incident , where he sent letters to Fonterra and Federated Farmers threatening that if the Government did n't ban 1080 he would contaminate infant formula supplies with the poison .  While Kerr admits sending the letters , he disputes the Crown 's case that he did it for financial gain . That evidence is being heard at a two-day High Court hearing in Auckland .  This morning police played Kerr 's interview from last year to the court , where he admits sending the letters -- as well as one month later retracting the threats .  In July 2015 Kerr was visited by a detective as part of the investigation , and a month later the letter retracting the threat was sent to that same detective .  During the police interview Kerr originally denied sending the retraction letter , but after the detective interviewing him said they 'd found information on a computer , Kerr admitted he had sent it letter ? " the detective asked .  " Well I have no choice do I ? " Kerr replied .  While he would n't admit to writing the original threat letters at first , he later did .  In the interview , police say DNA from the retraction letter was tested , and was said to be a likely match with Kerr .  Kerr appeared shocked by the revelation in his police interview , telling officers the finding was " staggering " .  Kerr told the detective he " just cracked one day " , and had no idea why he wrote the letters .  " I do n't know why I did it , I honestly just snapped one day , " he said .  Kerr said in the interview it had nothing to do with financial gain or his business involving Feratox - a rival pest control product to 1080 .  Yesterday the court heard how Kerr earned royalties from each sale of Feratox , and the Crown 's case is that he wanted 1080 off the market so sales of " I was n't in a good state " when he wrote the letters .  " I was just really , really angry . "  Kerr thought because he had n't heard anything from police of media about the threats , nothing had come of it .  " I just assumed it had been ignored , " he told police .  When asked why he wrote the letters , he said he did n't know .  " I ca n't describe what I was thinking at the time . I was extremely stressed . "  At the end of the police interview Kerr was charged with two counts of blackmail , and said he was " sorry " for doing it .  The hearing has just been adjourned until 10th March and Kerr is due to be sentenced March 23.