Opinion: Bold approach in science sector is essential to boost NZ's ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/science/78098110/opinion-bold-approach-in-science-sector-is-essential-to-boost-nzs-innovation

new zealand is not as innovative as it thinks . a new science environment to foster talent and research is desperately needed , argues professor tony kettle .  the poor state of science funding in new zealand has been highlighted recently .  refreshingly , the comments came in an editorial in the press , which squarely addressed the dilemmas faced by scientists short of research funds . that was in the wake of the news some researchers had been funded by coca-cola . unfortunately , the editorial did not capture the true extent to which science funding in new zealand has deteriorated has not yet been revealed .  the impact inadequate investment in science has on our ability to develop an innovative economy has also not been addressed . by international standards , science is poorly funded here . success rates hover below 10 per cent for grants from the health research council and the marsden fund -- the major sponsor of contestable basic research .  this means 90 per cent of scientists applying for these grants are wasting time and talent . . research that advances the understanding of the world we live in increases the competitiveness of new zealand business and improves the health of our society . even when successful , science grants are often meagre . they do not enable truly cutting-edge science without the help of large well-funded overseas laboratories .  a recent international study showed new zealand was comparatively weak at innovation . robust innovation is essential for economic growth and social progress . apparently , our number-eight wire mentality does not cut the mustard .  the information technology and innovation foundation ( itif ) -- a think-tank based in washington dc -- assessed 56 countries on factors reflecting the extent to which their economic and trade policies contribute to innovation . the countries assessed account for 90 per cent of the global economy . the data for new zealand is telling . as a nation , we contribute little to global innovation , languishing well behind the scandinavian countries , western europe , singapore , the united states and japan .  our innovative spirit was clearly demonstrated to be hampered by our low investment 's r&amp;d investment , as assessed by the itif , was poor . we ranked 30th and our investment per capita was at best half that of the top 10 countries . our universities are even more impoverished . we ranked 32nd with an investment of us$76 per capita , about 20 per cent of the investment into universities in singapore , switzerland and denmark . we were also well behind australia at us$249 per capita .  we have no universities in the world 's top 50 -- australia , singapore and sweden have one each . but our universities do punch slightly above their weight , ranking 17th overall and producing scientific literature of comparative quality to the top nations . this assessment shows our scientists can contribute more to innovation . government , however , needs to be bold and back our research institutes and universities .  it could be argued that , because our economy is small , we can not afford to spend more on research . yet an assessment of health research suggests we are missing many opportunities for innovation and simply can not to other areas of new zealand research , health research is relatively well funded , with about $100 million per year invested by the government . although this appears to be a large amount of money , it is only $25 per capita or a dozen beers a year . this is hardly enough to tackle our uniquely high rates of suicide , inflammatory bowel disease and alcohol abuse , plus the embarrassingly poor health of maori . these are problems only kiwi researchers are prepared to solve .  it beggars belief we do not spend more on health research and that much of it is reliant on charitable organisations scratching around for funds to prop up internationally respected research groups .  it is easy to appreciate the frustrations of other scientists working in less well-funded , but equally important , areas of science . no wonder they look to australia , europe and the us for better employment prospects .  as a nation struggling to stay in the first world , we need to face the facts and make substantial investment in research that delivers innovation for research decades ago , has leapt well ahead of new zealand and continues to invest massively in cutting-edge science .  we are well-placed to gain from increased investment in research . we produce many bright young students capable of footing it with the best . we need to create a science environment that inspires them to contribute to our prosperity and health . through their talents , new zealand will be able to move from a boom and bust commodity-based economy to one driven by brain power .  tony kettle is a professor of biomedical research and director of the centre for free radical research at the university of otago , christchurch , and research director of the canterbury medical research foundation . he is principal investigator on grants from the marsden fund and health research council .