Prince dead: Kiwi celebrities express their sorrow over the superstar ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/entertainment/celebrities/79214847/prince-dead-kiwi-celebrities-express-their-sorrow-over-the-superstar-musicians-death

Prince is dead - share your memories  Share your stories , photos and videos .  " At age seven he had a giant Purple Rain poster on his bedroom wall , next to his toy box and Smurf village . Whatever Jay liked , I soon followed and I can remember dancing and jumping on his bed to When Doves Cry , " she wrote .  " A few years later , we wrote one of our first songs together , which consisted of original lyrics and melody sung over the lick from the ending of Kiss , more teens emulating a musical idol than straight plagiarism .  " He is my memories of jumping on the bed with my brother , he is the sweat of my first school dance , he is the sound of my first covers gig , he is the music to the opening of Happy Feet , to which I now dance with my two and four-year-old boys and always get a big kiss at the end of the last line ... ' I just want your you , Prince , for scoring so much happiness in my life . "  Kimbra , who was presented her Grammy by Prince , simply wrote : " Please tell me this is not happening " .  Film and comedy heavyweights Taika Waititi and Madeleine Sami mourned by sharing a txt exchange they shared when Bowie passed , in which they lamented the loss of a hero but comforted each other by saying , " we 've still got Prince " .  Self-Managed Artist of The Year nominee Mel Parsons said the passing of the " musical giant was a huge tragedy for the industry and fans .  Capital C : Concert promoter Phil Sprey was sad to find out another " great " was gone .  Sprey said he tried a number of times to get Prince to play a stadium sized concert in New Zealand , without success .  He said he had been a fan since he was a senior executive with cinema chain Kerridge Odeon in the 1980s .  " One of my jobs was to sit on a preview the country and decide whether we would screen them here . I clearly recall Prince 's ' Purple Rain ' as I was the only person on in the group to appreciate his talent and fought hard to get it released in New Zealand .  " Took a lot of effort to finally get all and sundry to give it a chance . It was released and went on to become a music culture classic . A memory savoured . "  Sprey said Prince 's passing was another sad reminder that many of the pioneers who started genres and remained relevant for decades were either passing away , retiring or no longer able to perform .  Here 's what the rest of your favourite Kiwi celebs are saying about Prince :