Record Low Airfares NZ - Europe From $999 Return
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/BU1604/S00708/record-low-airfares-nz-europe-from-999-return.htm

record low airfares nz - europe from $999 return  flight centre nz has today released record low return airfares to europe from $999 .  sale fares have typically ranged around $1,300 to $1,600 in the past , depending on time of travel and airline carrier .  the record low fares are for travel to amsterdam via shanghai between september 8 and october 16 2016 and are on sale until midnight on april 23 2016 .  sean berenson , flight centre nz general manager product says increased capacity and competition among airlines has seen record low airfares come through in the last six months .  " the market is very competitive right now which has been driven by increased competition on popular routes . this has driven a frenzy of sales activity which is great for the consumer while it lasts . "  five years ago the average cost of a return airfare to europe retailed between $2,000 and $2,500 , double the cost of the airfare flight centre nz have available through china eastern airlines from today .  " it ' of travel will continue so my advice would be for kiwis to make the most of these record lows and travel far and wide while it 's so affordable and accessible . "  to showcase the affordability of airfares in what flight centre nz term the ' golden era of travel ' a comparison has been made looking at the cost of a return airfare from auckland to europe with the average weekly wage of a new zealander between 1947 and 2016 :  prices based on the average cost of an airfare from auckland - europe :  infratil today announced a us$30m deal with wrightspeed inc. to supply its first-in-kind , award-winning electric powertrain technology -- the route ? 500 , which it intends to deploy on its public transport business through nz bus . more&gt;&gt;  all charges brought by the commission are under the fair trading act 1986 . they relate to two models of baby city 's household cots ( milano 3-in-1 sleigh style cot ( sleigh cot ) and milano phoenix cot ( phoenix cot ) ) sold between october 2014 and october that climate change , already underway , will almost certainly accelerate this century unless drastic action is taken to reduce global emissions of greenhouse gases ... changes expected to impact new zealand include at least 30cm and possibly more than one metre of sea-level rise this century . more&gt;&gt;  the government is seeking public submissions on changes to the racing act which could see it impose fees on foreign gambling operators accepting bets from new zealand , as well as expanding its own product range to compete better with online platforms . more&gt;&gt;