Mysterious appearances and disappearances
http://www.stuff.co.nz/nelson-mail/opinion/79175866/mysterious-appearances-and-disappearances

mysterious appearances and disappearances  opinion : i 've finally mastered it . vanishing , that is . those ' invisibility glasses ' i ordered from the back of a comic in 1965 were certainly a dead-loss . they had blacked-out lenses ! the only thing that vanished was my hard-earned 2/6d over the horizon .  no , my lifelong quest for invisibility is realised at last thanks to the flag referendum . yes , i was as disgusted as you were with the whole shambolic process , but being a staunch believer in democracy , i could n't not vote , so i scrawled ' neither , try again ' across the bottom of the ballot paper .  we knew the incumbent would prevail , given its weak opponent , but i was hanging out for the result to see the extent of the protest vote . added to the silver fern muster , this would give us an indication of how many people actually want a new flag -- plus a margin for voters who gave the old ensign a grudging tick . protest votes -- at least in the media , and yet those same news reports backgrounded the first flag plebiscite , when nearly 10 percent of voters ( 149,747 ) gave a two-finger salute to the entire shortlist .  in electoral terms all this righteous anger disappears into the euphemistic ' informal ' file . we ca n't have rowdy plebs disturbing our political masters , so they are swept from sight under the informal rug .  the final result of that second poll now lists about 5000 informals and a similar muster of invalids , or ballot papers where the voters ' preference was unclear . you have to go to the electoral commission website to find this out . the media just lumped the two figures together -- sweeping the rug under another rug .  can you disappear votes that have already disappeared ? it appears so , and this became the final humiliation in a process i dearly wanted to deliver a flag the rest of the world -- and half the locals -- could recognise .  my head hurt . i decided to she 's an oldie now , so short strolls are all she can manage ( though she probably says the same of me ) .  the redevelopment plans for the huge ocean lodge site in tahunanui have been posted on a billboard . this scheme could rescue the suburb from laceration by state highway . tahuna has a lot going for it , and not a lot happening for it . all that is about to change .  or not . this ca n't be right . the much-needed ' supermarket ' is a superette , and half the size of the ' bar/restaurant ' -- which bears an uncomfortable resemblance to the 1970s booze barn it will replace .  if the planners ' priorities seem upside down , so is the plan itself from the beach rd vantage-point . i ca n't get my bearings . where are the kauri trees ? they must be preserved . i tilt my upper body sideways 90 degrees . still ca n't quite ...  we walk on up to the lights and the start of the new rocks rd pedestrians stroll back towards town on dappled paving . cyclists rediscover their smiles now that the killer juggernauts have been banished . what little vehicular traffic there is sticks to the 20km speed limit -- as you do with road humps below and police surveillance drones above .  more food carts are appearing every week . we sit on the boardwalk while i munch a delicious empanada . a classical-guitar busker is on song tonight . i 've never heard hotel california sound so evocative .  the setting sun casts fairydust on tasman bay . it 's a view you want to fall to your knees and worship . a brace of devotees walk on water towards fifeshire rock , completing the biblical ambience .  little electric shuttle-carts carry more serious diners along to the restaurant belt , where laughter and music spill into the street . a few of the boutique stores around the old anchor building stay open late into the evening , but our browsing is halted by a ribbon across the road .  it 's the official opening of the last section to it -- and the new performing arts centre ( delivered at a bargain $5m cost to ratepayers , as blenheim has done ) .  a spokeswoman for the victory community takes the microphone to thank all for the excellent engineering work on the southern link . part-undergrounding , soundproof canopies , sight-screening and exhaust-fume scrubbers mean residents hardly know the road is there , she says . and the trust fund set up to compensate residents for their sacrifice on our behalf -- with a top-up levied from rocks rd/tahunanui drive property-owners -- is pumping more life into the neighbourhood .  the mayor of the new nelson/tasman council and the assembled councillors hug one another with pride . oddly , i do n't recognise any of their faces .  as the ribbon is cut , a shaft of sunlight glints off the mayor 's chains , like divine benediction . my eyes smart ...  " can you hear me ? "  darkness lifts as a torch-beam stabs my pupils . this divine presence is an angel in white coat .  " do n't try to to restrain me on the bed .  " where am i ? "  " a&amp;e . you passed out . the man who called the ambulance said you were doing headstands in front of a billboard ? "  " oh yes . but i saw the most beautiful things ... "  " hallucinations . not uncommon . "  " people walking on water ... "  " board-paddlers , i should think . "  " councillors hugging ... "  " hmmm . i 'll book an mri . "  " you mean , none of it was real ? "  she shrugs . my eyes focus on the chart beside her , headed ' invalid ' .  " oh no , i 've disappeared again . "  she follows my gaze . " relax . it says in-valid . patient . "  " thank god . " my relief is brief . " shivers , the dog ... "  " sorted . she 's had a dip in the rehab pool and is lounging on a deckchair with your way home . "  " home ? yeah , about that . can you do me a favour , doc ? put me into a coma again until the local body elections in october ? "  " i ca n't swing that one , sorry . "  " ethically ? "  " no , there was a council meeting last night and all our a&amp;e beds are full , plus the mental health unit . "  footnote : i ca n't really dedicate this column to victoria wood because every bloody one of them is dedicated to victoria wood . she was my hero .