What's on this long Anzac weekend
http://spy.nzherald.co.nz/on-trend/whats-on-this-long-anzac-weekend/

What 's on this long Anzac weekend  The Proclaimers  Billed as Scotland 's favourite sons - or at the very least , Scotland 's favourite wearers of identical thick-rimmed spectacles - The Proclaimers , twins Craig and Charlie Reid , are on a New Zealand tour with their band this month . Sunday will see them play at Hamilton 's Claudelands Arena , while hits like I 'm On My Way and Letter from America will ring from Auckland 's ASB Theatre on Monday . Kiwi muso Greg Johnson is also on the bill .  Tomorrow and Monday , 7pm . Tickets via Ticketek .  Feeling it  Any excuse to wear leg-warmers in public is one we welcome , and attendees at Flashdance - The Musical could be forgiven for getting into the 80s spirit . Those who loved the classic dance movie - which clocked up more than $150 million at the box office - will enjoy the musical , in Auckland until May 1 . All the favourite tunes - think What a Feeling , Maniac , Gloria , and  June 3-6 , Baycourt Theatre , Tauranga . Tickets from the Baycourt box office or ticketek.co.nz .  Fine art  Artists Daniel Tippett and Tracey Tawhiao are in Grey Lynn running a pop-up exhibition of small and large-scale paintings , limited edition prints and selected local handmade items . Daniel is renowned for his public murals , the latest being along the new Northwestern cycleway . Tracey 's best known for large , international-scale installations . They also host live performance and plenty of fine art for Anzac weekend .  Today , art and music from 2pm , 41 Surrey Cres . Art on sale daily until May 1 .  25 April  Film-maker Leanne Pooley 's innovative feature documentary brings the story of the New Zealand experiences at Gallipoli to life for a modern audience through a reimagined world . Using graphic novel-like animation , 25 April brings World War I experiences out of the usual black and white archive pictures and into vibrant , dynamic colour . Weaving together animated " interviews " based on the diaries , letters and memoirs of six people who tale of war , friendship , loss and redemption using the words of those who experienced it .  From April 28 , NZ cinemas .  Illuminate  Take one of the country 's pre-eminent composers , throw in 150 musicians from around the world and imagine watching the results beamed much , much larger than life . No Man 's Land is a film born of giant aspirations . The project was led by New Zealand composer John Psathas , who wrote the music for the performance filmed on location at the sites of the Western , Eastern and Mediterranean fronts of the Great War . It is performed by musicians from more than 20 countries , who share one common thread - they are all descended from opposing forces of the war . Former Prime Minister Helen Clark praised the film as having " a strong message of reconciliation , through the common language of music " . It will be projected on to the northern outside wall of Auckland Museum in the lead-up to Anzac Day . Blankets and cushions are a must-bring .  Plan ahead 's nothing like playing a part in environmental history to warm the cockles of one 's heart . Next weekend 's Puhinui Stream clean-up is not only an altruistic opportunity , but a New Zealand record attempt . Organisers , the Manukau Beautification Charitable Trust , hope the clean-up will be the biggest community effort in the country 's history , and are aiming to get at least 2000 volunteers helping to clean the Manukau stream and Otara creek up to the foreshore . Both locations are notorious urban dumping grounds . Register a team , or follow the efforts on Twitter on #NZLARGESTCLEANUP .  Next week : Get crafty  Winter is a great time for an indoor hobby , and there are plenty to choose from at the Stitches &amp; Craft Show . From quilting to floristry and textile art , every craft you can imagine will be packed under one roof , with some of the country 's top quilters to exhibit their wares . There will also be tips on " upcycling " , and the latest trends in knitting , embroidery , card making , toy-making . There will also be areas to make your own take-home projects .  Next week : Celebration  The contribution Auckland 's refugee population make to this city is set to be celebrated with a community day outside the City Library . Find cuisine from Iraq , Myanmar , Ethiopia and Sudan , play interactive activities or chill in the children 's zone . There will also be music and poetry .  April 29 , 11am-2pm , Central City Library , Lorne St Concourse .  Next month : Sanctuary  May Day might be a traditional springtime festival , but the team at Sanctuary Mountain Maungatautari have repurposed it for the Southern Hemisphere . The ecological restoration project in Pukeatua , near Cambridge , is the largest in the country and for May Day will run guided walks through forest and wetlands , with afternoon tea , kids activities and food on offer .