Ireland's Joe Schmidt confirms he is considering job offer from ...
http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/rugby/super-rugby/81173686/Irelands-Joe-Schmidt-confirms-he-is-considering-job-offer-from-Highlanders

probed about the approach from the highlanders at the irish team announcement ahead of the second test against the springboks in johannesburg , schmidt did nothing to quell speculation he may soon return home .  " whatever happens , this is the full focus of my attention and the one thing i want to do no matter what happens in the future is i want to leave irish rugby in as good a shape as possible . if that 's this time next year or if it 's in three years time , i 'm not sure , " schmidt said .  " all i know is that this is something we 've got to try to do and we 're investing a lot of time and effort into the players , into trying to be as good with a broader group as we possibly can be .  " hopefully , there 'll be some evidence of that this weekend .  " this was always a chance for us to broaden that and no matter what happens , the coaching group as it and less to do with it . "  asked if his move to the highlanders was a done deal , schmidt said : " no , that was on the back of one conversation that roger clark had with me and i have made absolutely no commitment to the highlanders . i 've made no commitment to anyone other than my current employers .  " i think it happens to a lot of coaches every so often , because i think that the clubs are always forward planning . provinces , clubs , franchises know when their staff are coming off contract and therefore they often become aware of when other coaches are coming off contract .  " they find out whether there 's any interest or not . i have n't had any more than a very light conversation with rog and i think they 've done a super job down there at the highlanders .  " i watched their semifinal and final last year . i do n't want to go in and muck them up anyway , they look like they 're doing just a guy i know a bit and scott mcleod and those guys are still going to be around there next year and i do n't think , for me , that it 's a distraction .  " i have n't even given it any thought to be honest , because the conversation was just before the tour and i 've very much got my hands full right now . "  schmidt has forged a successful coaching career since leaving new zealand in 2007 . the former bay of plenty and blues assistant secured successive european titles with leinster , before taking ireland to back-to-back six nations championships in 2014/15 , and last week guided them to their first success on south african soil despite his team playing with 14 men for 60 minutes .  overall , schmidt has a 71 per cent win ratio with ireland . he is also close with fellow kiwi coach vern cotter and , should he pursue the highlanders job , may look to coax him home from the national job with scotland .  former hurricanes coach mark hammett , who comes also likely to throw his hat in the ring for the highlanders head coach role in 2018.