Kardashian blasts Swift as a liar
http://spy.nzherald.co.nz/celebrity/kardashian-blasts-swift-as-a-liar/

kardashian blasts swift as a liar  kim kardashian has given a scathing interview about taylor swift , insisting the bad blood star is lying about her side of the now infamous feud with kanye west .  fans went crazy following the release of the rapper 's the life of pablo single famous , on which he said : ' i feel like me and taylor might still have sex . why ? i made that b***h famous . '  taylor quickly slammed the 39-year-old in her grammys acceptance speech , but now kim kardashian is insisting that she in fact had approved the lyrics , and was just keen to continue playing the victim , according to the daily mail .  warning : song contains explicit language  " she totally approved that , " the 35-year-old cover girl told gq , adding : " she totally knew that that was coming out . she wanted to all of a sudden act like she did n't . "  kim also questioned : ' what rapper would call a girl that he was the keeping up with the kardashians star explained that a videographer had been filming as they took the phone call - the call in which taylor had approved the controversial line .  kanye reportedly commissions videographers to film everything whenever he is working on an album .  she said that taylor and kanye 's conversation is on video , and that the blank space star " totally gave the okay . "  " rick rubin was there . so many respected people in the music business heard that conversation and knew , " she said .  so why have n't they just released the video of the conversation to clear their name ? kim says taylor 's lawyers sent over a letter saying : " do n't ever let that footage come out of me saying that . destroy it . "  kim said the lawyers urged : " do n't you dare do anything with that footage " also asking the famous couple to " destroy it . "  she explained that they had n't intentionally filmed the phone call as evidence against taylor just happened to be continuously rolling .  " you just film everything , and whatever makes the edit , then you see , then you send out releases . it 's like what we do for our show . "  after discussing the tape with kim , gq reported that they had reached out to kanye 's team , who confirmed both the existence of the footage , and that they had heard from taylor 's legal team .  gq printed the response , in which taylor 's team declined to answer specific questions , but noted that " taylor can not understand why kanye west , and now kim kardashian , will not just leave her alone . "  the full statement reads : " taylor does not hold anything against kim kardashian as she recognizes the pressure kim must be under and that she is only repeating what she has been told by kanye west . "  " however , that does not change the fact that much of what kim is saying is incorrect . kanye west and taylor only spoke once on in january of 2016 and they have never spoken since . taylor has never denied that conversation took place . "  " it was on that phone call that kanye west also asked her to release the song on her twitter account , which she declined to do . kanye west never told taylor he was going to use the term ' that b***h ' in referencing her . a song can not be approved if it was never heard . kanye west never played the song for taylor swift . "  it concluded : " taylor heard it for the first time when everyone else did and was humiliated . kim kardashian 's claim that taylor and her team were aware of being recorded is not true , and taylor can not understand why kanye west , and now kim kardashian , will not just leave her alone . "  kim excused her husband 's use of the word b***h , explaining : " i mean , he 's called me a b***h in his songs . that 's just , like , what they say . word ! how dare he ? ' not in a million years . "  the kimojis creator seemed genuinely surprised about the situation , suggesting that taylor " just , you know , flipped all of a sudden . "  she shared : " it was funny because on the call with kanye , taylor said , ' when i get on the grammy red carpet , all the media is going to think that i 'm so against this , and i 'll just laugh and say , ' the joke 's on you , guys . i was in on it the whole time . ' "  the star received much praise for her hitback at kanye - following the release of  famous - as she subtly digged the rapper in her acceptance speech .  she said : " as the first woman to win album of the year at the grammys twice , i want to say to all the young women out there : there are going to be people along the way who will try to undercut your success or take " but if you just focus on the work and you do n't let those people sidetrack you , someday when you get where you 're going , you 'll look around and you 'll know it was you and the people who love you who put you there and that will be the greatest feeling in the world . "  and that 's not the first time the pair have shared ill will at an awards show , as kanye famously interrupted taylor 's 2009 acceptance speech for video of the year at the mtv video music awards , insisting that " beyonc ? has one of the best videos of all time . "  meanwhile , wife kim insisted she did not have a problem with kanye 's lyrics , despite them discussing him having sex with another woman .  " that does n't bother me at all , " said the star , who recently celebrated her two-year wedding anniversary .  " i 'm usually sitting there in the studio when he 's writing it . i 'm not offended . i could care @ @ @ @ @ @