Noren makes strong finish on day two in Aberdeen
http://www.sportal.co.nz/golf/news/noren-makes-strong-finish-on-day-two-in-aberdeen/1s3v25ndw4eq91nz2ar9an69xh

alex noren finished with a flourish to claim the second-round lead at the scottish open on friday , coming home in just 31 shots on his final nine holes .  danny lee had been the long-time clubhouse leader following his round of 66 , but noren , starting at the 10th , produced an identical score to move onto eight under par for the tournament - one shot clear of the new zealander and england 's eddie pepperell .  " i like this place , " noren , who enjoyed a run of five birdies in seven holes that started at the second , said of castle stuart .  " it 's a really fun course to play . a few very tricky holes and then a few holes where you can go for the green in two on the par fives and you can reach , i think , two greens today on the par four in one , which is very fun for us .  " some weeks , we play courses where it 's tough all the way around , mix , so i like it .  " it was n't easy but i managed to hit some good shots . it got better and better -- i played steady on the front nine , and then my last nine holes , i really got it going .  " it 's always nice when you get it going and then another birdie maybe drops , and that 's what happened today . "  lee had been due to defend the greenbrier classic on the pga tour before the event was cancelled due to devastating floods in west virginia , and has promised to donate $500 to flood-relief efforts for every birdie he makes in aberdeen .  " i made a lot of birdies which is good , " said lee , whose running total now stands at $5,500 . " it 's really unfortunate what happened to the west virginia area .  " i 'm donating a little bit of money so i 'm happy i had a lot of birdies and hopefully i can put some eagles worth $1,000 to the fundraising effort in there hend struggled to replicate their day-one performances , posting rounds of 72 and 73 respectively to fall back through the field .  spanish duo jorge campillo and alejandro canizares , meanwhile , matched the day 's best score of 66 to launch themselves into contention at six and four under respectively following underwhelming opening rounds .  matt fitzpatrick and thongchai jaidee were among the players to miss the cut .