12 questions to ask yourself before making a big decision
http://www.stuff.co.nz/life-style/well-good/inspire-me/81933885/12-questions-to-ask-yourself-before-making-a-big-decision

12 questions to ask yourself before making a big decision  often , our hesitance to make up our minds when confronted with a big choice results in not taking any action whatsoever .  moving to a new city . asking for a promotion . hunting for a different job . trying online dating . breaking up with your s.o .  life is packed with decisions , big and small . but some require deeper contemplation . often , our hesitance to make up our minds when confronted with a big choice results in not taking any action whatsoever .  we avoid it . we want to hide under the covers and hope our need to do something will pass .  but the harsh truth is that inaction is a decision too . if we do n't move , forge ahead for that vp title , start a side project this summer or call off our less-than-satisfactory relationship , we are deciding to stay where we are .  123rf  ask yourself : what do i want five , even 10 years is looming in your life , do n't hide . ask yourself these 12 questions -- and write down your answers -- to get clear on what 's the right choice for you .  1 . how long have i been thinking about this ? this is a brilliant question that a good life coach would ask you . if someone comes to me wanting to start a party-planning business , it 's very different if their answer is " since i saw a movie about it two days ago ! " versus " two or three years -- it 's always been in the back of my mind . "  the length of time is a good indicator of how important something is to you . the longer you 've been thinking about it , the more important it tends to be .  123rf  picture yourself and your life a few months down the road .  2 . how committed am i to this change ? rate your level of commitment on a scale out of 10 . think about the amount of work , is your level of commitment higher than a 7 ? that 's great data for your decision !  3 . when i think about it , how does my body feel ? imagine the potential outcomes of the decision . picture yourself and your life a few months down the road . how does it feel ? how does your body respond ? excitement , a little nervousness and relief are very positive emotions ! beware of feelings of dullness or indifference .  4 . am i feeling fear or intuition ? our fear often tells us what we need to do next . that 's because when something really matters to us it scares us . hey -- we do n't want to fail or screw up on this very important thing ! get real about the fear you might be feeling . think : could my reluctance here be intuitive -- guiding me toward the right path ?  5 . is this decision in line with my long-term goals ? ask yourself : what do i want five , even 10 years from now ? write plays into that longer-term plan .  for example , if you 've been single for a while and hope to be married with kids in a few years , getting out there and creating an online dating profile is probably smart ! do what your future self will thank you for .  6 . what are my precise options ? let 's go deeper . what specific options are there ? are there only two ? are there more ? are there other options you might not have considered ? write them down -- the possibilities might surprise you !  7 . what are the risks of my options ? when you get clear on your options and have outlined the one you most want to pursue , ask : what is the real risk of doing this ? list every single thing that is stopping you and the absolute worst outcomes of making the decision . now be honest : how risky is it , really ?  8 . what is the risk of not doing it ? this is one of my favourite questions ! , a calling to move somewhere new , a desire to end a relationship -- what are you giving up when you do n't do it ? because inaction is action , the truth here can be very sobering . what might you be missing out on in your life if you do nothing ?  9 . is now the right time ? bear in mind : not all decisions need to be made immediately . but there are few real reasons we ever need to delay making a big one when it presents itself . remember , life is always uncertain and time waits for no one .  10 . if not now , when ? if right this moment is n't the best time to make this decision , give yourself a deadline . but do n't wait too long -- deadlines made further than six months out rarely work because we can not " taste " them . what will you commit to -- before the holidays , this year ?  11 . what does my past experience tell me about this ? if you . when have you had to make big decisions before ? did you survive ? are you happy you made them ? how can past choices inform you in making this choice ?  12 . where is the fun ? change is scary , yes . but growth never happens without change . there are no exceptions . can you see or anticipate the fun in making this decision ?  a client of mine went through an emotional breakup last year but soon enough snagged herself a great studio apartment in a neighbourhood she loves and took her first solo vacation . she 's about to take her second trip alone , and it 's all she talks about . but this could only happen after her big decision to move on as a single woman . even in tough times you can focus on the positive -- it 's always there !  the takeaway ... making a big decision does n't have to be so daunting . there are no right or wrong answers or right or wrong ways to live your life . a lot of decision in the grander scheme of your life to put it in perspective . you do n't have to ask other people what they think . your inner wisdom has the answers .