Hayden Roulston returns to Olympic team in strong lineup for Rio
http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/olympics/81932081/hayden-roulston-returns-to-olympic-team-in-strong-lineup-for-rio

Hayden Roulston returns in ' toughest Olympic team we 've had to pick '  Hayden Roulston has completed a remarkable OIympic comeback , being named in the NZ team going to Rio after his last Games venture was in Beijing in 2008 .  A target of four Olympic medals has been set by Cycling New Zealand after announcing what they labelled the toughest team they 've ever had to select .  The return of veteran pursuiter Hayden Roulston - eight years after he won silver and bronze in Beijing - is the feature of the 20-strong cycling team for Rio along with an old-fashioned bolter : young sprinter Zac Williams who is reserve for the gold medal favourite sprint team .  The strength of the squad was underlined by those who missed out . Bronze medallist in the keirin in London four years ago , Simon van Velthooven was n't required along with fellow sprinter Matt Archibald who stood on the podium at last year 's world championships .  RYAN PIERSE/ GETTY IMAGES  World champion and Commonwealth Games gold medallist Linda fourth at the London Olympics time trial in 2012 .  After an injury-plagued year , Commonwealth Games silver medallist Jack Bauer missed out on the solitary men 's road spot to in-form Tour de France rider George Bennett for the punishing Rio course , while Alex Frame and Nick Kergozou were the two unlucky pursuit riders .  New Zealand 's men 's pursuit team were world champions in 2015 but bombed at this year 's event , leaving them needing sharp improvement to be a medal force in Rio .  Obvious medal targets are the world champion sprint team of Eddie Dawkins , Sam Webster and Ethan Mitchell ; Dawkins in the keirin after being twice runner-up at world champs ; and world road time trial champion Linda Villumsen . The men 's and women 's pursuit teams are both seen as podium chances .  Cycling NZ high performance director Mark Elliott said is was the hardest Olympic team to pick due to limited spots . The track team was limited to a quota of eight men and seven women , and the selectors decided to use in Williams as a designated reserve .  " We have to be backing ourselves for four medals . We achieved three in London and four is certainly the goal , " Elliott said .  ROBYN EDIE/FAIRFAX NZ  Southland 's Pieter Bulling will be a key figure in the men 's Olympic pursuit team in Rio .  " The key thing for us is to progress from bronzes to silvers and golds . If we do that and produce four that 'll be a continuation of the momentum of this programme over the last four or five years . We still do n't have the depth and consistency of the rowing programme but we 're stepping in the right direction . "  Cycling is second only to rowing in terms of their government funding for Olympic campaigns .  At age 35 , Roulston completed a remarkable comeback after switching to a road career post-Beijing , where he won medals in the individual and team pursuits .  After appearing off the pace earlier this year , he made a late charge at the endurance camp in Bulling , Dylan Kennett , Aaron Gate and Regan Gough as the pursuit five .  " There 's been a really tight group of guys with very little separating us all and I knew it was n't going to be easy , " Roulston said .  " Once the worlds team was named it was clear it would be harder rather than easier from that point on . I 'm very grateful to have had that support from Cycling NZ and show that I do still have it . It 's a pretty proud moment . "  Roulston and Gough were n't at the world championships in London where the team , defending their title from 2015 , flopped . It meant nervous times in camp in recent weeks , knowing two would miss out . Roulston likened it to the reality show Survivor .  " I have n't enjoyed this process as much as ' 08 , when we had a group of six and we knew we were all going . It 's really been good up until the last couple of weeks .  training hard and supporting each other , but there 's been some anxiousness at night talking about what 's going to happen . It was n't the nicest time . "  Coach Dayle Cheatley said Roulston had progressed quickly in recent weeks and the five were picked on form .  Williams , from Auckland , has only been part of the high performance programme in Cambridge for two years but the selectors wanted cover for their sprint team who are the top priority . That meant bad luck for van Velthooven and Archibald who were making last-ditch efforts to qualify .  " Zac has just nudged himself ahead in the final phase . He offers a lot to that sprint team and we were looking for a reserve . It 's a tough call around Matt and Simon who are long-serving members of that sprint squad , but it was selected on form and performances , " Cheatley said .  Villumsen , who 's been campaigning in the United States , heads the women 's team and is a huge chance of a podium after last year Already-named sprinter Natasha Hansen is joined by Olivia Podmore to form a two-woman sprint team , while the five-strong pursuit lineup was predictable . Selectors picked the same five who were third fastest in qualifying at this year 's world championships in the Waikato trio of Rushlee Buchanan , Jaime Nielsen and Racquel Sheath , Mid-Canterbury 's Lauren Ellis and Auckland 's Georgia Williams .  Under coach Brendon Cameron there are high hopes they can push for a podium spot after their fourth placing at the worlds in London .