Housing Approach Still Piecemeal
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/PA1607/S00171/housing-approach-still-piecemeal.htm

housing approach still piecemeal  unitedfuture leader , peter dunne , is renewing his call for a national housing summit to develop real solutions to the country 's housing problems .  " over the past week we have seen an abundance of essentially scattergun policies proposed indeed , the game of political football has been quite active , " said mr dunne .  " national says labour is just copying its policies and then , curiously , that it will not work -- and labour announces a so-called affordable housing package , without any indication of how young families will be financed into these homes .  " it all sounds like the mad hatters tea party , if it were not so serious .  " we still have the fundamental problem that is politicians trying to outspend each other , what we need is real solutions from the sectors that need to implement them .  " we can only get that through having all the stakeholders come together and develop a thorough workplan , involving central and local government , the reserve and social housing agencies " mr dunne said .  unitedfuture is calling on all political parties to come to the table and work on convening the summit , a model of policy making that has a proven track record .  " we can see the success of summits like these , look at national 's jobs summit back in 2009 , that conference led to a meaningful workplan that developed solutions in the long and short terms . "  unitedfuture believes the fundamental goal of any housing summit must be more comprehensive than asking political parties who can promise more billions to solve a problem .  " we need to be looking at a wide range of solutions that will ensure that a family that earns a steady income can be able to save for a reasonable period of time and be in a position to put a deposit on a house . " mr dunne says .  " we will not get to that goal by turning this debate into a political quagmire . "  labour party leader andrew little has unveiled a new he would use non-government organisations to cover a shortfall in emergency housing that would almost treble the number of beds available . more&gt;&gt;  also :  green party mp kevin hague will today table a petition in parliament calling for an official apology to , and pardon of , people convicted of consensual acts under anti-homosexuality laws that were overturned 30 years ago . more&gt;&gt;  associate local government minister hon louise upston has announced the appointment of peter winder as a crown manager . mr winder 's role will be to support the kaipara district council when it returns to a fully-elected council following the 8 october local elections . more&gt;&gt;  the ministry of health is still pursuing the government 's social bonds pilots , claiming to have learnt a number lessons after the wise group withdrew from what would have been the first programme funded with such an instrument . more&gt;&gt;  " we are disappointed , but not surprised , that the minister has elected to take her advice on the issue of iwi representation from a political advocacy group , rather than iwi leadership , whanganui , tuwharetoa , nga rauru . more&gt;&gt;