Organiser hopes Taranaki's Big Night Out will raise $20k for Hospice
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/news/82282198/organiser-hopes-taranakis-big-night-out-will-raise-20k-for-hospice

Organiser hopes Taranaki 's Big Night Out will raise $20k for Hospice  TARYN UTIGER  Last updated 11:40 , July 20 2016  Robert Charles/FAIRFAX NZ  The Big Night Out organiser and artist Ray Hopkinson , left , is hoping to get a full house for the concert . Hospice Taranaki CEO Kevin Nielsen , vocalist Bruce Sutton and the New Plymouth Club 's Bill Foley will be helping to fill the seats .  The last time old Taranaki bands came together they partied almost until sunrise , but this time Ray Hopkinson reckons they will be home a little bit earlier .  " It was huge . Half-past three we finished last time . This time we 've got a licence until 1am , " Hopkinson said .  Back in 2006 , 700 people packed the New Plymouth Club to dance in nostalgia to the musical delights of local bands from the 1950s through to the 80s .  Supplied  Former Taranaki man Midge Marsden will headline The Big Night Out .  The sold-out event was called The Last Terry Hignett , and it raised $15,000 for Taranaki 's Te Rangimarie Hospice .  This time the event , on August 20 , is called Big Night Out and Hopkinson is hoping to raise $20,000 for the charity .  " If we can sell our 700 tickets , we will be smiling , " he said .  " The last one we had was ten years ago and that was a bands reunion . It 's sort of been in the back of our minds to do it again . I thought , well , if we are going to do it , let 's do it now .  " To get some of the old bands back was difficult . Some of the guys had moved out of the country , some of them have passed away . So , we thought , we 've got enough really good local talent here , so I 've managed to contact all of these different groups . Old and new .  " Some go back a long time , to the days of the hotels and the Included in the line-up for the August show is the crowd favourite of the 2006 gig - Taranaki 's Midge Marsden .  There will also be Kount Five Plus Two , Shaskeen Reel , Words with the Birds , Midlife Crisis , Class Act , Emily Riordan and Charlie Winters Best of British Group .  Hopkinson said he expected it would be the biggest night of the year for people " of his age group " .  " Now the local bars cater for the younger ones and people in our age group are starved of a really big night out . We thought this was an opportunity to not only support the Hospice , but to give people the chance to let their hair down and have a good night out . "  Taranaki Hospice chief executive Kevin Neilsen said he was impressed with the great line-up .  " The Last Gasp Reunion 10 years ago was an outstanding success and when Ray approached us saying that he and his colleagues had found they have a few more " last gasps " and were keen Neilsen said .  He said Hospice Taranaki would provide care and support to more than 500 Taranaki people and their families in the next year , and in order to provide these services free of charge , $1.6 million needed to be raised within the community .  " While our fantastic Hospice shops contribute a large part of that amount , we still need support from other events . "  * Big Night Out is on at the New Plymouth Club , Saturday , August 20 . Doors open at 5.30pm . Tickets are $30 and on sale now at the New Plymouth Club , as well as the Hospice shops throughout the region .