Incubator The Icehouse reviews long-term target
http://business.scoop.co.nz/2016/07/20/incubator-the-icehouse-reviews-long-term-target/

July 20 ( BusinessDesk ) -- Business growth and start-up incubator The Icehouse has added more diversity to its governance with a number of appointments to its board and charitable-based owner.Wednesday 20 July 2016 10:47 AM  Incubator The Icehouse has governance refresh as it reviews long-term target  By Fiona Rotherham  July 20 ( BusinessDesk ) -- Business growth and start-up incubator The Icehouse has added more diversity to its governance with a number of appointments to its board and charitable-based owner .  The new appointments to the 10-person board are South Island businessman and investor Greg Tomlinson who attended The Icehouse 's second Owner Manager programme in 2002 , Jonathan Reid who is the co-founder of Velocity Made Good and runs its venture investment arm , and investment banker Kerry McIntosh who is also chair of the board of ICE Angels , the country 's most active angel network .  Entrepreneur Claudia Batten and LanzaTech co-founder Sean Simpson have both resigned as directors .  Former New Zealand Venture Capital Investment Fund chief executive Franceska Banga is one of three new trustees Entrepreneurship Trust .  The other two are Carrfields NZ managing director Craig Carr who is an alumni of the Auckland-based incubator 's seventh Owner Manager programme in 2004 , and Simon Bennett who is chief executive of listed recruitment company AWF Madison and an alumni of the fourth Owner Manager programme in 2003 .  The appointments come as The Icehouse is undertaking a review and refresh of its 2020 target to enable a 10 percent lift in the country 's GDP , looking ahead to the next 10 years out .  The Icehouse chair Chris Quin said the new directors bring a diversity of approach and thinking which will be critical for the incubator 's on-going performance .  David Irving , who chairs the International Centre for Entrepreneurship Trust , said the new board appointments come as the trust has begun widening its charitable giving to youth and iwi and he felt " privileged " to work with a group of business leaders who can draw on different industry backgrounds and have varied skill sets .  Founded in 2001 , The Icehouse has both public funding number of private partners -- AJ Park , Bank of New Zealand , Deloitte , Spark , Visa , and the University of Auckland Business School . It has worked with more than 6,000 owner-managers and entrepreneurs and its start-ups have collectively created over 1400 jobs , raised more than $117 million in funding , and generated over $325 million in revenue .