Road safety chair 'amazed' by driver behaviour
http://www.watoday.com.au/wa-news/road-safety-chair-amazed-by-driver-behaviour-20121023-283ni.html

9 comments so far  w.a has a culture of bad driving , thanks to parents and driving schools , driving school vehicles all go around with signage advertising l to p etc .... do any of them advertise that they actually teach you to drive ? they seem more concerned with people passing their driving test than they are at making sure people can actually drive.why do we have a ' p ' plate system ? if someone is capable of driving then they shoud n't need ' p ' plates , should they ? is it because everyone knows the system is wrong ? parents need to be more vigilant , watch how they drive as the kids watch them , teach them to respect other road users , to share the road , nothing is worth losing your life on the road , and who wants that knock on the door , telling them that their child is dead ..... ? the government have a roll to play here as well , why do they hand out extraordinary licences ? if someone disobeys the then let them buy it back , just because they pay an application fee etc ... so wrong !  commenter  wrong culture  date and time  october 23 , 2012 , 8:16pm  another pseudo academic trotting out the same old same old and refusing to address the real issues of road safety . first and foremost - poor road engineering ; secondly - poorly integrated traffic lights that cause unnecessarilly long waits at lights ; thirdly - the fixation on the revenue raising option of lowering speed limits in total disregard of road design . now go away and leave us alone . ex coppers should rarely be seen and seldom heard ! ! ! !  commenter  beamer  location  east perth  date and time  october 23 , 2012 , 9:49pm  who is this genius . no body ever died because of poor merging skills , sure it can be untidy . speed , drinkdriving , using mobile phones - these activities are out of control . these are the things that matter and result in serious accidents and death . and time  october 23 , 2012 , 10:05pm  if merging skills are to be improved on the freeway , it might actually be beneficial to increase the limit particularly on the mitchell/narrows interchange - too much braking to 80 to keep to an artificially imposed speed limit .  also a source of frustration on the fwy is that drivers do n't observe keep to the left/middle lane preferring to stay in the rh lane at 95km/hr or less - if you can not do a 100 stay to the left . ( it 's now easier to stay at the speed limit in the lh or centre lanes - go figure .  myriad of other issues but i am not sure anyone is listening .  commenter  john p  location  menora  date and time  october 24 , 2012 , 6:45am  the last thing we need to be doing is telling perth drivers to go slower . four simple words **34;253;toolong .  commenter  seq  date and time  october 24 , 2012 , 7:31am  " running a red get away with it " . impossible - popular opinion has it that lycra clad cyclists are the only ones running reds in oz .  commenter  rego - the panacea for everything  location  perth  date and time  october 24 , 2012 , 7:42am  one word- inattention would be the cause of a majority of incidents on the roads not speeding , drink driving , merging or traffic lights ( all are bad though ) . not concentrating fully on the most dangerous task most of us do regularly would have to be a major driver ( sic ) for rad vehicle incidents , couple this with poor driving skills and a do n't care attitude ( ie drink driving , reckless driving ) is a killer  commenter  keylargo  location  perth  date and time  october 24 , 2012 , 8:02am  what about the cars ? why do nt we have yearly safety checks ? can someone please explain why we spend all this money on ' road safety ' but the actual cars are not safety tested . someone has put this togthor ?  commenter  m lopez  location  the mean streets  date and time  october 24 , 2012 , 8:17am  safety concerns for our learners on the roads should be considered . especially making them more visible . i am sick of impatient tailgaters who drive almost up our rear and then curse us for being slow while out on the road with my daughter . she is learning for gods sake , give her a break ! if people could determine they are learners a lot easier , perhaps they would avoid confronting them so much and leave them be . there should be a better system or more visible sign to identify these learners so they are given the berth they need to gain confidence on our roads .