A mug's guide to the Cox Plate
http://www.news.com.au/sport/superracing/a-mugs-guide-to-the-cox-plate-at-moonee-valley/story-fndpqu3p-1226501766235

Pierro is expected to rebound from his Caulfield Guineas defeat with a strong showing in the Cox Plate . Source : Herald Sun  GET all the info you do and do n't need ahead of the WS Cox Plate at Moonee Valley .  WHAT ? IT 'S NOT AT FLEMINGTON ?  Yes , you heard correctly .  Australia 's hottest weight for age race is two suburbs north of our most storied racetrack , at the **47;414;TOOLONG boutique track at Moonee Valley .  What does that mean for you ?  Well , nothing really , but be aware that the straight at Moonee Valley is about as long as your driveway , so steer clear of horses who like to wind up from the back of the field , as there 's simply not enough grass after the home turn for them mow the leaders down .  In a battle for the ages , chased down Sunline ( right ) in the final straight to win the 2002 Cox Plate . Picture : Joe MannSource : News Limited  ONLY know .  Zipping , Jimmy Choux , Mahogany , Whobegotyou , Lonhro .  And they 're just the champion racehorses who could only manage a place in what is traditionally the best weight for age race in Australia .  The list of Cox Plate champions could easily double as a list of the greatest Australian racehorses .  Forget the international raiders . There is n't a single foreign horse in this year 's final field , after English horse Afsare did n't respond to treatment for a fetlock injury .  Instead , all 14 runners are home-grown fancies , which is a welcome change for some , particularly after Dunaden already nabbed the Caulfield Cup .  LIGHT WORK FOR THE KIDS  Weight for age means horses cop it in the neck - and on the back - for every extra year they 've been on this earth .  That 's handy if you 're a gun three-year-old like Pierro , who 'll practically be carrying air while most of the six-year-olds in the field will lug an extra 9.5kg around the 2040m trip every chance that the babies in the field will go one-two-three , with All Too Hard and Pierro coming off a quinella in the Victoria Derby and Proisir winning three of his four career starts .  All Too Hard will attempt to upset Pierro twice in two weeks when they go head to head again in the Cox Plate.Source : Getty Images  WHERE 'S THE VALUE ?  Everywhere .  A hot field means one thing - juicy odds for horses with genuine claims for the Plate .  Race favourite Pierro has drifted a little since earlier in the week and is now at $4.40 , while Green Moon firmed from $5 to $4.80 before moving back out to $5  More Joyous has been the big fancy , coming in from big odds to be among the favourites with punters at $7 .  And if All Too Hard can tap into the form that delivered Pierro 's shock Caulfield Guineas defeat , he 'll make a a few punters who jump at his $10 odds happy .  A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING : We use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites .