Magical Witch Forest grows at Picnic Point
http://www.thechronicle.com.au/news/magical-witch-forest-grows-picnic-point/1650089/

popular stories  local real estate  subscribe now  toowoomba is abuzz with the imminent opening of the magical witch 's forest playground at picnic point , but every fairytale needs a hero .  while local princesses and brave knights will be queuing to live out the adventure when the park opens on friday , december 14 , they will have to wait until january to have a house of their own .  known as " old smithy " the second structure features a quaint tree-house feel complete with a precisely engineered slide for a fast exist when marauders approach .  the new " old smithy " playground is on its way to picnic point from the factory of german manufacturers spielart and will be ready in january .  " each piece of spielart equipment is hand carved and unique , it 's made of super tough robinia timber and designed to cope with all the punishment kids ( and the weather ) can throw at it , " said jeff wilson from playrope , the australian distributor of the german-designed playgrounds spielart is imagination brought to life , it 's designed to be fun , quirky , off beat and imaginative .  " and the kids ca n't resist it . in fact , i think most adults will be hoping they can play too !  " toowoomba regional council is leading the charge to create playgrounds that appeal to modern kids , get them off the couch and into the fresh air .  " they really should be applauded for their dedication to creating attractions that make playgrounds fun . "  magical witch forest grows at picnic point  the new spielart magical witch forest playground goes up at picnic point.chris calcino  11.06am : it 's quirky , bewitching and the first of its kind in australia , but most importantly it looks an absolute ton of fun .  a new set of play equipment is currently being installed at heller street park and it promises to be " something out of the box " .  environmental health , parks and recreation portfolio leader cr sue englart said with school holidays and the christmas near picnic point ) is sure to see some inquisitive visitors .  " the equipment is made by spielart , a company based in muhlgasse , germany , which has been producing adventure play since 1991 , " cr englart said .  it was sourced through playrope ( an australian playground company ) .  " these products are made of robinia , which is a hardwood - so they 're strong , secure and can certainly take anything the young ones want to throw at it .  " the equipment will be around for a long , long time so the children of today 's children will still be playing on it years to come . "  cr englart said every piece was unique as all playgrounds were hand made from natural timber .  " it can take up to 16 weeks to make one unit , so we certainly have a unique attraction to unveil just before christmas , " she said .  " we 're just putting the finishing touches to it and , weather permitting , should have it open on will have a great time . "  cr englart said the equipment was called " magical witch forest " and another installation " old smithy " was to be erected once it arrived in january .  " it 's very distinctive and we can all take great pride that this is the first playground of this type to go into any australian park , " cr englart said .