Independence important - but support critical
http://www.moneymanagement.com.au/news/financial-planning/independence-important-support-critical

Independence important - but support critical  With one-stop-shop and non-aligned dealer group Yellow Brick Road ( YBR ) recently announcing plans to recruit wealth professionals disenchanted with the institutional environment , the value and definition of independence is again in the spotlight .  In a statement , YBR said it was looking to hire professionals to work flexible hours , who want a " refreshing alternative to the institutional jobs offered by the major banks " and who want to " provide agnostic , independent financial advice to Australian consumers " - with independent in this case meaning " non-bank " rather than the regulator 's designation pertaining to remuneration models .  YBR chief executive Matt Lawler said the group is receiving a lot of enquiries from current bank employees involved in a restructure or in situations where their remuneration has changed , or they have been pigeonholed into selling products rather than giving advice .  Consumers are also drawn to strong brands but do n't necessarily have the same level of trust in big banks as with other brands , he added people who want to control their own destiny , where their hard work and effort is rewarded . Many financial professionals today have a great amount of experience but are questioning the traditional model of sitting at a desk from eight to five every day . "  Managing director of Securitor and Licensee Select at BT , Matt Englund , says the current mood within the group is " fantastic " as advisers emerge from a period of uncertainty .  This is backed by recent Wealth Insights research that shows adviser sentiment has improved significantly over the past six months .  " Our planners are so enthusiastic that they 're supported by and are partnered with a large institution - they love it . They see this period of change navigating Future of Financial Advice regulations as a great opportunity to partner with somebody with the resources to support them through the things that are going on , " he said .  " Independently minded business owners need to have the freedom to run their own businesses but they need to have the support from somebody with done . "  For planners running a small business under the Securitor licence , " ultimately it 's their asset , it 's their client base and their business , " Englund said .  " We do have very specific rules about quality of advice and we do have constructs around APLs ( approved product lists ) but our APL is quite broad - it 's not about product , it 's about the quality of advice and practice development and support to help run a profitable , saleable business , " he said .  The director of self-licensed practice Waterfall Way Associates , Dacian Moses , agreed the idea of having the support of a large licensee in navigating regulatory change was appealing , but also said clients considered independent advice important .  This is also evidenced by the institutions employing multiple brand strategies in an attempt to capture that market , he added .  " You ca n't have it both ways - you ca n't say that brand is ' standing behind you ' , then try and represent that you 're independent happy with the regulator 's definition of " independence " , even though the requirement to be purely fee for service and receive no volume bonuses meant many boutiques did not qualify .