Lesbian families' happy connection
http://www.northernstar.com.au/news/lesbian-families-happy-connection/1238429/

popular stories  local real estate  subscribe now  research published this month shows children raised in planned lesbian families are doing just fine .  the research is part of a breakthrough longitudinal study being conducted in the us which has followed children being raised by lesbians since the 1980s .  this research , along with other recently published papers , show that children from planned lesbian families are doing at least as well as , and sometimes better , than children from heterosexual families .  the research comes as no surprise to lismore mother , christine minkov , who with her partner , kate willock , is raising two children , daniel , 8 , and alice , 5 .  she said that in lesbian relationships pregnancies never happened by mistake and this meant the parents had time to think and plan for their children .  " i do n't think there is a one-size-fits-all way of being a parent , " ms minkov said .  however , successful parenting was about " love and commitment to the process sexuality , she said .  " kate and i are very aware that many people are critical of same sex couples having children and knowing this has made us more committed to building resilience in our children . we know they will be teased at some point in their lives so we try to prepare them for that , to stand strong , know they are loved , and be just what they are - beautiful children who have two mums . "  her children had already experienced negative comments made by other children , but had dealt with it well , she said .  ms minkov said that while there had been a shift in community attitudes toward gay and lesbian families , there was still much discrimination , particularly toward the non-biological mother .  the research , published in the journal of developmental and behavioural pediatrics this month , shows that children from lesbian homes have a quality of life which is equal to children from heterosexual homes .  another study on psychological adjustment conducted by the national longitudinal family study found children from academic areas .  all the studies can be downloaded from the national longitudinal lesbian family study website at http : //www.nllfs.org