Toyota Prius camper conversion unveiled at Tokyo Auto Salon
http://www.caradvice.com.au/155366/toyota-prius-camper-conversion-unveiled-at-toyko-auto-salon/

Toyota Prius camper conversion unveiled at Tokyo Auto Salon  Ever wanted to go camping but always thought campervans consumed too much fuel ? A camper conversion for the Toyota Prius could be your answer .  Looking a little like a giant telephone handle stuck onto the top of a Prius -- or even a Smurf if you owned a blue Prius -- the camper conversion was unveiled at the 2012 Tokyo Auto Salon in Japan over the weekend .  It 's a custom ( obviously ) creation developed by a camping specialist called Campinn . The company starts out by cutting rear sections of the Prius out and adapting a special fibre-reinforced plastic mould over the top .  The large mould conceals a door entrance at the rear , with its own roller blind , and two beds -- one of which sits on top of the roof , and another that takes place of where the rear seats and boot space used to be .  Campinn says there 's also an optional flip-out coffee table and sofa that can be added exterior comes with Prius taillights which have been grafted into the custom mould .  The large camper section adds 520mm to the Prius ' overall length ( 4460mm in standard form ) , and 560mm to the overall height ( 1490mm in standard form ) .  We 're not sure how much weight this conversion adds to the back of the rather sorry-looking Prius , but it would likely put additional loads onto the Prius 's hybrid powertrain .  SOCIAL SHARE  ugly as it can be ... home this conversion flies away at the speed of 30km/h  Johnny  Well that 's rather different .  Labryz  What . The . Hell . That thing is messed up.Although the comment about it looking like a smurf is vastly amusing and would be tempted to buy just for that reason .  3D4  I wonder how this house on the top of ( otherwise perfectly aerodynamic car ) affects the fuel consumption , performance and the drive generaly .. Must be " fun " ..  Sam  Looks like a mobile porta loo . greener , better  Chucky  Well , if I am retired and just want to travel around australia on a sealed and flat unsealed road . I do n't mind this . Just wonder if they have any option on larger fuel tank .  Tony  lol .... why ! ?  garl  i 'll have the camper part in black so i can call it elvis  Al  This looks hideous ! Although I can understand the appeal of a hybrid car for camping as you can leave the A/C or fan on all night running on battery with the engine turning on occasionally to keep the battery charged . You can also power small appliances/electrical items from the battery for reasonable time . But somehow I doubt this offers much more room than a Prius V wagon with its rear seats folded ...  Force-15  It 's eating the Prius !  lol  ahahhahahahahahha  Luke Brinsmead  Paint the car blue and it could be a smurf .  Dave S  It 's not a tumour ! !  Marky Mark  Looks like something the boys on topgear would slap together .  DeskDreaming  Slap a ' Sandman ' sticker on the back and you get a cult classic  Steve42  I like how the title of the article has Tokyo misspelt as " Toyko " ... stangely appropriate ... must be a freudian slip by the author  Sumpguard  I 'd still rather sleep under the stars and associated heavy hailstorms . I 'd rather be seen dead from a lightning strike than be seen dead in that !  Kj  Holy Fukushima that 's ugly ! Ladies and gentleman we have a new winner in the ugliest and silliest cars ever built competitions -- and it is about as aerodynamic as a block of flats ! I 'd rather a holiday in Afghanistan than go away in that thing !