Dodge safe in Australia for 2012
http://www.caradvice.com.au/155300/dodge-safe-in-australia-for-2012/

dodge safe in australia for 2012  the head of dodge australia says he expects the brand to continue operating throughout 2012 , but admits its future beyond that is less clear .  chrysler group australia ( cga ) managing director clyde campbell says the company is not currently considering dropping the dodge brand from its local line-up despite the fact the seven-seat journey will be the flying the flag on its own for much of the year . the compact nitro suv and the caliber hatchback have both been discontinued .  " we 're pretty confident that dodge is here for all of this year , " campbell says , although he admits it could be a different story in 12 months ' time . " we 're in a dynamic game , who knows what we 'll be saying this time next year . "  campbell says he is confident dodge will sell more than 2000 units of the recently updated journey in australia this year -- a result he says would make " financial sense " for the company . dodge journeys in 2011 .  " dodge works for us as a brand . there 's a lot of brands in this marketplace that would love to have a brand that sold 2000 units a year .  " so , we 're not looking to drop that ( dodge ) unless we can find something that was going to give us a lot bigger return for our money . dodge is a pretty important thing for us going forward . "  fiat-chrysler global boss sergio marchionne and jeep ceo mike manly told reporters at last week 's detroit motor show that a restructuring of his group 's brands in australia would take place within the next three months . the restructuring could see the distribution responsibilities of some or all of the fiat-chrysler brands currently distributed by ateco automotive ( abarth , alfa romeo and fiat ) and european automotive imports ( ferrari and maserati ) shift to cga .  cga has brand responsibility for all eight brands , as well as lancia ( not sold in australia ) , despite currently being operationally responsible for just three has been in regular discussion with ateco automotive owner neville crichton and managing director ric hull about ways to further the performance of the brands under their control .  " there have been discussions about whether it would be better under us , but at this stage there is no agreement to do anything concretely . "  campbell said the multiple distributor set-up was typical of a number of fiat-chrysler markets around the world .  " ateco are pretty good at what they do . they 've demonstrated that for a number of years with a number of different brands . "  regardless , campbell says he believes cga has the capacity to manage the distribution of all eight brands if that is the desire of marchionne and the overseas parent company .  " we think we do , " campbell says . " we currently manage three brands . we did n't have any chrysler availability last year , but with the two brands where we did have available product we think we did a reasonable job . we started moving in the right direction our way .  " if the powers that be want us to look in a different direction then we 'll follow that and see where it goes . "  campbell said cga had not done enough analysis to know what structure was in the company 's best interests yet , and insisted a changeover of distribution rights would only take place if it was mutually agreeable .  " you would n't do it just for the sake of doing it , you 'd have to do it because you saw benefits to both brands . if there 's not clearly benefits both ways then you do n't do it . you do n't take it to build power and end up averaging down two brands . you do it if it 's going to build both brands .  " at this stage i 'm trying to keep our team focused on the job that 's definitely in front of us , and that job really is about jeep and chrysler and dodge this year . we would n't want to take too much of a bite if social share  campbell is obviously sucking up to ateco by saying they 're good at what they do , they 're the opposite . ateco chopped and changed fiats range every 2 weeks , discontinued the ritmo and the punto just when sales started picking up . they never imported a semi-auto ritmo , despite availability in other rhd markets . they 've screwed with alfa for years and do n't market any of their brands .  fiat could potentially sell very well in australia as they do small cars very well . imo fiat should drop dodge from aus and focus on fiat itself . they should bring back the full 500 range ( not just a 1.4 sport model ) , the punto range , the ritmo and possibly introduce the linea , panda , the soon to be announced ellezero crossover and the freemont ( rebadged dodge journey ) . and sell them through current fiat dealerships plus dodge dealers without ateco .  tlaxcala  actually i think dodge 's full line up ( dart , upcoming avenger replacement , charger , challenger , journey than its voyager sibling ) has more potential in australia on the whole than fiat 's does , it would be a mistake to drop dodge from australia instead of expanding it , but no reason they also ca n't concerntrate on fiat as a niche brand .  al  that would work -- but if fiat then dropped chrysler and jeep from aus . the charger overlaps the 300c while durango and journey would overlap jeep 's products . the avenger replacement would also then overlap the chrysler 200 ( if released in aus ) . although a full dodge model line with predominantly large cars ( nothing smaller than the dart ) , plus a full fiat line up ( with small cars only ) would work well for aus as they would have pretty much every segment covered .  tlaxcala  some overlap will always occur when there are multiple brands on sale ( it even occurs within single brands ) , and the products are different enough that they wo n't cannablize each other 's sales . some consumers will like the 300 but not assume discontuning the 300 in the australian market would be of benefit to dodge and so on with the other similar models . also keep in mind some households shop between similar cars and get two of them . i 'd get a new challenger for me and a 300 for the wife if i could afford them . : p  pal  i agree , and in fact , if we got the full dodge lineup i have no doubt dodge would be the the top selling out of all fiat and chrysler brands even over jeep  showtime  dodge needs to bring the charger , challenger and dart here if they want continued success and brand awareness . i do n't know why they have n't done this yet .  tim  its their loss , they have no right to wonder why their sales are so low in australia ; they do n't bother selling their best vehicles here , they need to get their act together if chrysler corp . wants to be a global automaker  peanut  ditto , bring the charger fix .  airtrek02  i see no problem in fiat/alfa/abarth being sold under the chrysler group , in fact , i think it would be an excellent idea ! these three brands need a stronger company to import them and with the backing of fiat group this is certainly it . as well as a stronger backing they need new product and they need it now ! fiat needs the panda , the punto evo , the whole 500 range and the ritmo back ( and surely mazda will let them have bravo back as a name ) . alfa needs more of an engine/transmission range ( as well as a price drop ... ) and abarth needs the punto asap . dodge needs the dart desperately ( it 's based on the giulietta platform -- how is it not rhd convert-able ? ) but the charger would be a great addition ( it 's the car i always hoped they 'd release here and they still have n't ) as well as the durango . chrysler , well , all they need is the new 300c and that 's ( but keep the ypsilon ) . there 's light at the end of the tunnel , but it will take a lot of effort from them , that 's for sure . i wish them luck .  as for ateco being ' good at what they do ' i 'd say that 's so unbelievably false that it is n't funny . their car brands barely sell 2000 a year ( combined lol ) in australia and that 's chiefly because their pricing is absolutely sky high . citroen need to set up a proper distributor for australia because their product range needs a shuffle too .  would love to see both charger &amp; challenger sold in aus . especially charger . great addition to v8 supercars cotf series next year .  kensands79  active member 5 posts  sergio marchionne -- do nt drop the dodge brand in australia and replace it with fiat.i bought a dodge journey ( near new ) early last year which i purchased because it was american as i was bored with japanese cars . i wanted something different.the car is was badged as a fiat ( freemont ) -- there would be no way that i would have bought it.australian 's do not buy or like fiat cars ! ( they have long memories of past fiats ) the reason dodge has not sold very well over the last six years has a lot more to do with the poor marketing and promotion of the products than the cars themselves.give dodge another chance by promoting and pricing the products better and give us the new dodge dart.australians love jeeps , and would love well built and priced american made and branded product -- dodges and chryslers . as for ateco they derserve to lose the distribution of your bands as they have always been a hopeless at marketing your products . thank you .  mkstrat  i agree keep dodge and bring in the muscle cars , aussies love them and would be fresh air to the v8 super car series that 's getting boring . the marketing done with jeep recently has been great , it made me checkout the new grand cherokee and i ordered one . i really should not give up on dodge , bring in what people want and it will pay off ! !  simmog  instead of selling the ' boxes ' on wheels why not the challenger range for the rhd markets , i am sure nz and uk would go for it as well . the suv market is saturated and they try and tap into it , yet the ' retro ' real yankee muscle car market is untapped . stop listening to the marketing guys and find out what the buyers want . us mid life crisis guys who are past kids at home and soccer at the weekends do n't need a grocery grabber or ' some shopping trolley kind of thing ' would love a classic style car with modern technology . the us car manufacturers are in crisis -- well sell us the cars we want .  jojo  bring the charger and durango to australia . drove both in the states and were great . wake up chrysler we all do n't want a jeep or 300c !