Six lessons from Australia's richest self-managed super funds
http://www.smartcompany.com.au/finance/superannuation/25834-six-lessons-from-australia-s-richest-self-managed-super-funds.html

six lessons from australia 's richest self-managed super funds  monday , 14 may 2012 14:00  michael laurence  share  the latest federal budget has focused attention on australia 's best-paid super fund members -- an estimated 128,000 individuals who earn more than $300,000 a year from their employment , businesses and non-super investments .  under a controversial budget measure -- which could cost as much to administer as the extra tax it will collect -- the salary-sacrificed , compulsory and personally deductible contributions of these high-earning members will be taxed at 30% from july . this is twice the contributions tax being applied to other fund members .  the government 's strike against wealthy super fund members raises fascinating questions for all astute fund members ; no matter their income and super balances . just who are these high-earning fund members ? how do they invest their super money ? can i learn anything from them ?  it is a safe assumption that most of these members earning $300,000-plus would have their own self-managed super fund ( smsf ) . and are high because most wealthy people would ensure that they , along with their families , take as much advantage as possible of concessionally-taxed super .  a few of australia 's biggest smsfs have more than $40 million each in assets -- an asset value that will never again be replicated by self-managed funds given the annual caps on super contributions . and there are many smsfs with balances of $6 million to $20 million .  as highlighted in a recent ato publication , self-managed superannuation funds -- a statistical overview 2009-10 , rich smsfs have plenty to teach trustees of smsfs with vastly smaller assets . in short , smsfs with huge balances have , on average , much higher performance once costs and taxes are taken into account .  however , this out-performance does n't appear to be associated with doing anything extraordinary with investments -- the asset allocation of rich fund portfolios is surprisingly similar to an average-sized fund . the out-performance would largely be attributable to their low costs relative to asset size and their assumed willingness to take quality professional advice .  about 6,000 funds ) have assets of $5 million to $10 million , while just 0.2% of smsfs ( less than 1,000 funds ) have more than $10 million in assets . by contrast , smsfs have average assets of $870,000 .  here are six strategies pursued by the trustees of australia 's richest six that are worth considering :  1 . cut costs  the ability to shave costs is the great advantage of high-asset smsfs . funds with upwards of $10 million had average costs in 2009-10 of only 0.25% of assets . this compares with costs of 0.67% for smsfs with $500,000 to $1 million , and a breathtakingly high 7% for smsfs with up to $50,000 in assets .  the message for all smsfs is that costs really matter . and if your fund 's costs seem comparatively high to an average-sized fund , find out why . keep a close watch on funds management and fund administration fees . and ensure that your fund is not unnecessarily triggering capital gains tax and transaction costs through excessive trading .  the reality is that . rich smsfs are able to spread their fixed costs over much more valuable portfolios .  2 . question performance  smsfs with $10 million-plus returned an average 8.9% in 2009-10 against a return of 6.87% by smsfs with $500,000 to $1 million , and a negative average return of 8.64% by funds with $50,000 or less .  if your smsf is underperforming , question whether it should be revamped with professional help or whether your money is better served in a big public-offer super fund . the ability of wealthy smsfs to minimise their costs really lifts their net returns .  3 . boost family contributions  the trustees of rich smsfs would typically ensure that their family members -- including spouses with no employment income and their children of any age -- contribute as much as possible into the concessionally-taxed super system .  anyone under 65 can contribute to super , even minors who are not in the workforce . and anyone age 65-69 can contribute if doing at least some paid work .  however , fund members under 18 are not entitled to or business income .  despite the $25,000 concessional contributions cap applying to all fund members from july , it is still possible to put large amounts into super .  even from 2012-13 , fund members will be able to contribute $25,000 a year in concessional contributions plus $150,000 in non-concessional contributions . this means that a four-person fund ( the maximum membership for an smsf ) could receive contributions of up to $700,000 in contributions a year with each member contributing up to their individual caps .  4 . watch for the dangers of owning only one type of asset  smsf tax and regulatory returns show that rich funds are much less likely than small smsfs to fall into a potential trap of having most of their assets in a single investment or investment asset class such as shares , cash or property .  for instance , 38% of smsfs with $50,000 or less in assets have all of their money in a single asset class compared with 2% of funds with more than $10 million in assets . and just 5% of funds with $1 a single asset class .  the logic of not putting everything into one asset or type of asset is simple : a fund with a diversified portfolio diversifies its risks and opportunities .  5 . think twice before putting all of your investments in super  as last week 's federal budget illustrates , governments are too willing to turn to super in an attempt to raise extra taxes .  well-informed trustees of smsfs would understand the case for holding both super and non-super investments to reduce the risk of government interference .  some investors may be surprised at how much can be earned outside super in a tax-effective way .  in 2012-13 , an individual investor can earn fully franked dividends of about $100,000 from shares held outside super without having to pay any additional tax -- once franking credits are claimed . ( this assumes the taxpayer has no other taxable income . )  a $2 million share portfolio paying a 5% dividend yield is necessary to produce a $100,000 income .  6 . consider tax-savings strategies outside super  as confirmed members can make to super from next financial year is $25,000 a year without exceeding their contribution cap . this is likely to encourage more super fund members to pursue tax-savings strategies outside super .  these strategies include the negative-gearing of shares and property where appropriate from an investment perspective as well as income-splitting by holding assets in the name of low-earning spouses and in family trusts . such strategies have long been favoured by trustees of rich smsfs for their non-super money .  but , never forget , gearing multiplies potential losses as well as gains .  inside innovation : how 6 smes shook up business  brought to you by  direct links  topics  our partners  smartcompany.com.au is australia 's leading website for smes featuring business news , business information and business blogs . smartcompany 's archive of news , feature articles , entrepreneur interviews and business webinars cover topics such as advertising and marketing , buying or selling a business , starting a business , growing a business , franchising , seo , superannuation and tax .