Make Your Own Cocoa Powder
http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2012/05/make-your-own-cocoa-powder/

make your own cocoa powder  if you love chocolate milk or stirring a little bit of chocolate flavour into your coffee , there 's no reason to buy an overpriced box of desiccated powder . you can make your own cocoa mix at home , ready for mixing , with higher quality cocoa . here 's how .  we 've mentioned how to make cocoa mix in the past , but that recipe was more complicated and is now subscription-only . the blog sugar bananas notes that cocoa mix only really has three ingredients : cocoa or powdered chocolate , sugar and a little salt . depending on your budget and palate , you can spring for higher-quality cocoa powder to get a richer , deeper chocolate flavour .  if you 're feeling experimental , you can amp it up with a pinch of cayenne pepper . do you make your own cocoa powder ? any additions to the recipe to offer ? share your tips in the comments below .  tags  discuss  we found a commercial brand that we really make our own using the nutritional panel and ingredients listing for clues on the proportions . cocoa solids legally have to be listed as a percentage in the ingredients - so cocoa quantity is easy , sugars listed in the nutritional panel are going to be 99% sugar , so that 's how much icing sugar we add . we add 2% chilli powder and 1% cinnamon and you 're most of the way there ! commercial mixes use a thickener ( some sort of modified starch ) which i believe helps to form a sticky layer on your tongue and therefore make the flavour linger in your mouth and give it a creamyness .  trending stories right now  if you have a teenage son or daughter , you 're more than a decade into the same routine . take them to the doctor , do all the paperwork , answer the doctor 's questions , and ask your own . but as your kid grows up , they need to learn to take over those jobs . it 's time to get out of your rut .  its search box , if you 're searching from a phone . just type in " bubble level " and you can get a box that uses your phone 's accelerometer to determine if something 's level or not .