Good Foreigners Doing Good And Bad Foreigners Doing EVIL
http://www.kotaku.com.au/2012/05/good-foreigners-doing-good-and-bad-foreigners-doing-evil/

good foreigners doing good and bad foreigners doing evil  it was a touching scene . a young american male sat outside of a mcdonalds in nanjing , sharing a meal with a homeless lady . he had purchased two orders of french fries and poured water into her water bottle .  a passerby snapped photos and uploaded them onto a chinese social working site . online , people praised the young man -- whose name is jason loose -- and gave him the nickname " brother fries " . this was n't the only recent act of laowai ( foreign ) kindness : earlier this month , a brazilian man got beat up as he attempted to stop a robbery .  and just as the chinese internet dubbed both heroes , a 25 year-old british man was caught allegedly molesting multiple women and raping one . an altercation broke out and the 25-year was beaten senseless . online , forums erupted with some stating how awful foreigners were .  in much of asia , many people 's interaction with foreigners is somewhat limited met foreigners in bars . but simple maths says that the vast majority of the population will not have any sort of meaningful interaction , such as being neighbours , work colleagues or even friends .  this is n't due to racism in countries like , say , china , south korea , or japan . like i said , it 's simple math : the number of foreigners is comparatively smaller , so not everyone has the opportunity to pursue a deeper interaction . thus , much of people 's perception of foreigners is based entirely on things they read online or popular culture they absorb . this is n't unique to asia . this is , however , also why foreigners ( in japan , at least ) are often peppered with possibly irksome questions and comments . people have a perception , which informs the things they ask and the things they think .  after i grabbed his neck and saw he 's a laowai , i felt more obligated to save the girl . "  the recent footage of 25 year-old british man , everything awful imaginable . besides the footage of the inebriated man appearing to rape a woman near beijing 's xuanwumen station ( footage that has been analyzed as if it were blow-up ) , social networking sites photos of that same individual . it 's difficult to make out what 's going on in the pictures , but the uploader claimed a bald foreigner was thrusting his erection towards women . the photos were the british man earlier that evening , before the incident that was captured on video .  in the video ( viewable here , viewer discrention recommended ) , the woman said she does not know the man . her underwear was exposed . the man who first appeared in the video was a 24 year-old security guard from a nearby building . " after i grabbed his neck and saw he 's a laowai , i felt more obligated to save the girl , " he told the global times . does that mean he 'd be less obligated if the accused rapist was chinese ?  " pictures showing a foreigner helping a chinese might  the beatdown the british man was filmed and uploaded online with the title : " laowai , we 're going to kick your arse out of china " . the man , who speaks no chinese and who is on a tourist visa , is currently in police custody . chinese legal experts think he 'll serve about two weeks in detention and then be deported .  the whole incident clashed with the foreigners-sure-are-nice attitude that the media played up , and it 'll serve to reinforce any unsavory stereotypes people in china have . many people , no doubt , are able to make the distinction between the individual and the group , but not everyone .  what 's more , making divisions , such as foreign or native , can not be helped . this is a foreign man in china . that is no mistake . however , these same distinctions cause people to lose sight of the individual . instead of thinking that a foreign sharing his food with a homeless lady means all foreigners are nice , it 's more accurate to note the same holds true for the british man . what 's lost in this is the big sweeping brushstrokes that the word " foreigner " leaves out . even if it 's being used in a neutral context , it separates " us " and " them " . this is underscored in loose 's reaction to his generosity .  " i shall never gain such wide attention in the u.s. by doing so , " loose wrote online about his french fry sharing . " one reason could be i am not a ' laowai ' ( foreigner ) at home . another is this kind of thing is quite common in america . "  but this goes even further . li yonggang , a professor who teaches internet phenomenon at nanjing university , told the global times , " pictures showing a foreigner helping a chinese might help raise public awareness about doing good deeds . " by that logic , video of a foreigner doing awful things might help public awareness about doing evil deeds . but the sticking point is whether these individuals are behaving is good or bad -- or because they are in another country and behaving in a manner that they never would at home -- whether that 's doing good deals or truly deplorable ones .  culture smash is a daily dose of things topical , interesting and sometimes even awesome -- game related and beyond .  tags  discuss  reminder sort of famous pokemon website admin water pokemon master got uh warned by jap police after he posted images from what he described as 1 of thee worst movies ever , only for first unofficial pic of patrat , which was seen by a jap who was a member for 2chan , for which it was a bit uneasy , during which he posted a rant , rest is history  i think part of the reason groups get such broad praise/blame for things like these is just because the news offers very little information about those involved .  even in this article , all we get is age , gender , and nationality . there 's nothing to distinguish a " 25-year-old british man " from there 's not really a way around it other than telling the person 's life story basically , to differentiate them from others in general . i suppose they could just make it more colourful : " asshole involved in sexual assault " . at least then people could unite with " all assholes are criminals , we need to get rid of all the assholes ! "  ah , that would be journalism 101 - perpetrators of sexual crimes are not named/described in any way that could lead to their being identified , as it is necessary to protect their victim . anybody who releases identifying info , and thus jeopardises the victim 's anonymity , is breaking the law . i imagine it is the same in most countries .  my thoughts exactly .... why people find time to complain that a story holds no interest to them is beyond me . i you are n't interested , move on and do n't read it , do n't wast your time complaining that it is n't about video games .... the world is full of things that it is of no interest to anyone .