Stakeholders Insist on Independent Courier Regulatory Body in ...
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/stakeholders-insist-on-independent-courier-regulatory-body-in-nigeria/198629/

stakeholders insist on independent courier regulatory body in nigeria  in spite of several delays that were traced to the federal government regarding the establishment of an independent courier regulatory body in nigeria , industry stakeholders have urged the government to revisit the issue , ten years after .  they advised the federal government to , as a matter of urgency , expedite the processes that will lead to the establishment of an independent courier regulator , given its importance in national development .  the stakeholders under the aegis of the association of nigerian courier operators ( annco ) , who spoke through their president , mr. siyanbola oladapo , told thisday that the country is loosing a great deal in terms of revenue and national development , owing to her inability to establish an independent courier regulatory body .  although oladapo admitted there is an existing courier regulatory department ( crd ) of the nigerian postal service ( nipost ) , he maintained that not much would be achieved , since nipost is operating as a regulator and a courier operator at the hindrance to the current situation where nipost is playing a dual role .  citing the revolution currently going on in the telecommunications sector as an example , oladapo linked the achievements in the telecoms sector to its independent regulatory body , the nigerian communications commission ( ncc ) .  according to him : " unless there is an independent courier regulatory body like that of the ncc in the telecoms sector , the courier industry will continue to lose so much in the areas of revenue generation for the country and national development such as infrastructure building . "  he also cited ghana and niger republic as some of the african countries that have independent courier regulatory bodies , and questioned why nigeria should continue to allow her courier industry to suffer in the hands of nipost , which also operates the ems speedpost , a courier company .  citing other benefits of having an independent courier regulatory body , oladapo said it would help create more jobs , and increase the country 's gross domestic products ( gdp ) .  he said annco would continue bureau of public enterprises ( bpe ) , as well as nipost , to ensure speedy processing of the issues that would lead to the establishment of an independent courier operator in nigeria .  head of crd , dr. simon emeje , also told thisday that there was need for an independent courier regulatory body for the country . according to emeje : " independent regulators like the ncc and the central bank of nigeria ( cbn ) are doing well because they are backed by law and they operate within the scope of the power of the laws that set them up , and they are doing well because of the law backing them . crd is a courier regulator , but it is operating under limited powers because there are no statutory law backing it up . " he further explained that the situation with the current regulator and the courier industry would be better off , should government establish an independent courier regulator .  he said it is not in the best interest of nipost to operate as a regulator and operator , but assured stakeholders  please leave your comment below . your name will appear next to your comment . we 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .