Senate condoles with the Itsekiri on Olu of Warri
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2015/10/senate-condoles-with-the-itsekiri-on-olu-of-warri/

THE Senate , yesterday , visited Warri , Delta State to condole with the Itsekiri over the passage of the Olu of Warri , HRM Ogiame Atuwatse II .  Sen. Kabiru Gaya , who spoke on behalf of the lawmakers at the Olu palace , hailed the departed Atuwatse II as a " great hero " , pointing out that his subjects , Delta State and Nigeria at large benefitted from his wealth of experience .  Gaya said , " The Senate decided to condole with the Itsekiri nation and to deliver a letter of condolence on behalf of the Senate President , Bukola Saraki , to the Regent and people of Warri Kingdom over the departure of the Olu . "  He noted that there is nothing the Senate and the Itsekiri could have done to prevent the death of the revered monarch than to respect the will of God when He has spoken .  The Senator prayed God to give the royal family and the Itsekiri the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss .  The Regent of Warri Kingdom , , said the Itsekiri were happy in mourning over the departed monarch because of the fulfilled life he lived .  Emiko told the lawmakers , " Our hearts are heavy looking at you with the depth of solidarity shown and the confidence it raises for us " , pointing out that preparation for the burial rites of the late Olu were ongoing .  Earlier , yesterday , Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State played host to the Senate delegation in Asaba , the state capital , during which challenged members of the National Assembly to revive the nation 's economy .  Okowa said the National Assembly has experienced Nigerians who can proffer solutions to the economic crisis facing the country .  He thanked the Senate for commiserating with the state government , its people and the Itsekiri on the demise of the Olu of Warri .  Meanwhile , to give the late Atuwatse II a befitting funeral , the Warri Kingdom Traditional Council has proposed the construction of a 2,000- capacity hall .  Chief Rita Lori-Ogbebor , the Igba of Warri , presented the proposal Warri yesterday with Itsekiri Professionals .  Lori-Ogbebor said the project is cost intensive , calling on all sons and daughters of the Itsekiri to join hands to give the departed monarch a befitting burial .  Participants of diverse professional backgrounds agreed to work with the proposal for the befitting hall at Ode-Itsekiri .  The Itsekiri Professionals also agreed to have representatives in the Central Working Committee in realization of the project .