Taraba Tribunal Reserves Judgment on Governorship Election
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/taraba-tribunal-reserves-judgment-on-governorship-election/222226/

taraba tribunal reserves judgment on governorship election  the taraba state governorship election tribunal sitting at the appeal court headquarters in abuja has reserved judgment indefinitely following the adoption of final written addresses by counsel in the petition .  the all progressives congress ( apc ) and its governorship candidate , hajiya aisha jumai alhassan ( 1st respondent ) , are challenging the victory of governor darius ishaku ( 2nd respondent ) in the april 11 election in the state as was declared by the independent national electoral commission ( inec ) .  at the resumed hearing on wednesday , the counsel adopted their final written addresses , with the counsel to the petitioners , mr. abiodun owonikoko ( san ) , urging the tribunal to return the 1st petitioner , alhassan , as the elected governor of the state .  however , counsel to the 1st , 2nd and 3rd respondents in the unanimous submissions prayed the court to dismiss the petition , describing it as lacking in merit .  in his closing argument , the counsel to the peoples democratic party said : " my prayer is that the petition be dismissed because the petitioners have not proved their case . "  afterwards , the tribunal chairman , justice musa danladi abubakar , ruled that the judgment be reserved when a date would be communicated to the parties in the petition .  recall that the justice abubaka-led tribunal had on august 21 admitted 10 apc party agents as witnesses on oath who were presented by the lead counsel to the petitioners , mahmud magaji ( san ) .  however , the witnesses were examined by the counsel to alhassan , while the counsel to ishaku , kanu agabi ( san ) ; counsel to pdp , solo akuma ( san ) , and counsel to inec , abayomi akanmode , cross examined both of them .  please leave your comment below . your name will appear next to your comment . we 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .