Gazi makes the cut
http://archive.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=258740

odi squad announced  gazi makes the cut  sports reporter  off-spinner shohag gazi , who has impressed in the ongoing test series between bangladesh and west indies , has been rewarded with a berth in bangladesh 's 14-man squad for the first two one day internationals , which was announced yesterday .  gazi has picked up eleven wickets in the series so far and has been mushfiqur rahim 's go-to bowler .  apart from gazi , rubel hossain and naeem islam are the other two players who have returned to the side after missing out during the asia cup , which took place in march this year .  rubel , who returned from a shoulder injury , impressed the selectors with his effort in the test series . naeem 's inclusion in the squad was propelled by his maiden test century in the second innings of the first test match .  young abul hasan , who became only the fourth person in the history of test cricket to score a century while batting at number ten , was also named in into the asia cup squad in march , following shafiul islam 's injury . he , however , did n't make it to the playing eleven .  imrul kayes , elias sunny , nazmul hossain , shahadat hossain and nazimuddin , who were a part of the odi squad during the asia cup were dropped by the selectors .  " nazmul hossain is injured and is n't fit enough to be in the team . nazimuddin has n't been performing well lately and he did n't get too many runs during the asia cup , " said akram khan , chief selector of the bangladesh cricket team . the selection committee also backed their quickest bowlers for the odis-abul and rubel- as a result of which , shahadat hossain had to miss out .  kayes 's exclusion was mainly due to his lean form with the bat in domestic cricket , where as the inclusion of gazi , alongside shakib al hasan and abdur razzak , meant that there was no room for sunny in the team .  bangladesh and west indies will each play one warm-up two odis will take place in the sheikh abu naser stadium in khulna on november 30 and december 2 respectively . the players will then return to dhaka to play the remaining three odis and one twenty20.