Off the beaten track
http://archive.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=258675

off the beaten track  in conversation with anisur rahman milon  shah alam shazu  anisur rahman milon , a popular face on television , has recently signed the contract for a new film , although this is not his first appearance on the big screen . the busy actor recently had a conversation with the daily star , on his works and other subjects .  tell us about the tv serial " nirbikar manush " .  milon : the story of this drama is a little offbeat . i play the role of an indifferent man , and the story revolves around my character . i worked on it under the direction of masud mohiuddin , and it is one of my favorite works in recent times .  which other tv series are you appearing in right now ?  milon : the tv series " agontuk " is being aired on btv , while atn bangla is airing " chhayabrita " , directed by tauquir ahmed and shot in the usa . a few other tv dramas are also being aired new film . tell us about that .  milon : the film is called " porra mon " , and will be directed by zakir hossain raju . my character is of a brave , outspoken police officer . i agreed to do the film because i liked all its aspects : the script , character and the director .  you 've also completed shooting for another film ?  milon : i 've just finished shooting for " dehorokkhi " directed by iftekhar chowdhury . the story is out of the ordinary and i believe people would be interested to go watch it in theatres . i 'm usually more drawn to stories that are not very common .  how often do you shoot ?  milon : at least 25 days a month . if i want , i can shoot every day , but i am selective about my work , and do only those roles where there 's scope for me to put in something extra . the other five days are for my own rest and to give time to my family . your portfolio to directors ?  milon : after animesh aich 's " hat-kura " , directors became more assured that they want to work with me . naresh bhuiyan 's " doyita " also helped boost my career , as my viewers rediscovered me , while directors also took notice , and i did not have to look back .  you 've been acknowledged for your work , too .  milon : i have been awarded for a number of my works . i received the uro-cjfb award for " romizer aaina " , rtv-cjfb award for " doyita " and the meril-prothom alo award for " modhu moira " . but i believe the biggest award is the love of my viewers .  what are your aspirations , regarding films ?  milon : i have so much to do in films . i want to work in anti-hero roles , who will be central to the stories , and people will remember me for my work .  since when have you been involved with theatre ?  milon : i am currently involved with like to think of myself as someone from the theatre fraternity , and there was a time when i had no interest in television , and wanted to spend my life on stage .