Mojaheed involved in mass killing
http://archive.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=258309

mojaheed involved in mass killing  prosecution witness from faridpur testifies at war crimes tribunal  jamaat-e-islami leader ali ahsan mohammad mojaheed was involved in the mass killing committed in four hindu-dominated villages in faridpur during the liberation war .  sixth prosecution witness abdul malek mia said this during his testimony in the crimes against humanity case against mojaheed before the international crimes tribunal-2 yesterday .  he said pakistani army men along with armed razakars , some biharis ( non bangla speaking people ) , one hammad moulana and mojaheed went to the villages in the middle part of the bangla month jaistha during the war .  " these people were involved in looting , arson and killings committed in these villages , " said the 75-year-old former politician from faridpur .  malek said he visited the villages on the following day of the incident and heard about mojaheed and others from survivors and victims .  on june 21 , the tribunal indicted the jamaat secretary general from faridpur with seven charges of crimes against humanity committed during the liberation war . kabir with members justice obaidul hassan and judge m shahinur islam , recorded malek 's testimony as well as his cross-examination before adjourning the case proceeding until november 27 .  during his 34-minute testimony , malek said he was the president of awami league dikrirchar union unit and was living in kajem matabbar village of faridpur in 1971 .  the pakistani army was angry at the hindu community and awami league leaders and activists and killed them , said malek .  on april 21 , 1971 , pakistan army went to faridpur and set up their camps at police line , stadium and faridpur rajendra college , said the witness adding , " along with razakars an anti-liberation force and biharis , they committed looting and other atrocities . "  on a jaistha morning , malek 's wife informed him that the pakistani army was approaching towards their village and malek hid himself in a ditch beside his home , said the witness .  " our village was muslim-dominated . they attackers did n't do any harm to our village , " said malek , adding baladangi and majhidangi , set houses ablaze there and killed people shooting indiscriminately . "  the atrocities were too much for him to take , said malek , adding that the following day aftab uddin , a muslim league leader and the then chairman of their union , whilst going past their home asked malek to go to the affected villages with him .  " i went with him and visited the areas . all houses of the villages were burnt down ... bodies were lying here and there , " said malek .  when they reached the villages some 50-60 people came out of hiding .  the chairman ordered the people to bury the bodies and they followed his order , said malek , adding , " there were approximately 30-40 bodies there . "  then malek came to know from the locals that the pakistani army along with armed razakars , some biharis , one hammad moulana and mojaheed had gone to the villages from faridpur and these people were involved in the atrocities , said the witness .