Major jobs announcement on the horizon
http://www.clarechampion.ie/major-jobs-announcement-imminent/

major jobs announcement on the horizon  clare is expected to get its most significant jobs boost for a number of years within the next 12 weeks .  while there is some uncertainty about the exact number of jobs that are to be created , it 's believed that it will be in excess of 500 , possibly even in the region of 700 .  the company in question is a multinational based in shannon and it is understood they have won a significant amount of new business and need new workers .  this week , some informed sources said they expect the jobs will be announced within the first quarter of the year . it is understood that there are likely to be a mix of highly skilled and unskilled positions created . the company that is set to create the jobs has been based in shannon for a number of years . they already employ several hundred staff and have increased headcount in recent times , while management have previously said that ireland is a very suitable base for their business . during the boom , the increased competitiveness of post-crash ireland is undoubtedly something that will appeal to them .  as a multinational company , which has bases around the world and which sells its products in many countries , the air links at shannon are another important factor .  shannon has long had one of the biggest clusters of multinational investment in ireland and , while there has been some recovery since the downturn first struck , this would be by some distance the most important jobs announcement there since the celtic tiger era .  while the town 's industrial base declined significantly during the recession , there were some positive signs in 2014 , with a number of smaller jobs announcements .  just last month , long-established element six announced they would be taking on another 40 staff at the shannon plant , with scope for further growth due to a ? 25 million investment and the relocation of ? 20m worth of assets .  despite some level of economic recovery , the most recent figures showed there were in excess of 8,000 people on than 500 new jobs would obviously be a very significant boost . as well as the obvious benefit to the new workers , their increased spending could provide a welcome shot in the arm for domestic businesses around the mid-west.