Gorey boys go down fighting
http://www.wexfordpeople.ie/sport/gaa/gorey-boys-go-down-fighting-31036237.html

the north wexford school gave as good as they got for long spells and , to an extent , recovered from eleven first-half wides that left them in a hole at the break , trailing by 2-4 to 0-7 despite playing with the breeze .  indeed , after a brace of aodh ? n doyle goals in the 35th minute , gorey took the lead ( 2-7 to 2-5 ) . however , the six or seven points that were left out there in that first period by rory mccarthy 's men could not be reclaimed and their laois opponents were never as profligate - registering 1-13 with the elements after the interval .  mountrath picked up the first two points but gorey responded through darragh hughes and gary molloy . eight times the eventual losers missed the target before their next score through hughes in the 20th minute , and in that period their opponents had registered a jake cranny penalty to lead by 1-3 to 0-2 .  blocked shots from hughes and james lynch led to a pair of ' 65s from more damage three minutes before the break when aaron dunphy found the net after hesitancy in the defence .  late points from aodh ? n doyle and hughes narrowed the gap to three at the change-around and , after john lennon pointed , gorey got even closer when doyle latched onto cathal dunbar 's pass and flashed a shot past shane cuddy ( 2-5 to 1-7 ) .  when doyle rose above the defence to flick yusef frih 's long , hopeful ball to the net , gorey had a real foothold and a two-point lead . however , mountrath came roaring back and had pulled level before conor hiney 's audacious jab from dylan lalor 's long ball hit jack cushe 's net .  mountrath moved five points clear through stephen dunphy and lalor but a resilient gorey hit back again when theo doyle 's ball broke off aodh ? n doyle into the path of eoin corcoran and the full-forward pulled from close range to the net .  just when it seemed like it would be gorey who kicked on , mountrath responded and put in which they scored five points without reply in under six minutes ( 3-14 to 3-7 ) .  gorey managed just two further points as they went looking for the majors they needed to get back into the game . those goals did n't come and mountrath were worthy winners in the end , even if eight points was a little harsh on the wexford boys .