Data breach at Anthem highlights need for ID security
http://www.irishtimes.com/business/technology/data-breach-at-anthem-highlights-need-for-id-security-1.2124411

by using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . for more information on cookies see our cookie policy .  data breach at anthem highlights need for id security  80 million consumers at risk as fraud levels rise  tue , mar 3 , 2015 , 15:23updated : tue , mar 3 , 2015 , 15:41  the data breach at anthem put about 80 million consumers at risk of id theft , states are seeing a spike in fraudsters using stolen identities to file for income tax refund checks and new hacks seem to be discovered every week .  anyone who is n't in a high state of alert about safeguarding his or her identity is either in massive denial or is a fatalist .  the data breach at anthem put about 80 million consumers at risk of id theft , states are seeing a spike in fraudsters using stolen identities to file for income tax refund checks and new hacks seem to be discovered every week .  that 's made id theft protection a booming industry , help with , and profit from , the anxiety . handr block is the latest player to get into the business .  in january , it launched " tax identity shield , " which , for $29.95 a year , does an annual , pretax season scan for your name on websites suspected of selling personal information , sends an e- mail if your information is on another tax return filed through handr block , and gives basic help navigating red tape .  transunion also unveiled a new product in january , a mobile app that , among other things , lets users paying $17.95 a month freeze and unfreeze their credit report with a swipe of their finger .  existing products are going strong : the largest niche player , lifelock , saw 40 per cent of all new members in 2014 join in the year 's final quarter.while details of all the protection products vary greatly , most charge from $10 to $30 a month .  for that , services include credit monitoring , fraud resolution , and increasingly , insurance for out-of-pocket costs or for plans to offer up to $1 million in coverage . and it 's that insurance angle that comes in for the most criticism by consumer experts .  for one thing , the coverage typically kicks in only for losses not covered by one 's financial institution or by other policies , such as homeowner 's insurance . " it 's a hollow promise , " says gary frank , chief executive of lcg , a national provider of employer-sponsored legal benefits . " they 're claiming to provide coverage for things that are already being provided by the consumer financial institutions . "  identity fraud statistics just out from javelin research and strategy put the need for insurance in perspective . there are two primary categories of fraud : existing account fraud , such as when someone gets access to your credit card , and new account fraud , which uses your information to open new accounts .  existing account fraud is by far the most prevalent , accounting for $14 billion of the $16 billion in total fraud losses last year , according to javelin . , however , was just $63 , and many victims will pay nothing . " that 's not to say there are n't going to be people who suffer significant losses , " says al pascual , director of fraud and security at javelin . " but even for those outliers , that kind of coverage is merely a peace-of-mind product . most people are not going to need $1 million in coverage . "  for most consumers , a bigger concern is the hassle and time it takes to resolve issues arising from id theft . new account fraud , though far less common , can be much more costly and time consuming . the mean consumer cost in 2014 was $398 , and the mean resolution time was 25 hours .  here 's where companies that offer insurance as part of a plan say there 's value . experian 's protectmyid plan , for example , provides up to $1,500 a week , for a maximum of five weeks , for lost wages during time spent rectifying records after id theft .  it will also cover recovering one 's identity , as well as documentation , travel , and other expenses . there are also provisions for legal and private investigation costs .  lifelock says it has negotiated with insurance companies " to cover payments for lost wages , bail bonds and other ancillary fees related to cases , " among other things . consumers willing and able to do the legwork themselves have access to free or inexpensive resources for monitoring and resolving credit fraud . but no single product or measure acts as a deadbolt lock against thieves , says paul stephens , director of policy and advocacy at the nonprofit privacy rights clearinghouse .  credit monitoring tells you only if new accounts are being opened in your name , so it wo n't help you if thieves have your credit and debit card numbers and go on a shopping spree . in that case , the best defence is being vigilant about checking your accounts .  though less common , the hijacking of your social security number can be much more damaging , since thieves can use it to open new id fraud .  some protection plans monitor your social security number and alert you if someone applies for credit in your name . most simply monitor your credit report , though , which means it can be more than a month before you are alerted about a new account , says pascual .  as an alternative , lcg 's frank recommends placing credit alerts with equifax , experian , and transunion . it 's free , lasts 90 days , and requires creditors to take extra precautions before issuing new credit under your name .