Fighters battle Houthis in Yemen's southern city of Aden
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/world/middle-east/fighters-battle-houthis-in-yemen-s-southern-city-of-aden-1.2230884

by using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . for more information on cookies see our cookie policy .  fighters battle houthis in yemen 's southern city of aden  un-sponsored peace talks set for geneva postponed because of ongoing conflict  fri , may 29 , 2015 , 15:04updated : fri , may 29 , 2015 , 15:05  anti-houthi fighters of the southern popular resistance fire from a tank in yemen 's southern port city of aden on friday . photograph : reuters .  heavy fighting erupted in southern yemen near aden airport on friday when a sunni muslim militia attacked shi'ite houthi rebels in a push to drive houthis from the district .  saudi-led forces also made four air strikes on a military base near the airport , a source in the southern militia said .  a saudi-led coalition began air strikes in yemen on march 26 in a campaign to restore yemeni president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to power . he fled in march , after iranian-backed houthi rebels seized the capital sanaa in september and is yemen 's commercial hub . its airport has been closed since fighting began but its port provides sporadic access for desperately needed humanitarian aid to enter the country .  houthis and forces loyal to former president ali abdullah saleh are concentrated around aden 's districts of khor maksar , crater and moalla .  the fighting in khor maksar has killed four southern militia fighters and 15 houthis so far , a militia source said .  intense air raids by the arab alliance were also reported overnight by residents of saada province , which borders saudi arabia in northwestern yemen . raids also targeted a weapons storage site in sanaa , said residents .  on monday , houthi fighters suffered their first significant setback in the south in two months of civil war when local sunni militia ejected them from much of the southern city of dalea , about 170 km north of aden .  the sunni militias , who call themselves the southern resistance , are a loosely allied group of fighters who took up arms against the houthis .  un-sponsored peace talks set because of the heavy fighting .