Nintendo showcases Star Fox Zero and co-operative Legend of ...
http://www.irishexaminer.com/technow/games/nintendo-showcases-star-fox-zero-and-co-operative-legend-of-zelda-at-e3-337450.html

nintendo took to e3 with an array of games , though some fans may be disappointed that they left a new legend of zelda title at home .  nintendo console owners wo n't be short of games to look forward to over the next year or so . nintendo brought an array of games to e3 , including six new titles . unfortunately , the zelda game that everyone is looking forward to was n't shown after being recently delayed until some time in 2016 .  one of the new announcements was the legend of zelda : triforce heroes , a three player co-operative title that will be released on the 3ds . it sees players teaming up solve puzzle dungeons and defeat enemies . the legend of zelda : triforce heroes will be released this autumn .  while we knew of the existence of a new star fox game , nintendo finally revealed it and gave it an official title . star fox zero features multiple vehicles including the iconic r-wing , and even a drone that drops small controllable robots . and star fox zero will be released holiday 2015 .  if the nintendo world championships got you excited about building your own super mario levels , keep an eye out for super mario maker . the title will be released on september 11th and will let you build and play your own levels . it will curtail how evil you can be ; before you can upload a level for others to try , you must be able to complete it yourself .  in what was a surprise to many , nintendo announced that its characters are coming to activision 's skylanders . new amiibo are coming to skylanders for wii u. among them are a new " magma " version of bowser and a donkey kong . they 'll still function as normal amiibo , but can also be brought into superchargers over nfc .  footage from yoshi 's woolly world was probably one of the highlights of nintendo 's showcase . the platformer was announced last year , but it 's great to see some more footage from it . the game will be out in october .  nintendo did warn its fans about titles that it would n't be bringing to e3 in the run-up to the conference . but it has n't stopped some from feeling a little disappointed . e3 tends not to be a focus for nintendo , so keep an eye out for nintendo direct presentations in the coming months . and hopefully the legend of zelda will make a proper appearance in the near future .