Leinster drawn in group of death with Toulon, Bath and Wasps
http://www.irishtimes.com/sport/rugby/european-cup/leinster-drawn-in-group-of-death-with-toulon-bath-and-wasps-1.2252927

Munster to play Top 14 champions Stade Fran ? ais while Ulster get Saracens and Toulose  Leinster 's worst nightmare was realised in Neuchatel this afternoon after they were assigned to pool five where they will face three-time and defending champions , Toulon , previous title holders Bath , whom they beat in last season 's quarter-final and two-time European winners , Wasps , whom they faced twice at the pool stage last season , in next season 's Champions Cup .  Munster find themselves alongside French champions Stade Francais , perennial foes , Leicester Tigers and Italian side Benetton Treviso in pool three while Ulster must clamber past Aviva Premiership winners , Saracens , Toulouse and another French club in tournament debutants , Oyonnax .  In the European Challenge Cup Connacht will face French club , Brive , English side , the Newcastle Falcons and a trip to Siberia where they will take on Enisei-STM .  Second Captains  Leinster though have been handed the most difficult task of the three Irish provinces in the Champions Cup . While Munster and Ulster the fourth tier in the draw , Treviso and newcomers Oyonnax , Leinster watched as Wasps , a side that they narrowly beat ( RDS ) and drew with ( Ricoh Arena ) , were placed in pool five .  It also means a quick return for Jimmy Gopperth to the RDS , albeit in Wasps colours this time .  As a major aside it also means that while Munster avoided a quick return for Paul O'Connell , Leinster will have to get to grips with the Ireland captain , when he arrives in the Toulon colours . Bath under Mike Ford have been a joy to watch and one suspects will only get better again , having taken on board the experience of losing the Premiership final .  Toulon who have won the last three European Cups beat Leinster in last year 's semi-final in Marseille . Given the quality of the teams it would seem nigh on impossible to see two teams emerging from pool five , making it look like a winner-take-all scenario .  Munster will be reasonably happy despite catching the French champions tends to outshine marquee names like Sergio Parisse and Morne Steyn .  The Tigers will have a new coach Aaron Mauger in situ next season and while they were unlucky with injuries in the campaign just gone , they are not the force in English or European rugby of bygone days . Treviso can be a sticky prospect at home but they too have slipped standard wise and will be viewed as a potential 10-pointer for the rest of the teams .  When Ulster players have nightmares it 's probably Saracens that dominate them , having beaten the Irish province in successive quarterfinals in 2013 and 2014 , the latter on foot of a controversial sending off for Jared Payne . Mark McCall takes the English champions back into Europe hoping to go one better than last year 's semifinal .  Toulouse will be under a new coaching baton as Guy Noves moves to take over France following the upcoming World Cup while newcomers Oyonnax are set for an interesting debut season .  Leinster club captain Jamie Heaslip said that like most of the players he was As much as you look forward to the off-season , it is n't long before you start looking towards critical dates and I suppose from a Leinster point of view that first date was today and the draw for the Champions Cup , " said the Irish number eight .  " In many ways it is hard to even visualise the Champions Cup and the pool games as November is so far away . I very much stay in the moment and focus on the next game or the next challenge and I suppose there is so much rugby to be played between now and then . But we are due back for pre-season two weeks today and the thoughts of Toulon , Bath and Wasps will focus the minds on the work ahead for all of the lads and the schedule that Leo ( Cullen ) and Dan ( Tobin ) have set out for us .  " Obviously there will be the hype around Paulie and his return to these shores to take on an Irish team but leaving Paul ( O'Connell ) aside , Toulon are .  " To come up against another two of last seasons ' opponents is unique I suppose but in the same way as with Castres last season , you have to take each game on its merits . Bath finished out the year very well and on another day could have been in Tier 1 as Premiership winners , while Wasps were the leading try scorers in the Premiership . We 'll also be coming up against Jimmy ( Gopperth ) and Brendan ( Macken ) so that 's another tie where there will be plenty of interest .  " Last season was a huge stepping stone for this group of players reaching the Semi-Final and pushing Toulon as close as we did . But that is no consolation . You ultimately want to reach the biggest stage and hopefully after reaching a Quarter and a Semi the last two years we can go one better . "  Heaslip feels the squad will be re-energised by the return of former players Johnny Sexton and Isa Nacewa .  " The nucleus of this team is very young , , Jordi Murphy and Jack McGrath were all competing in European Semis for the first time . That is brilliant experience for those lads . We have also lost some big characters but with Johnny ( Sexton ) and Isa ( Nacewa ) coming back , and other lads coming in , and the experience we have gained over the last few seasons , we 'd be hopeful of giving a good account of ourselves again next season . "  We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community , including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication .