Service planned to mark 30th anniversary of Air India bombing
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/ireland/irish-news/service-planned-to-mark-30th-anniversary-of-air-india-bombing-1.2253324

service planned to mark 30th anniversary of air india bombing  poet ren ? e sarojini saklikar who lost relatives in cork disaster will attend event  a victim of the air india bombing which killed 329 people on june 23rd , 1985 , is removed from cork airport on a stretcher .  a leading canadian poet who lost her aunt and uncle in the air india bombing will gather with other victims ' relatives in west cork next week for the 30th anniversary of the bombing .  ren ? e sarojini saklikar was 23 years old when her aunt and uncle were among the 329 people murdered when a bomb exploded on air india flight 182 on june 23rd , 1985 .  the flight was en route from toronto to london when the bomb planted by sikh militants exploded some 100 miles off the west cork coast killing everyone on board .  the tragedy is remembered with a memorial at ahakista on the sheep 's head peninsula in west cork -- one of the nearest land points to where the bombing took india families and local cork families , officials , and schoolchildren to attend the 30th anniversary memorial service at ahakista next tuesday .  collection of poems  on the eve of the memorial service , ms saklikar will read from her collection of poems about the tragedy at the recently opened west cork arts centre in uillinn , skibbereen .  and she will also give a short talk entitled history , grief , remembrance , on the interconnections between the people of cork and canada in the aftermath of the bombing .  " my family will never forget the compassionate care given to us by the people of cork , in the days just after the bombing , " said ms saklikar .  " people like the search and recovery crews as well as nurses and doctors and many local people , reached out with kindness and incredible support and continue to do so till sic this day . "  ms saklikar visited the memorial at ahakista last year and revealed how meeting with locals helped her appreciate how the tragedy is perceived in ireland . india incident within the context of the greater irish narrative as well as to hear from folks with connections to the bombing and its recovery operation in cork . "  adaptation  ms saklikar 's poetry about the air india bombing will be adapted for music and voice later this year in an irish-canadian production supported by culture ireland .  ms saklikar , who won the 2014 canadian authors association award for poetry , will see her poems set to music by irish composer j ? rgen simpson in a project directed by tom creed .  of the 329 passengers and crew who perished , some 82 were children under the age of 13 while 280 of the dead were canadians , 27 were british citizens and 22 were indians .