Liam Collins: Clerys survived the Rising and Great Depression of ...
http://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/liam-collins-clerys-survived-the-rising-and-great-depression-of-1940-but-it-failed-to-move-with-time-31317527.html

denis guiney snatched it from the jaws of death but his ethos of giving shoppers a bargain died when he did , writes liam collins  liam collins  shopping mecca : clerys pictured in 1924 , two years after it reopened after the risingshopping mecca : the original clerys drawings of 1898shopping mecca : denis guiney who bought the clerys store for ? 230,000  although it was incorporated in 1898 as ' clery &amp; company ltd - general drapers , house furnishers and booksellers ' , the modern history of the iconic o'connell street department store can be traced to the dying months of 1940 , when the lights were going out all over europe .  the wealthy managing director and main shareholder of what was even then a venerable old dublin department store , sir christopher william nixon of roebuck house , milltown , the son of a prominent dublin doctor , was in serious financial trouble . in 1938 , with war looming and wages rising , he had borrowed the princely sum of ? 200,000 from the equity law assurance company on the loan .  in october 1940 , the company went into voluntary liquidation with eustace shott of craig gardiner &amp; co appointed as receiver .  it was a situation that appears to mirror what has been going on with the company in the last 10 days .  his preferred bidder , the cork ' merchant prince ' william dwyer , could n't come up with the money and on november 10 , shott approached denis guiney , who had taken a sleepy drapery in talbot street and , in a few years , turned it into a business with a turnover of over ? 1m .  when the parties met two days later , guiney offered ? 222,000 for the lot - the building had already been valued at ? 98,000 . from brosna in co kerry , guiney had worked in retail all his life and could see the massive potential that could be unlocked in clerys .  his only proviso regarding the deal was that it had to be completed immediately . the receiver persuaded him to throw another ? 7,500 into the .  sir christopher nixon was outraged at the price and he and the board of the company went to the high court to try to stop the sale .  in a celebrated judgment finding in favour of the receiver 's decision to sell to guiney , mr justice george gavan duffy declared that " mr guiney 's methods were unorthodox and direct - he consulted no valuer or brought in no accountants , yet he knew the causes of its ( clerys ' ) distress and believed he could cure them . this self confidence and the absence of express advice might seem reprehensible to the more cautious operators who follow the beaten track , but he was risking his own money and not the money of his critics . "  clerys reopened on november 29 , 1940 and guiney was immediately on the road to success , clearing ? 54,000 worth of stock in the first week . according to his biographer , peter costello , denis guiney " rose from working in small country shops " to running the biggest business in dublin . he transformed of a new kind of ireland ... many talked about the ' new ireland ' , denis guiney helped create it . "  his company ' clery &amp; co ( 1941 ) ltd , wholesale &amp; retail drapers ' had a rateable valuation of ? 4,750 by 1947 , making it by far the most valuable building in the country for many years .  guiney was a marketing genius before the term was invented . he refunded the rail fares of customers who spent more than ? 5 , he ran excursion trains from all over ireland and he targeted his advertising at the big farmers and the new professional classes from outside the capital .  he ran tea dances in the department store to entice the middle classes who descended on the new suburbs to the north and south of dublin after the war .  while arnotts of henry street had always been a dublin store , and mentioned by sean o'casey in the plough and the stars , clerys was where the country folk shopped . they were loyal , thrifty and guiney believed in most innovative retailer in the country until the arrival of ben ' better value beats them all ' dunne snr .  when guiney died in 1967 , he was succeeded by his wife , mary , who lived in a mansion called auburn on the howth road in dublin and lived to the age of 103 . months before she died , she presented a celebrated cartoon by warner of the various legal eagles involved in her husband 's acquisition of clerys back in 1940 to a retiring member of the judiciary .  but possibly she stayed too long . clerys , which survived the 1916 rising and the receivership of 1940 , was now facing a bigger calamity than both of these tumultuous events - the changing tastes of the irish people .  during mrs guiney 's later years , it fell to arthur walls , a well-known dublin accountant whose wife , pearl , was a niece of the guineys , to run the store . the shareholders were a diverse group of relatives who mostly acquired their shareholdings through inheritance and were neither directly involved losses .  although it turned over ? 70m in 2009 , the directors ' report of that year , signed by denis ryan and pj timmons , not only graphically told the story of clerys ' shocking fall from grace , but perfectly captured ireland on the cusp of financial collapse .  " ireland has suffered a stunning reversal of fortune in the past year as the domestic property crash and the global credit crunch plunged the economy into a severe recession , " it declared . what more needed to be said ?  with the shareholders unable to bear the losses , the company was , after more than 70 years in business , sold to the us private equity firm gordon brothers , who paid ? 15m and absorbed a ? 26m debt with bank of ireland .  but they too failed to stem the tide of public apathy towards what had once been ireland 's most famous department store and , in many ways , a national landmark for country and city folk who met ' under clerys clock ' ( or ucc ) took over the dublin drapery warehouse in sackville street from messrs mcsweeney &amp; delaney in 1893 , he did n't immediately change its name . but five years later , when he incorporated the business , he could hardly have foreseen that his name would grace the most impressive storefront in ireland for well over a century .  but it did , even if it had to move out of o'connell street for six years after all but the facade of the building was reduced to rubble by the gunboat helga , which bombarded the street from the river liffey in 1916 .  in various guises the business went on to survive the economic collapse of 1940 , and the catastrophic floods in 2013 that closed it for six months . last week , in what appears to be the final chapter in clerys ' long and colourful history , the company once more went into receivership and overnight was acquired by a company called natrium , a joint venture between dublin-based d2 private and cheyne capital management in the uk , with funding from us-based quadrant rea . will be done with this dinosaur of the golden era of city centre shopping remains to be seen . but clerys as we know it has gone forever .