Doug Howlett Previews Rugby World Cup 2015
http://sportsnewsireland.com/rugby/rugby_irish/doug-howlett-previews-rugby-world-cup-2015/

Doug Howlett Previews Rugby World Cup 2015  Former New Zealand and Munster wing Doug Howlett says that this year 's Rugby World Cup is wide open , with Ireland having as good a chance as anybody of claiming the Webb Ellis Cup .  But the 62 times capped All-Black feels that his home country has the potential to retain their crown . Their 39-18 victory over Argentina in The Rugby Championship at the weekend points to the fact that Steve Hansen is keen to gather momentum moving towards September .  " Signs are good , however it 's early days , " he said .  " When you step into a World Cup everything 's really up for grabs and I think that history has proven that form going into the World Cup does n't count for a lot .  " I was part of teams that went in on top of the world and tripped up in quarter-finals and semi-finals . "  Hansen has decided to leave behind Dan Carter and Sonny Bill Williams for the second game of the depth of his pool of players . This an area that Howlett feels New Zealand have an advantage in .  " Leaving Dan and Sonny Billl behind , it shows a lot trust in the players their taking . Beauden Barrett , Ma'a Nonu and Conrad Smith are obviously still there .  " It 's about building a group towards the World Cup and there 's no better Test match cauldron than Ellis Park , playing against a South African team that 's just been beaten in Australia . There 'll be a lot of questions asked but it 's great to ask them now leading to what 's coming up . "  Howlett feels this is just part of the plan of having their key players in peak condition heading to England in 8 weeks time , especially for Carter who has had his injury issues .  " The questions have only been asked ( about Carter ) through injuries . He 's had a stutter of games but I think the last game he has shown his ability and he 's proven , he 's " I have no doubt he 'll be firing for the World Cup and as you approach the end of your career you want to go out on a high so I certainly back Dan Carter to retain that position as number one number 10 for the All-Blacks .  " At the same time the competition is great . That 's what driving him to be a better player . "  New Zealand 's all-time try scorer said he feels Ireland are entering the World Cup in the perfect fashion . Ireland do n't have great World Cup pedigree but this is something the 2008 Heineken Cup feels lifts some pressure that may have been placed on them after two Six Nations victories in-a-row .  " My experience in Ireland says that , that suits them . They like being written-off , they like being the underdogs , they like coming from behind . People are certainly aware of what they have to offer now and they 've proven that through the Six Nations . "  He did stress that Ireland may not have the strength in the duration of the tournament .  " The concern for me will be whether their front-line 15 make it through the tournament . Key players across certain positions , obviously Jonny Sexton , Conor ( Murray ) , Sean O'Brien , Cian Healy , Paul ( O'Connell ) , these sorts of guys need to be playing in the big games so that 'll have a big effect on how far they go . "  Howlett , who now operates as a corporate ambassador for Munster , said the team is preparing well in pre-season . He does expect it to be challenge next term though as for the first time in nearly 15 years , they will be without their spiritual leader , Paul O'Connell .  " It 's something we 're going to have to get over , the decision 's made and sure it is a big loss but these things happen and it 's an opportunity for somebody else . Donnacha Ryan , Dave Foley , Billy Holland , these types of guys that have big boots to fill but they 've got to loss of O'Connell , he insists the mood of the Munster camp going forward is positive .  " In terms of how preparations are going at the moment its pre-season and everybody 's in good form . Spirits are good so we 'll see how we get on .  " It is a tough time but you bond with your team mates . You sit down and talk about what you 're going to do this year and with the hard work you try back that up so it 's a tough time of the season but it can be enjoyable . "  About Us  SportsNewsIreland is an Irish website launched in 2009 to offer sports fans in Ireland an alternative and independent source to keep them up to date with all the news from around the country . Every week we bring you live score updates from all levels of GAA , rugby , soccer , racing and athletics . Contact Email : **26;454;TOOLONG  Twitter Feed  Twitter feed loading ...  Categories  Pages  Sports News Ireland does not endorse the views or to the Sports News Ireland Online Community and interactive services subject to the following terms and conditions . These conditions apply to any content contributed in any format to any platforms hosted or facilitated by Sports News Ireland .