Japanese-style multi-storey bicycle parking planned for Dublin
http://www.herald.ie/news/japanesestyle-multistorey-bicycle-parking-planned-for-dublin-31392133.html

Japanese-style multi-storey bicycle parking planned for Dublin  Japanese-style multi-storey bicycle parking will come into effect in Dublin within the next four years , a senior Dublin City Council engineer has said .  Dublin City Council is formulating plans for secure multi-storey bicycle parking which will both tackle bicycle crime and increase the number of spaces for bicycle parking .  Underground bicycle parking in Japan . Photo : Getty  Underground bicycle parking in Japan . Photo : Getty  Underground bicycle parking in Japan . Photo : Getty  Multi-storey bicycle parking in Japan .  Michael Phillips , Dublin City Council 's Director of Traffic and City Engineer said : " One of the issues with theft is we 're afraid we 'll lose the cyclists if it continues . "  " In Japan , there are dedicated multi-storey parks where you get a ticket and a machine takes the bike and parks it . "  " We would minimise the price of it . But if you want to secure your bicycle , then I 'm sure you would n't .  " It 'll be three or four years yet before the Japanese style parking happens . In the meantime , we 'll be trying to use existing car parks and use those spaces in the city . That will come on stream sooner . We 'll have negotiations with car park owners about it . "  " The price of land is at a premium but we 're trying to see can we use multi-storey car parks a bit better to actually provide safe places for bicycle parking because bike theft is a huge issue . "  Over the last 10 years , bike theft has increased by 227 per cent . Around 6,750 bicycles were reported stolen last year .  For the first time in Dublin city , a coordinated multi-agency think tank is working to tackle bike theft .  Dublin Cycling Campaign , gardai , Dublin City Council , the National Transport Authority , and trade websites , are exchanging ideas on how to reduce bicycle crime .  David Timoney from Dublin Cycling Campaign said : " You need a multi-agency group angles to it . "  " First of all , a small change would make a difference , if we could record the details of every bicycle frame number , that would make a big difference - if we could encourage bike shops and websites to register the details of owners . "  " Also , over half the bikes stolen are from cyclists who are using chain locks and poor cable locks . ' Soldsecure ' is a lock standard system set up by police in the UK -- and they recommend that everyone should have a gold standard lock . "  " If people stopped using cable locks it would make a huge difference . "  The Dublin Cycling Campaign estimates that at least 20,000 bikes were stolen last year , and it is currently conducting a survey to try and uncover the correct figure .  " One of the problems is we do n't actually know how many bikes are stolen in Dublin each year . We estimate that it 's a multiple of the official figure but we just do n't know figure , " Mr Timoney said .  He added : " Dublin is full for cars now , we ca n't have more cars in the city if we 're to avoid gridlock , and planners understand that Dublin is full for cars so a few initiatives need to be brought in . "  " There 's a big problem with underground parking in apartment buildings for bicycles . There are ' wheel racks ' where you ca n't lock your bicycle frame to the rack , so the thieves just undo the wheel and walk out with the bike . "  Last month , gardai announced that they are using ' bait bikes ' fitted with GPS tracker devices in Dublin city centre to target bicycle thieves . The tracker devices will hopefully mean that the bike can be found and the thief identified and arrested .  In Dun Laoghaire , gardai took inspiration from London 's Met police and fixed " information bikes " ( renovated old bicycles which display information on how to safely lock your bike ) to public bicycle racks .  a reduction of 25pc in bike theft in Dun Laoghaire Rathdown as a result of the info bike , " said Sergeant Kelvin Courtney from Garda Community Relations .  " The idea behind it is that you 're demotivating the offender . "  Only 10pc of bike owners are able to provide An Garda S ? och ? na with the bicycle frame number , he said .  " We 're trying to get people to record their bicycle serial numbers as much as possible . We have hundreds of bicycles that we ca n't give back to the owner because they do n't have the serial number recorded , " Sergeant Kelvin said .  " If we can get the number of people filling in the BIKE ( Bicycle Information Key Essentials ) , and leave it in their wallet or email it to themselves , or take a photo of it on their phone , that would help . "  The facts :  In 2014  34pc of all thefts were reported in Dublin City Centre ,  40pc in the rest of Dublin Metropolitan Region .  Twice as many bikes are stolen during the summer months , peaking in July , August and September .  Two Thirds of bikes are stolen from public places  The most likely time is weekday afternoons  One third are stolen from residential locations , houses , sheds , gardens etc ...  The most likely time is overnight  Recommended steps to take to educe the impact of bike theft , as given by garda ? .