Roma 2-2 Man City (4-5 on pens): Raheem Sterling makes dream ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/sport/soccer/match-reports/roma-2-2-man-city-6108502

Vilified , demonised and taunted after his ? 49 million move from Liverpool to The Etihad Stadium the 21-year-old England striker made an instant impact with a wonderful start to his City career , writes Steve Bates in Melbourne .  And after a 2-2 stalemate at full time , Manuel Pellegrini 's stars eventually won an entertaining penalty shoot-out 5-4 to tee up Friday 's clash with Real Madrid .  All eyes were on Sterling - and he did n't disappoint collecting a second minute through ball by Kelechi Iheanacho before slotting a cool finish past Roma keeper Morgan de Sanctis .  Getty  Congratulations : Sterling takes the plaudits  It was the sweetest moment for Sterling who moments earlier had been taunted by Roma fans inside the Melbourne Cricket Ground after stumbling while trying to outwit full back Alessandro Florenzi .  He silenced them instantly -- and may have to do the same back home when Premier League action returns next month .  And that was n't the only good news for City fans who hope Manuel Pellegrini 's stars  Sterling , replaced at half time by the City boss , looked sharp and lively up front despite a disrupted pre-season due to his acrimonious move from Anfield .  Quinn Rooney  Fly by : Somehow the official missed this stonewall penalty  And he showed promising signs he could develop a dangerous partnership with City 's creator-in-chief David Silva .  Sterling 's opener was quickly cancelled out by Miralem Pjanic who equalised with a 25 yard screamer which flew into the top corner giving Willy Caballero no chance .  New boy Sterling should have had a stonewall penalty when he was taken out by Florenzi but somehow the officials missed it .  There were plenty of positives for Pellegrini with young striker Kelechi Iheanacho an impressive performer .  Reuters  Impressive : Iheanacho celebrates his goal  And after Pellegrini made wholesale half time changes , the Nigerian scored a tasty 51st minute goal to put City 2-1 ahead after a mistake by former Chelsea star Ashley Cole .  Marcos Lopes and Yaya Toure were denied as City pressed for more goals but Adem Ljajic free kick to send the match to a shoot-out .  But Hart redeemed his error scoring himself then making crucial saves from Doumbia and Keita to hand City a win .