A pensioner's sight has been restored after he received an amazing ...
http://www.irishexaminer.com/examviral/real-life/a-pensioners-sight-has-been-restored-after-he-received-an-amazing-bionic-eye-343812.html

a pensioner 's sight has been restored after he received an amazing ' bionic eye '  tuesday , july 21 , 2015  a manchester united fan has got his sight back for the first time in 10 years after receiving a state-of-the-art " bionic eye " and ca n't wait for the new premier league season .  ray flynn , 80 , from audenshaw , manchester , has amd -- advanced dry age related macular degeneration -- and is the first patient with amd in the world to undergo such a procedure .  the retired engineer is also believed to be the first human being to benefit from natural and artificial sight at the same time .  losing his sight affected the quality of his life as it deteriorated -- as a keen cook he was forced to read recipes with a magnifying glass but now he can cast the instrument aside .  ( peter byrne/pa )  he said : " before when i was looking at a plant in the garden it was like a honeycomb in the centre can now walk round the garden and see things .  " it 's definitely improved my vision but i have n't been out and about on a bus yet . i do n't think i will for a little while . "  amd is the most common cause of sight loss in the developed world with between 20 and 25 million sufferers worldwide .  the pensioner received an argus ii retinal implant at manchester royal eye hospital last month . more than 130 patients have received a bionic eye but ray is the first person with peripheral vision to receive one .  ( peter byrne/pa )  how does it work ?  developed by second sight medical products , it works by converting video images captured by a miniature camera housed in the patient 's glasses into a series of small electrical pulses that are transmitted wirelessly to electrodes on the surface of the retina .  these pulses stimulate the retina 's remaining cells resulting in the corresponding perception of patterns of light in the brain .  the patient then learns to interpret these hey ?  what is ray looking forward to ?  ( peter byrne/pa )  ray is looking forward to watching the new premier league season with his brother pete , 77 .  pete said : " we do n't miss a game on the television but he ca n't make out the players on the pitch and he can only watch if he sits in a certain position and looks from the corner of his eye .  " it gets very tiring for him so watching the first game of the season should be a new experience .  " he is also into his cooking and is a fan of delia smith . he does a lot of it by instinct but using a magnifying glass to follow a recipe takes him a long time and he tries very hard with that . "  what do the bionic eye scientists have to say ?  ( peter byrne/pa )  professor paulo stanga , consultant ophthalmologist and vitreoretinal surgeon at the manchester royal eye hospital , said : " mr flynn 's progress is truly objects very effectively .  " ray had to do everything with his peripheral vision , it 's very tiring , it is exhausting , what we are hoping to achieve is to improve ray 's central vision so he does not have to work so hard with his peripheral vision .  " this is new information that ray 's brain is receiving and his brain now needs to get use to interpreting it .  " he has not given up on losing his central vision . he is a motivated patient and that is crucial . "  he added : " as far as i am concerned , the first results of the trial are a total success and i look forward to treating more dry amd patients with the argus ii as part of this trial . we are currently recruiting four more patients to the trial in manchester .  " on behalf of the manchester royal eye hospital , we feel privileged to be conducting the world 's first study into retinal implants for patients with amd . this technology is revolutionary and changes them to live more independently . "