Man sentenced to life for 'brutal' murder of uncle
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/crime-and-law/courts/criminal-court/man-sentenced-to-life-for-brutal-murder-of-uncle-1.2300858

By using this website , you consent to our use of cookies . For more information on cookies see our Cookie Policy .  Man sentenced to life for ' brutal ' murder of uncle  David Cully ( 24 ) had admitted killing Edward O'Connor but denied murdering him  Wed , Jul 29 , 2015 , 13:36Updated : Wed , Jul 29 , 2015 , 19:46  David Cully ( 24 ) had admitted killing Edward O'Connor has been sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his uncle Edward O'Connor .  A Dublin man has been sentenced to life imprisonment for what was described today as the " brutal murder " of his uncle in 2013 .  Father-of-one David Cully ( 24 ) had admitted killing Edward O'Connor but denied murdering him . The Central Criminal Court heard the 41-year-old died of two gunshot wounds to his back .  The jury of seven women and five men spent more than eight hours over three days deliberating before returning a unanimous verdict of guilty of murder .  Cully of Kilshane Road uncle , but guilty to his manslaughter at Ballycoolin Road , Finglas West on December 15th , 2013 .  The 24-year-old claimed he shot Mr O'Connor " in the heat of the moment " after he commented about somebody who had made an allegation of sexual abuse against the deceased .  The allegation was investigated , but the Director of Public Prosecutions decided not to prosecute , the Central Criminal Court heard .  The trial heard both men had attended an organised " straightener " between two other men on the day of the killing and that Cully shot his uncle in the back after the fight .  Cully told garda ? that his uncle had made a comment that had caused him to lose control .  Both the deceased and the accused attended the fight in an open yard on the Sunday afternoon and Cully brought a gun .  Cully told garda ? that after the fight , Mr O'Connor had made a remark about the person who had made the allegation against him . The accused said he " just lost it "  " I do n't know why I did it or what came over to me , I just fired the gun at him , " he said in interview . " Well I do know , " he continued , explaining that he " just had hatred towards him " since the allegation was made .  He said his uncle had riled him up by making a comment about the complainant of the alleged sexual abuse .  Pauline Walley SC , prosecuting , said that the jury verdict was unanimous .  " Mr Cully was convicted by unanimous verdict for the murder of Edward O'Connor . It is the case that Mr Cully had alleged he was provoked by the deceased . That claim was rejected by the jury and he was convicted , " she said .  Ms Walley read a victim impact statement written by the wife of the deceased to the court .  " My name is Charlotte O ' Connor , wife of Eddie O'Connor , who was brutally murdered , " she said .  " I make this statement had their father taken from them in such a horrific manner . Eddie was cruelly taken from us , " she said .  Ms O'Connor said that the horror will remain with her for the rest of her life .  " I am 42 years of age and Eddie has been part of my life since I was 14 . We were childhood sweethearts -- we did everything together , " she said .  " Eddie was a hard worker and a real family man . He always made time for his three children . He was proud of the three of them . They idolised their father , " she added .  " It is hard to look at them try to get on with lives -- there will be a massive void . Upcoming birthdays , graduations and weddings will be tainted , " she said .  " Eddie has been snatched from us by a horrible crime . Eddie came from a large family of six brothers and one sister . He worked in the family business . His brothers have been saddened she continued .  Ms O ' Connor said that following allegations made against Eddie , that he never had a moment 's peace .  " It broke Eddie 's heart , " she said .  " I think about Eddie every minute of every day . I ask myself why me and my family have this cross to bear for the remainder of our lives -- the brutal circumstances in which Eddie was taken away from us , " she said .  " Eddie 's plan was to retire at 50 and move to a holiday home . I miss everything we did together , " she said .  " We had so much more to do together in life -- the anger will live with me forever , " she added .  Ms O'Connor thanked garda ? for their support , thanking in particular the three garda ? who came to the scene as the deceased lay dying , giving him CPR .  " Nothing will bring Eddie back to us . I no longer feel I have something to live for . no woman should have to carry . We love you Eddie , " she concluded .