Man United will make a late move for Harry Kane and all of today's ...
http://www.the42.ie/harry-kane-manchester-united-2262764-Aug2015/

Man United will make a late move for Harry Kane and all of today 's transfer gossip  Time is running out but there 's still plenty of deals to be done .  Kane started for Tottenham at Old Trafford but was unable to prevent the visitors suffering a 1-0 defeat . Source : David Zalubowski  Van Gaal wants Kane:Man United have renewed their interest in Tottenham striker Harry Kane with manager Louis van Gaal making fresh enquiries about the English international 's availability .  Gunners in for Silva : After yesterday 's defeat to West Ham , Arsene Wenger wants to strengthen his squad and Real Madrid 's Lucas Silva is top of his wishlist . The Brazilian only arrived in Madrid in January but the Spanish club are prepared to sell .  Sickener for Pedro : Man United 's move for Pedro could be scuppered because of a bad bout of the mumps . Brazilian forward Neymar will miss the start of the season through illness and Barcelona may want to keep Pedro for the time being .  Pulis ' with Saido Berahino to stay at the Hawthorns amid continued speculation over his future . The England international is wanted by Tottenham .  Everton prepare for Stones exit : Chelsea are preparing a third bid of ? 30 million for John Stones with Everton searching for replacements . The Toffees have already rejected the champions ' advances but are now resigned to losing the young defender .  De Bruyne to City ? It looks increasingly likely that Kevin de Bruyne will return to the Premier League and sign for Manchester City . Reports suggest the Belgian midfielder is on the verge of a ? 50 million move from Wolfsburg .  Hammers want Chicharito : Slaven Billic is determined to bring Javier Hernandez to Upton Park and will ask the club 's hierarchy to up their bid to ? 12 million for the Mexican striker .  Loyal to the troops : After suffering defeat on their Premier League debut , Bournemouth boss Eddie Howe insists he will stay loyal to the players that earned the club promotion .  QPR open to Austin sale : In demand striker if QPR receive the right offer . Newcastle and Tottenham are interested in Austin but the R 's want ? 15 million up front .  TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.