5 Council projects shortlisted for Chambers Ireland Awards
http://clareherald.com/2015/09/5-council-projects-shortlisted-for-chambers-ireland-awards-5675/

5 council projects shortlisted for chambers ireland awards  team limerick clean up and a giant 's journey are among five limerick city and county council initiatives shortlisted in the 2015 chambers ireland excellence in local government awards scheme .  the chambers ireland excellence in local government awards are held annually in association with the department of the environment , community and local government . first held in 2004 , the awards acknowledge and encourage best practice and constructive initiatives by local authorities and are also aimed at enhancing the positive relationships that already exist between chambers , businesses and their respective local authorities .  limerick city and county council was named overall local authority of the year in 2014 . this year , five council initiatives have been shortlisted in separate categories .  team limerick clean up ( tlc ) , which was sponsored by the jp mcmanus benevolent fund , has been shortlisted in the ' supporting active communities ' category . the initiative saw more than 10,000 take to the streets of limerick city and county in april to participate in  the public participation network ( ppn ) , which replaced the former city and county community and voluntary forums earlier this year , has been shortlisted in the ' best practice in citizen engagement ' category . the forum 's role is to enhance and expand the role played by the public in the formulation of local government policy and the future development of local communities across limerick .  innovate limerick , which was established by limerick city and county council in 2014 to drive the limerick 2030 economic plan for the city , has been shortlisted in the ' local authority innovation ' category of the awards scheme .  the pilot urban garden project , which resulted in the delivery of a urban garden in o'connell street as part of council 's plans to improve and animate limerick 's retail core and encourage more footfall into the city centre , has been shortlisted in the ' enhancing the urban environment ' category .  meanwhile , a giant 's journey -- one of the centrepiece events of limerick national city of culture 2014 -- is in the . performed by the royal de luxe street theatre company and supported by hundreds of local volunteers , the event attracted more than 100,000 people on to the streets of the city over three days in september 2014 .  " i am delighted to learn that the council has had five projects shortlisted across separate categories of what is a very prestigious awards scheme for the local government sector in ireland , " said councillor liam galvin , mayor of the city and county of limerick .  " this achievement is testament to the hard work and expertise of the staff of the council as well as the wonderful community spirit that exists in the city and county , especially among the many thousands of voluntary community workers . it is especially noteworthy considering the fact that the awards scheme attracted a significant number of nominations from across the country this year , " added the mayor .  " these award nominations represent an external validation of the work of the council staff in partnership with communities within limerick , " commented conn murray , chief executive , : " the excellence in local government awards showcase best practice in local government and highlight some of the great projects that local authorities are undertaking . in limerick city and county council , we pride ourselves on delivering initiatives that greatly enhance the quality of life for those who live and work in limerick , as well as developing projects that promote and enhance limerick 's national and international reputation . "  the chambers ireland excellence in local government awards ceremony takes place in november . prizes will be awarded in 16 categories , while a separate award will be presented to the local authority of the year . visit www.chambers.ie for more .  the clare herald was established in december 2007 as the foremost online news resource for county clare in ireland . it has since become an established online news outlet for the county providing breaking news updates to a growing domestic irish and international audience . the site features local news , business , sports and entertainment news from clare . the clare herald website features contributors who have an impressive journalistic track record both @ @ @ @ @ @ @