Electric Picnic: The Ticket's 2015 awards for best in class
http://www.irishtimes.com/culture/stage/festivals/electric-picnic-2015/electric-picnic-the-ticket-s-2015-awards-for-best-in-class-1.2342238

electric picnic : the ticket 's 2015 awards for best in class  where 's the best place to meet your mates ? has to be the main stage  stradbally 's electric picnic is over for another year , how was yours ? from international headline acts to acrobats , it had it all .  fast friends : you ca n't go wrong by the main stage  best sets :  damon albarn leads blur through an energetic stormer of a set . r ? is ? n murphy turns the electric arena into a blistering , adventurous , electro-pop powerhouse . war on drugs show how far excellent playing chops will get you . and as these pages go to press , florence + the machine are tearing it up on the main stage . the redneck manifesto reform for a salty dog special . bitch falcon go from strength to strength . and chvrches give us all the tingly feelings .  best wardrobe :  r ? is ? n murphy is a performer of many guises : a timid pensioner paparazzi . a shimmering diva with an apparently inexhaustible supply of sunglasses . a blur of flying black and gold fringe . for her most outr ? number , a scarlet red oval that enveloped her in its fleshy folds , murphy offers an anatomical interpretation . " i think i look like a . . . " she begins . " legend , " we all finish .  best sound :  sound mixes at festivals can be hit or miss , but this year most stages sounded impressively crisp throughout the weekend . the awesome set-up in the despacio tent , though , is a cut above the rest . vinyl-only sets on a system designed by james murphy , john klett , mcintosh laboratory and jordan acoustics , with murphy and david and stephen dewaele taking turns for six-hour shifts . phenomenal . and it was fun to see how many djs you could spot in the room at any one time checking out the blingest set-up in the business .  best addition : despacio  see above .  worst addition : e-lites area  school of marketing thought . who 's got a match ?  most unwelcome development :  the proliferation of corporate brands . let 's not be na ? ve : you 're a consumer here whether you like it or not , shedding tenners every other step . but the palsy infiltration of conglomerates into the social life of a festival , offering lounges and domes , phone-charging and photo ops , snacks and larks in exchange for a promotional tweet and the rights to use your image chilled us to the marrow .  best bargain : water  bottled water for just ? 1 at the farmers ' market in body and soul . and of course for free from the drinking stations .  biggest rip off : beer  has there been a sudden crisis in the hops market ? are brew-rich members in obec limiting supply ? how else do we interpret the price spike in pints this year ? leaping from a merely unconscionable high of ? 6 last year to a more brazenly cynical minimum of ? 6.20 ( scaling to ? 6.70 ) , such beer inflation leaves a sour taste .  wine is now the cheapest option . wine . we 're told to drink responsibly , but how about charging us the same way ?  best bro brag :  ogm from ho99o9 a gentleman never kisses and tells , chaps ; what-what ? but new crazes in courtship , such as " sexting " , can still be a grey area for social etiquette . why , only the other night , caddish young swain ogm from modern thrash-hoppers ho99o9 ( which is pronounced " ho77o7 " ) , spoke of receiving professionally taken butt shots from a comely young woman of his acquaintance . " google me , " she deigned to add . " turns out , " trumpeted ogm 's sparkling repartee , " she 's a porn star . " he seemed ever so pleased . to celebrate his good humour , he also performed a standing backflip . we wish the talented couple good luck and rude health .  best place for the shift : the gramophone  romance is where you but we found quite a lot of it , very frequently , on sweetly uninhibited display by the outsized musical sculpture the gramophone , near the pink moon campsite entrance . spilling out ragtime jazz through the night , this was a warming spot for wooers , sitting on its steps in tender embrace , against the sensuous lilt of times past , admiring its huge horn . ah , innocence .  best spuds : home fries  atkins be damned -- these crispy hunks of deliciousness , fried in olive oil and smothered in toppings , were the ultimate comfort food for dinner , at the trailer park . and lunch . and breakfast .  best piece of art : away with the fairies .  from the macro to the micro , the creative installation transported us from the picnic to an even more magical place . delightful . best rumour : jm/hot chip that former lcd soundsystem man james murphy -- here under the despacio guise -- would join hot chip for their al doyle-led cover of all my friends . we 're kind of glad .  room for improvement 1 : security guard knowledge  us : " where are the nearest toilets ? " security guard : " they 're in the oscar wilde campsite . turn right and carry on walking . " forty minutes and a full circle later : " uhh . . . try left ? "  best newcomer : jack garratt  his irish debut set the bar high with a fully-formed sound delivered only by the singer/producer/musician himself -- less of a gimmick than a fascinating watch .  room for improvement 2 : lighting  it 's september -- the grand stretch in the evening is long gone and when it gets dark at electric picnic , it really gets dark . giant illuminated flowers do n't provide as much light as you might think . with 50,000 people milling around in the dark , a floodlight here and there would n't hurt .  most ironic moment : 2unlimited  heroes of the weekend : uplift  the people from uplift who arranged a vigil in solidarity with refugees trying to escape into europe on calais refugee community volunteers who collected leftover tents to help those suffering in the crisis .  worst people : the body snatchers  on a couple of occasions our journalists encountered seemingly interesting funsters who were , in fact , stealth marketeers seeking full brand penetration in the next fiscal quarter . it has made us distrustful of " fun . "  we reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this community , including without limitation if it violates the community standards . we ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . new comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication .