Catholic parishes may take two refugee families, says Bishop
http://www.irishtimes.com/news/social-affairs/religion-and-beliefs/catholic-parishes-may-take-two-refugee-families-says-bishop-1.2343125

he appeared to rule out the prospect of opening churches for accommodation , but said priests across sligo and roscommon had been contacted with a view to compiling an inventory of the suitable accommodation available for refugees .  " i 'm sending out a message to the priests with an information form which i 'm inviting them to make available to parishioners , which would seek to begin to identify places that may be available- be it a vacant house or a granny flat , " he told rt ? radio .  properties on the list will then be assessed to ensure they are of an adequate standard , and church officials in elphin will also liaise with state agencies and local authorities to identify suitable spaces .  " if you have two families it 's not beyond the bounds of possibility that with local support from other families who might not necessarily be providing the accommodation and local businesses , that very decent provision could be made for them , " he said .  " the one thing i would be conscious ' why not open the churches ? ' , and of course in an immediate emergency you would do something like that but the reality is there are n't showers and toilets and bedrooms and privacy in church buildings , " said the bishop .  " what you 're looking to do is welcome people in a manner that is consistent with their own dignity . ireland has long since recognised that direct provision is not the way forward , we should be looking to try and create a situation where a family unit can stay together . "  gesture of solidarity  speaking yesterday , the pope called on " every religious community " to take in one migrant family in a gesture of solidarity , and said the vatican itself would be welcoming two .  there are a total of 1,360 catholic parishes across the ireland . church authorities have not yet announced a unified plan of action in response to the pope 's suggestion .  bishop doran says he has already received representations from people willing to help out with accommodation , and thinks best practice regarding the country 's current domestic homelessness .  " accommodation is there , in many cases it 's underutilised , especially in the west of ireland , and i think there 's a genuine warmth in people 's hearts towards people in need .  " i think maybe if we do this and if we do it well , we may realise that we actually have the solution to our own homelessness crisis as well , " he said .  addressing the issue over the weekend , t ? naiste joan burton said there need be " no upper limit " on the amount of people ireland brings in following suggestions that the minimum threshold will be set at 1,800 .  responding to queries from the irish times , a spokesman for the irish bishops ' conference said the issue of housing migrants can be dealt with individually by each of ireland 's 26 dioceses , adding that the refugee crisis will be a " major " item of discussion at the autumn meeting of the irish catholic bishops ' conference .