Sky Sports, TVs and games consoles make up _50k taxpayer bill at ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/sky-sports-tvs-games-consoles-6516245

Sky Sports , TVs and games consoles make up ? 50k taxpayer bill at youth detention centre  17:53 , 25 Sep 2015  Updated 17:54 , 25 Sep 2015  ByGordon Deegan  The centre near Lusk in Co Dublin has been mired in controversy this year with 31 members of staff assaulted over a four month period  Shares  Get daily news by email  Invalid e-mailThanks for subscribing ! Could not subscribe , try again later  Oberstown Detention Centre in Lusk in Co Dublin  The state has spent almost ? 50,000 since the start of last year on Sky Sports , TVs and MP3 players at Oberstown youth detention centre .  The centre near Lusk in Co Dublin has been mired in controversy this year with 31 members of staff assaulted over a four-month period , while staff were also suspended after three offenders fleeing the facility in July .  Against the background of regular assaults on staff , 11 staff have resigned to date this year and this follows 12 leaving their posts in 2014 - currently , In response to a Freedom of Information ( FOI ) request , the State has confirmed the spend of ? 36,120 on a TV multi-channel subscription that includes Sky Sports between January 2014 and the end of July with the overall spend on Sky , TVs , MP3 players , CD players and game consoles totalling ? 48,506 .  A spokeswoman for the Dept of Children said today that the Sky Sports subscription " is for the benefit of the young people in detention who have limited access to outdoor activities " .  The spokeswoman said that Sky Sports is available in seven separate communal areas of the campus , but not in individuals ' rooms .  Getty Images  Sky Sports is available in seven separate communal areas  The latest Department figures show that there are 48 males and one female in custody at the Oberstown Campus with 23 males aged 16 years , 17 males aged 17 years and eight males aged 15 years with the one female in custody aged 17 .  As part of the overall spend , the Department has spent with an additional spend of ? 7,950 on 34 TVs with ? 669 spent on two game consoles .  Another ? 1,346 was spent on CD players for the teens detained at the centre .  The spokeswoman said : " While children are in detention , a child focused model of care is in place which aims to ' normalise ' the daily living experience to the maximum extent possible , to promote good behaviour and reduce reoffending .  She said : " Efforts are made to engage children in normalised activities to the maximum extent possible in hobbies , culture , music , education , IT / technology , reading and sport and to avoid periods of inactivity .  " This also includes other forms of normal entertainment for young people , including TV and radio .  She added : " Currently all young people have a TV in their room but access to this and viewing can be restricted / prevented if necessary .  " It should be noted that TVs in use in children 's bedrooms have access to terrestrial channels only said that they were Sony devices purchased in 2015 at a cost of ? 45 for use by children in their rooms .  Fianna Fail spokesman for Children , Robert Troy TD said today that it is regrettable that Oberstown is relying on Sky Sports and MP3 players to help keep peace and order there because there is n't anything else for the offenders to do because of staff shortages .  He said : " Watching Sky Sports or listening to MP3 players all day does n't do the young people any favours . It is a retrograde step , but because of staff shortages , staff can not bring the young people out playing soccer . "  A spokesman for IMPACT said that the provision of Sky Sports and MP3 is an important tool in terms of improving the behaviour of offenders at the centre .