Ask Audrey has been sorting out Cork people for years
http://www.irishexaminer.com/lifestyle/features/ask-audrey-has-been-sorting-out-cork-people-for-years-355694.html

Ask Audrey has been sorting out Cork people for years  Friday , September 25 , 2015  Got an issue ? Ask Audrey ...  Guten Tag . I am in Cork for three months and see that everyone is watching the Rugby World Cup . Can you explain the rules ? -- Karl , Berlin  Here is my understanding of how it works . The fat guys all run into each other , while the slightly slimmer guys stand in a line watching them . Eventually the fat guys get tired and have a lie down on top of each other . The ball comes out the back of this lie down and the skinnier guys kick it back and forward to each other for half an hour . Then the fat guys wake up and start running into each other again . Every now and again the referee stops play because someone dropped the ball . That 's the only thing you are not allowed to do in rugby . Everything else would appear to be okay . Sometimes one group of fat is some manly hugging , but no shifting like in soccer . After 80 minutes they add up the score and New Zealand wins .  Hey . My girlfriends and I are flying in to Cork from London for a hen party this weekend . ( We thought it would be fun to slum it for a few days . ) What can you tell us about men in Cork ? -- Tashki , Chelsea ( the posh bit , none of your Made in Chelsea vulgarity here . )  I could tell you all sorts of things about men in Cork . I wo n't write them here because I know my husband reads this column . ( Do n't forget to put out the bins , love . ) You 'll find men from all over the world in Cork . Quite a few of them have hardly any English at all and tend to communicate with whistles and hand signals . They are known locally as Kerrymen . One thing for certain is you 'll get a welcome here on Leeside . It 's a well-established get their hands on posh totty . Even if it means listening to a whining blow-hole like yourself .  I 'm planning to buy what we 'll call a sex toy online . I do n't want it delivered to the door because our postman is a bit too familiar as it is . Would you recommend I use one of those outdoor parcel pick-up services advertised on the radio ? -- Laura , Sundays Well  I would not . Picking a parcel up at one of those yokes is a complete no-no . You might as well wear a T-shirt saying ' I 'm up to all sorts behind closed doors . ' It 's given me a new pastime . I park near to one of the parcel pick-ups and wait for a client to arrive . You should see the look of terror when I shout " go on you dirty perv " out the window at them . I 'm not the only one taking part in this new thing called Perv-Shouting . It can be hard to get a parking near the one in a few hours .  Hola . I am travelling to Cork next week to start studying in UCC . Is it possible to be friends with an Irish boy without him wanting to sleep with me ? -- Maria , Barcelona  Not really . Particularly if you look like Penelope Cruz and he 's after a few cans of Der Student Special from Lidl . ( I hear that after five cans , almost everyone looks like Penelope Cruz . ) There is one exception . That 's if you are one of those Spanish women who has gone small and stooped prematurely , rather than waiting until she is 50 . In that case , you 'll have no end of Irish lads looking to be your best friend . That 's because you fit into every Irish man 's dream category -- Someone I wo n't try and shift after five pints who happens to have a hot friend from Valencia . I 'm not sure if you fit into this category . Send in a photo and I 'll let you know .  Top of are visitin ' the auld sod next week . We 'll be spendin ' a few days in your fair city and I was wondering what is the best way to get someone 's attention in Cork ? -- Hank MagillaMurphy III , Chicago  You could always try stand on Oliver Plunkett Street and shout " this place is n't a patch on Dublin or Galway . " That 's an excellent way to get attention in Cork . Medical attention , so make sure your insurance will cover it before you travel . The correct way to get attention in Cork is with the phrase ' C'mere ' . This can be lengthened to Come Here to Me if you are talking to someone with delusions of grandeur from Bishopstown . ( As if there 's any other kind of person in Bishopstown . ) The exception is when you are in a restaurant , when c'mere  is replaced by Sorry ! Do n't get this wrong . German visitor said ' excuse me ' to a waitress in a restaurant on McCurtain Street back in 1987 . rugby works ... sometimes one group of fat guys pushes the other group over the line and there is some manly hugging , but no shifting like in soccer