The Sunday World Criminal Rich List Part 3
http://www.sundayworld.com/news/crimedesk/the-sunday-world-criminal-rich-list-part-3

our rich list is a tapestry of those who choose a life of crime , but in the murky world of drugs , sex and money , a fortune can be gained and lost in the flick of an eye , or the pull of a trigger .  drug-dealing supremo ' the businessman ' runs a key part of the kinahan outfit in the u.k. he runs a second-hand car scam to transport drugs between spain , the u.k. and ireland and regularly returns home to flash his cash in south dublin . his wife is also a big spender and loves to treat her pals to fancy holidays .  9  ? 16m  ' the smuggler '  the criminal known as ' the smuggler ' is estimated to have at least ? 16m stashed away from his career as a dodgy ' businessman ' . the violent ballyfermot , dublin criminal was hit with a tax bill in excess of ? 2.5m almost 15 years ago , but has clawed back the money many times over . from his spanish villa base market .  8  ? 17m  martin morgan  the kildare native has swapped ireland for upmarket knightsbridge in london after making millions running brothels . ' the beast ' ran a tight ship and liked to keep a close eye on the cash .  he was caught red-handed during a garda operation at a vice den he ran in dublin in 2005 .  a court has ordered he forfeit over ? 252,000 in assets after it was heard that he made ? 4m a year from the vice trade .  judge frank o'donnell described morgan 's business as a " magnificent operation , highly sophisticated and highly rewarding and not a petty little business working on a shoestring " .  7  ? 18m  gerard ' the monk ' hutch  hutch was adept at planning and organising robberies on premises and during cash deliveries . he was also an expert in laundering his ill-gotten gains and has gone into semi-retirement recently in lanzarote .  at home he owns a plush property in clontarf and is believed to have investments in hotels 20m  noel ' kingsize ' duggan  the country 's top cigarette smuggler has amassed a massive nest egg from flooding the black market with cut-price fags . he has been decades in the business and in 2002 handed over the keys of business premises in dublin worth ? 5m to cab .  he is said to have smuggled everything from toilet rolls to bottles of knock-off booze , but is staunchly anti-drugs .  =6  ? 20m  tom mcfeely  nicknamed ' the bomber ' , hunger striker mcfeely is a devout ira man turned developer who is famous for bad buildings like priory hall .  despite paying out ? 8m to cab in 2006 , he bought a ? 50k bentley the next day .  he is bankrupt in ireland , but gardai believe he has squirrelled away millions -- and in true ira fashion he is suspected of having stashes hidden under floorboards .