Husband found guilty of wife's murder kills himself in courtroom as ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/news/world-news/husband-found-guilty-wifes-murder-6634484

Husband found guilty of wife 's murder kills himself in courtroom as judge passes sentence  When an accident turned out to be foul play , no one expected the killer to pass his own sentence ...  Get daily news by email  Invalid e-mailThanks for subscribing ! Could not subscribe , try again later  Roanoke.com  Mark knew his wife was leaving him , so he killed her and then himself during his trial  At first , the death of teacher Anne Faville appeared to be a tragic accident . It looked like she 'd been dining alone and had fatally choked on a piece of chicken .  Even an autopsy confirmed that theory -- but the behaviour of her husband Mark roused suspicions with police . And when his own children turned against him , people began to question just what Mark really knew about Anne 's ' accident ' .  When the truth was finally revealed , Mark 's response shocked everyone .  Ready to leave  Mark had been married to local fifth-grade teacher Anne , 52 Virginia , and had three grown-up children .  As the years rolled by , Mark had become increasingly controlling over his wife . Anne felt trapped in the marriage and was looking for a way out .  Before her death , Anne , 52 , had reconnected with a high-school sweetheart online and rekindled their romance . Chris Crowley lived in California , but they messaged constantly and Anne was planning to end things with her husband to be with him .  Unfortunately , Mark knew about her plans . He 'd grown suspicious and started to follow her everywhere . He did n't want his wife to leave him .  On March 7 , 2000 , her online flame , Chris , called the police in a panic to say he had n't heard from Anne and he was worried . She 'd told Chris she was going to tell Mark their marriage was over . So where was she ?  Not long afterwards , at around 1pm , Mark ran to a neighbour 's house shouting for help . He said he 'd come she 'd choked on some food so he 'd performed the Heimlich manoeuvre .  Frantic neighbours Robert and Melissa Frederick raced over and found Anne 's body on the floor . She was cold to the touch , but Mark was sitting on her chest and slapping her face in an attempt to revive her . When Robert tried to help , Mark refused to step away .  Even when paramedics arrived , Mark was huddled around Anne , restricting their access . But they determined there was nothing they could do and Anne was pronounced dead .  After her death , police discovered Anne 's diary at her home , " I am in love for the first time in 33 years , " it read . " I feel compelled to check my mail ... I am having the time of my life . "  Even Mark 's children feared their dad might have played a part in their mum 's death -- they 'd seen his obsessive behaviour towards her . Anne had died just as she was about to break free , which said Anne had choked on food -- probably a piece of chicken because some was found in her stomach . Her death was deemed accidental .  Straight away , relations between Mark and his children grew strained . Mark wanted Anne buried while her children wanted her cremated -- which had been Anne 's wish . Mark changed his mind when police brought him in for more questioning and Anne was cremated . It seemed the case was closed .  The years went by and Mark remarried . His children filed a wrongful death lawsuit against their dad , alleging that he drugged , beat and choked Anne , then stood by as she died . It was dismissed , but Mark agreed on a settlement without admitting any guilt .  Google Maps  The courthouse where Mark was finally found guilty of murder  Again , Mark walked free . It took 12 years before the case was reopened and a new autopsy was ordered -- done through a re-examination of the paperwork , pictures and evidence .  This time , a medical examiner said Anne significant bruising to her arms , pelvic area , head , face and chest , as well as lacerations on her face .  In 2013 , Mark was charged with murder . At the trial this year at Montgomery County Courthouse , Mark , now 70 , confirmed that he knew Anne was planning to leave him and that she was sleeping in the spare room . His daughters testified against him .  After Anne 's death , Mark had written lists and letters . One read , " ... after the toxicology report , they will have all they need . They will come to get me . " Another was a letter Mark had written to God the day Anne died . It read , " ... please put us back together now or you know something bad will happen very soon . "  The final twist  Chris Crowley spoke about how he 'd known Anne at high school but they 'd gone their separate ways when he joined the military . They 'd reconnected a month before her death and he told the court and the " flame had never extinguished " .  " Did Mrs Faville indicate that she was in love with you ? " he was asked . " Yes , and that she always had been , " he replied .  Both medical examiners argued their opinions on the autopsy , but after a few hours of deliberation , the jury had a verdict . Mark was found guilty of voluntary manslaughter and Anne 's family sobbed with relief .  But there was a final twist . As Mark was led away , court officials were heard yelling , " Drop it , drop it . " Suddenly , the courtroom was evacuated .  After a few hours , it was revealed that Mark Faville had died from a self-inflicted wound .  It was never disclosed just how Mark killed himself -- to protect court security and so others could n't follow his example . Courtroom staff are n't allowed to carry guns , and x-ray machines screen for metal objects . All that was revealed was that he 'd died from a laceration from a @ @ @ @ @