Jail sentence for hoax bomb threat
http://www.derryjournal.com/news/jail-sentence-for-hoax-bomb-threat-1-7041612

jail sentence for hoax bomb threat  14:22saturday 31 october 2015  a 66 year-old derry man has received a five-month jail sentence for making a hoax bomb threat in july of this year .  james harkin appeared at derry magistrate 's court via video link from maghaberry prison yesterday morning . the court heard that harkin , who has an address at altcar park , telephoned the fire and rescue service on july 30 from a pay box beside damien house , foyle road . cctv footage later recovered by police placed harkin at the scene at the time the call was made .  a solicitor for the public prosecution service told the court that harkin had claimed he was from oglaigh n na heireann and had used a code word when he alleged that explosives had been abandoned near the railway museum on foyle road . harkin had initially denied making the call and said he had called bt on 151 to ask that a new phone line be installed in his friend 's home .  the court then heard that harkin from bishop street when he alleged that a firearm had been left at an address in shipquay street .  defence barrister eoghan devlin told the court the code word which had been used by his client had actually been " bastard " and as such the authorities would have realised that they were not dealing with a serious threat from a terrorist organisation .  " mr harkin is on anti-psychotic mediation and he mixed this medication with alcohol , " said mr devlin . " i think that the court is able to see that he cuts a rather pathetic figure . he is more a man to be pitied that to be scorned . "  but district judge barney mcelholm said that even if police had been minded to be " cynical " about the threat , they still had to close the area down ; " my own home town has been closed down in this way , several times in recent weeks . although i think that more sinister elements that this one are responsible for that , " he said .  this website organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then contact the editor by clicking here .  if you remain dissatisfied with the response provided then you can contact the ipso by clicking here .  derry journal provides news , events and sport features from the derry area . for the best up to date information relating to derry and the surrounding areas visit us at derry journal regularly or bookmark this page .  for you to enjoy all the features of this website derry journal requires permission to use cookies .  find out more ?  what is a cookie ?  what is a flash cookie ?  can i opt out of receiving cookies ?  about our cookies  cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( internet explorer , firefox , chrome etc ) from a website you visit . they are stored on your electronic device .  this is a type of cookie which is collected by adobe flash media player ( a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  however , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not function as a result .  the types of cookies we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  revenue science ?  a tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  google ads ?  our sites contain advertising from google ; these use cookies can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' your online choices ' website by clicking here .  digital analytics ?  this is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . this data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  dart for publishers ?  this comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites , so that you do n't just see one advert but an even spread . this information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  comscore ?  comscore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  local targeting ?  our classified websites ( photos , motors , jobs and property today ) use and content when you visit them . these cookies store no personally identifiable information .  grapeshot ?  we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  subscriptions online ?  our partner for newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  add this ?  add this provides the social networking widget found in many of our pages . this widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .