Everton's Ramiro Funes Mori insists he had no doubts about cutting ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/sport/soccer/soccer-news/evertons-ramiro-funes-mori-insists-6743099

there was n't a single away fan in the stadium to celebrate -- but his winner gave river plate their first victory on boca soil in a decade and they went on to claim the argentine title .  little wonder then , that funes mori feels that life in england will suit him just fine .  " i 'm not a very experienced person but because of what i did in argentina i was much more comfortable about coming to england , " said the 24-year-old .  liverpool echo  all smiles : funes mori celebrates with leon osman  " that game against boca was incredible . we played away from home and there were no away fans because the supporters over there always fight with each other .  " so there was maybe 45,000 fans against 11 players and another five on the bench . when i scored , i was screaming with emotion . i could only hear myself and my team-mates screaming because the home fans had gone so quiet .  " i think the boca fans now just plays football and does n't think about what is going on off the pitch . "  funes mori describes himself as a " quick learner . " born in the city of cordoba , his parents moved him and his twin brother rogelio to dallas , texas when they were 10 after his father found work as a mechanic .  getty  argentine ace : funes mori spent six years with river plate  the brothers took their love of football with them and moved back to argentina when river plate offered them both a contract after a brief trial with chelsea came to nothing .  funes mori said : " i am very close to my brother and we speak to each other every day on skype . he came to europe first , with benfica , but he is now playing in mexico with monterrey .  " he is very happy there , but it is also his dream to play in england , so maybe one day he will come here .  " i 'm still adapting to it all , but here i was able to play three or four games very quickly .  everton facebook  summer signing : funes mori gives his move to everton the thumbs up  " that has given me a lot of confidence . i did n't think i would play that quickly , but i was ready , and to play in the premier league is a dream come true because i think it is the best league in europe . "  funes mori added : " the football here has n't got the pressure of argentina . in the derby against liverpool , of course , i felt the pressure but it was a good pressure .  " in argentina they overexcite their fans ; in mexico people are very calm . england is a very hard league , extremely intense and physical , with very fast players .  " but when i came here i said to myself that i would enjoy the moment and when i saw the fans outside the church for howard kendall 's funeral this week , i really got a feeling about how @ @ @ @ @ @ @