Sean Connery's wife facing trial over alleged multi-million pound tax ...
http://www.irishmirror.ie/showbiz/celebrity-news/sean-connerys-wife-facing-trial-6907438

micheline roquebrune has been formally accused of defrauding spanish treasury of ? 5.5million over sale of couple 's former home in marbella  shares  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  getty  probe : micheline roquebrune has been formally accused of aiding and abetting a complex fraud  sean connery 's wife has been ordered to stand trial over an alleged multi-million pound tax fraud .  state prosecutors want french-born micheline roquebrune jailed for two and a half years and fined more than ? 16million if found guilty .  a judge in marbella made his trial decision after a long-running investigation into the 1999 sale of the home sir sean , 85 , and his artist wife owned in the costa del sol resort .  the former 007 star was investigated over the same case but told he would not face trial at the start of last year .  investigating magistrate alfredo mondeja decided to shelve his probe into the retired scots actor after receiving a 56-page affidavit from former 007 " obstructive and ignorant " as he announced his decision to eliminate him from his inquiry - dubbed goldfinger after the famous 1964 james bond film he starred in .  he said at the same time he was continuing his investigation against sir sean 's wife - who has now been charged - over alleged irregularities in the sale of the couple 's former home called casa malibu .  a rogatory letter will now be sent to the bahamas where the couple live informing micheline of the court decision and ordering her to appoint a defence lawyer .  a date for the trial , which will take place at a criminal court in malaga , has yet to be set .  state prosecutors formally accused sir sean 's wife of being accomplice to an alleged tax fraud in an indictment earlier this year .  they say she aided and abetted a complex operation to defraud the spanish treasury of nearly 7.7 million euros , or ? 5.5million in 2006 through a spanish company called by the sea .  the fine they are seeking defrauded .  prison sentences for first-time offenders are normally only suspended if they are two years or less , raising the real prospect sir sean 's wife will do time if she is convicted and sentenced in line with the state prosecution demand .  prosecutors allege micheline collaborated with other lawyers and businessmen charged in the goldfinger case to formalize " fictitious legal transactions " so profits obtained during the sale of casa malibu could be hidden from the taxman .  it was sold in 1999 and subsequently demolished .  more than 70 flats , later sold for an estimated 45 million , were built in its place despite planning regulations stipulating only five flats could be built there .  the long-running judicial probe into the deal will reach open court in january when 16 defendants including a former corrupt mayor of marbella and two lawyers , go on trial .  prosecutors want the alleged wrongdoers sentenced to a total of 156 years in prison if they are found guilty of crimes including tax fraud and receiving bribes former marbella mayor julian munoz and ex-town to stand trial , are already serving prison sentences for separate corruption convictions .  micheline roquebrune 's trial will take place separately because the last part of the probe into her alleged wrongdoing has been conducted as a separate investigation .  a prosecutor acting on behalf of marbella town hall and a specialist prosecutor who pursues crimes against the state will also take the stand against her as well as the standard state prosecutor .  the town hall prosecutor is calling for the same punishment for sir sean 's wife as the normal state prosecutor .  the specialist prosecutor is demanding a six-month prison sentence .  investigating judge alfredo mondeja blasted sir sean and his wife early last year over delays in the case when he announced he was taking no further action against the scots actor but would continue to probe micheline .  he announced his decision after receiving an affidavit from sir sean more than a year and a half after it was completed - and two and a half years after investigators sent an international ' letter of request ' to the of " legal ignorance " , he said : " although the delays may have harmed the progress of the case , it 's also true that if the suspects had observed the proper rules of conduct , namely a minimum level of cooperation with the judicial authorities , the fate of those suspects would have been clarified more than two years ago . "  describing the delays as incomprehensible , he added : " perhaps it would lead one to think that the idea was to protect or hide the acts or participation of the actor 's wife , something that only harmed sir sean himself . "  and recalling reports around the time sir sean was first named in the probe that it had cost him a lucrative publicity contract , he claimed : " such damage , if it existed , is largely down to the suspects ' own slackness , a slackness that could even be described as showing little respect towards the work of the spanish judicial system . "  a leaked copy of sir sean 's affidavit was published in a respected  it showed the retired actor had been asked in a probing legal document if he had any relationship with convicted criminals and was quizzed about his personal finances including possible offshore accounts in the bahamas .  he denied any links to corrupt town hall officials in marbella who are now serving prison sentences and any involvement in firms linked to the alleged multi-million fraud relating to the property deal involving sir sean 's former home .  michelle roquebrune , sir sean 's second wife , has previously claimed when allegations of money laundering first surfaced at the start of the goldfinger judicial probe : " these allegations of money-laundering are nonsense .  " we have nothing to do with this . we sold the property and that is it . "  diaz-bastian &amp; truan , sir sean 's lawyers at the time of the marbella property deal , have repeatedly refused to respond to emails sent to their offices in the costa del sol resort and madrid asking them for a comment .