Who's Next For Anthony Joshua?
http://www.punditarena.com/boxing/jotoole/whos-next-anthony-joshua/

who 's next for anthony joshua ?  after overcoming his biggest professional challenge yet , olympic gold medalist anthony joshua has cemented himself as a genuine threat in the heavyweight division after a devastating seventh round knockout of the previously undefeated dillian whyte .  in front of a sold out o2 arena crowd in london , joshua took seven rounds to figure out an awkward and uncompromising whyte but eventually wore down the stocky power puncher and dropped him with a brutal uppercut halfway through the seventh round .  it was the culmination of a couple of round 's worth of punishment for whyte as he eventually succumbed to joshua 's onslaught as the commonwealth champion extended his unbeaten record to 15-0 .  joshua 's win has caught the attention of a couple of heavyweights and has set up a number of intriguing match-ups within the division . here we look at some of the possible candidates for joshua 's next fight .   deontay wilder  pound-for-pound the best boxer in the division , wilder has developed a fierce reputation for accumulating an impressive 35-0 record with 34 knockouts . a bronze medalist at the 2008 beijing olympics , wilder has had an incredibly successful pro career with some big wins over audley harrison , malik scott and bermane stiverne to name a few .  johann duhaupas and deontay wilder fight at legacy arena at the bjcc on september 26 , 2015 in birmingham , alabama . ( photo by david a. smith/getty images )   wilder would probably be too much of a jump for joshua at this stage of his career but would present an intriguing match-up nonetheless , as wilder 's 6ft 7in frame and 83-inch reach would nullify joshua 's length and range .   tyson fury  if , for some reason , tyson fury 's rematch with wladimir klitschko falls through , then the next big fight for fury is undoubtedly joshua at this stage . after upsetting klitschko in dusseldorf two weeks ago , fury is the biggest name in boxing as we enter the post-mayweather era and a potential fight with joshua would be very lucrative and would generate massive interest has been confirmed for sometime in 2016 but you can bet that fury and joshua will cross paths at some stage should both fighters remain undefeated .   david haye  one of the few fighters haye respects in the heavyweight division , a joshua-haye bout would be a mouthwatering prospect for boxing fans as joshua 's length and accuracy would be tested by haye 's speed and volume .  david haye before his vacant wbo and wba international heavyweight championship bout with dereck chisora on july 14 , 2012 in london , england . ( photo by scott heavey/getty images )   the ' hayemaker ' is set to return to the ring early next year against mark de mori and should he prevail victorious he could have a fight with joshua waiting in the pipeline . haye would be a huge step up from joshua 's previous opponents and after his brutal knockout of whyte , there 's only so much longer joshua will wait before making the step up .   dereck chisora  a fighter that would present many of the same obstacles boxing and will put bums on seats even if he fails to live up to the challenge . chisora would mark another stepping stone for joshua with a bout between the two providing ' aj ' with an opportunity to improve on some of the deficiencies shown in the fight with whyte .  dereck chisora of great britain ( r ) in boxing action against marcelo luiz nascimento of brazil during the international heavyweight contest at the sse arena , wembley on september 26 , 2015 in london , england . ( photo by leigh dawney/getty )   ' del boy ' is riding a four-fight win streak and has won nine of his last ten fights with his only loss coming at the hands of fury , who won by technical decision at the docklands last year . chisora is the most realistic possibility of the aforementioned for joshua and could very well be his next fight if a rematch with whyte can not be arranged .   dillian whyte  a rematch was not the first thing many of us thought when we saw whyte dangling his lips , but apart from being knocked out , whyte presented joshua with his most difficult challenge yet and had at one stage rocked the champion in the second round . the theatrics at the conclusion of the first and whyte 's failure to hang around at the end when joshua had his hand raised shows that there is still a lot of bad blood that exists between the two and a rematch may be a more realistic proposition than many would think .  british boxer anthony joshua ( l ) vies against british boxer dillian whyte during their british and commonwealth heavyweight title boxing match at the o2 arena in london on december 12 , 2015 . afp photo / justin tallis / afp / justin tallis ( photo credit should read justin tallis/afp/getty images )   while there will still be many people that will want to see joshua face a bigger test , if that challenge can not be found in the short term there 's no reason why eddie hearn can not get the band back together and reproduce what was a very entertaining as to who was the better fighter , ' aj ' may feel like he could 've put him away a little sooner and may want the opportunity to prove it .  about jack o'toole  21-year-old journalism student who is looking to give sports writing a good crack . dcu student and goal.com writer . **29;1376;toolong fan . to view more of my articles head to www.menaboutsport.com