Limerick girls unlucky in Great Irish Bake Off finale
http://www.limerickleader.ie/what-s-on/arts-entertainment/tv-radio/limerick-girls-unlucky-in-great-irish-bake-off-finale-1-7115608

IT WAS an unlucky final round for the two Limerick contestants taking part in the Great Irish Bake Off , as Monaghan woman Cathy McKenna was instead crowned Ireland 's champion amateur baker .  Fighting for the top prize on Sunday night were South Circular Road financial advisor Emer Hough and Fedamore teacher Clare Ryan .  In the grand finale , the three finalists were given their most complex task ; to bake a deconstructed apple crumble to Michelin-star standard , followed by the show-stopper -- the construction of a 20-inch tall , three-tier wedding cake .  Clare , who is a teacher at Thomond Primary School , finished her campaign with a wedding cake that consisted of a dark and white chocolate biscuit cake layer with raspberry ganache ; a coconut cake with blueberry and passion fruit curd ; and a third layer of peanut cake with peanut caramel filling .  And for Emer 's final attempt to woo the judges , her three layers consisted of chocolate and salted caramel ; a lemon and blueberry tier ; and a " rainbow showdown and eight gruelling weeks of baking , the two Limerick girls did not return home with the Great Irish Bake Off title .  After the decision , Emer said : " Unfortunately today did n't go well but that does n't cancel out all the experiences that came before that . I am delighted I came , I really am . "  Commenting on the final bake-off result , Clare said : " I 'd definitely make a wedding cake again but just not one in five hours ! "  Speaking of the decision , judge Paul Kelly said : " That was one of the toughest decisions we have ever made in a final , it was so close . "  Days before the final , Emer said she was expecting the final showdown to be " nail-biting " . She said that her local rival Clare was also a close companion throughout the series .  " Clare is a really lovely person and I get on really , really well with her . It was lovely to be able to moan about the steady , bake ! ' and then three hours later , there 's Clare with something amazing . Every single time , she really pulls it out of the bag . Clare 's an incredibly talented baker . "  This weekend , the Great Irish Bake Off will return for a Christmas special , which will feature Leanne Moore .  This website and its associated newspaper are full participating members of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman go towww.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Limerick Leader provides news , events and sport features from the Limerick area . For the best up to date information relating to Limerick and the surrounding areas visit us at Limerick Leader regularly or bookmark this page .  For you to enjoy all the features of this website Limerick Leader ?  What is a Cookie ?  What is a Flash Cookie ?  Can I opt out of receiving Cookies ?  About our Cookies  Cookies are small data files which are sent to your browser ( Internet Explorer , Firefox , Chrome etc ) from a website you visit . They are stored on your electronic device .  This is a type of cookie which is collected by Adobe Flash media player ( it is also called a Local Shared Object ) - a piece of software you may already have on your electronic device to help you watch online videos and listen to podcasts .  Yes there are a number of options available , you can set your browser either to reject all cookies , to allow only " trusted " sites to set them , or to only accept them from the site you are currently on .  However , please note - if you block/delete all cookies , some features of our websites , such as remembering your login details , or the site branding for your local newspaper may not we , our ad network and technology partners use are listed below :  Revenue Science ?  A tool used by some of our advertisers to target adverts to you based on pages you have visited in the past . To opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Google Ads ?  Our sites contain advertising from Google ; these use cookies to ensure you get adverts relevant to you . You can tailor the type of ads you receive by visiting here or to opt out of this type of targeting you can visit the ' Your Online Choices ' website by clicking here .  Digital Analytics ?  This is used to help us identify unique visitors to our websites . This data is anonymous and we can not use this to uniquely identify individuals and their usage of the sites .  Dart for Publishers ?  This comes from our ad serving technology and is used to track how many times you have seen a particular ad on our sites but an even spread . This information is not used by us for any other type of audience recording or monitoring .  ComScore ?  ComScore monitor and externally verify our site traffic data for use within the advertising industry . Any data collected is anonymous statistical data and can not be traced back to an individual .  Local Targeting ?  Our Classified websites ( Photos , Motors , Jobs and Property Today ) use cookies to ensure you get the correct local newspaper branding and content when you visit them . These cookies store no personally identifiable information .  Grapeshot ?  We use Grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation . Grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to . Their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here .  Subscriptions Online ?  Our partner for Newspaper subscriptions online stores data from the forms you complete in these to increase the usability of the site and enhance user experience .  Add This in many of our pages . This widget gives you the tools to bookmark our websites , blog , share , tweet and email our content to a friend .