How to Take the Pain out of the Post-Party Tidy
http://image.ie/interiors/article/take-pain-post-party-tidy/

image business woman of the year 2015 judges lunch  how to take the pain out of the post-party tidy  we learn how to stop dreading the clean-up with a positive attitude and some hardworking appliances ... here are derry clarke 's top tips .  your event went off without a hitch , the guests left full and happy , and bed is beckoning -- but before you reward yourself with a well-deserved slumber , there 's some cleaning-up to be done . it 's certainly never going to be the highlight of your night , but these forward-thinking tips can help get you to bed a lot sooner ...  1 . be prepared start with as clean a slate as possible by setting aside time to clean up after any prep work and before you make yourself presentable . use this time solely to run and empty the dishwasher , clear counter space , and get tupperware ready for storing leftovers : anything that will help to make sure you 've got plenty of room to work with throughout the night .  within reasonable designated limits , so debris does n't spill over unnecessarily into other areas of your home .  3 . clean as you go honouring the old " stitch in time " proverb , a little effort in the now can save us from facing into a nightmare of mess later.quicklyfilling just-emptied pots and pans with a little hot , soapy water -- or moving used dishes straight from the table to the dishwasher between courses if there 's time -- will seriously lessen your clean-up woes later .  4 . keep d ? cor minimal understated style not only looks great , it also spares you cleaning up discarded party props for weeks to come . so when it comes to table d ? cor , keep things classic , crisp and elegant .  5 . have a practical plan it would be cruel to expect yourself to get the place spotless after a hectic night of hosting , so resolve to only tackle the most time-sensitive of jobs . fill the dishwasher , load table linens into the washing machine ( checking for any rogue . make some space for your morning coffee in peace , then call it a night .