Civet gains lofty status in coffee world
http://business.inquirer.net/45229/civet-gains-lofty-status-in-coffee-world

civets ( alamid ) are cat-like creatures , with a proclivity for sweet coffee berries .  the civet was traditionally hunted as a pest , but a booming market in civet coffee has changed its fate , turning it from ' pest ' into ' producer ' .  civets ( alamid ) are cat-like nocturnal creatures , with a proclivity for sweet coffee berries . the discerning civet will choose only the ripest berries from the coffee tree , and process the pulp , but not the bean .  it takes around 20 minutes for the carnivorous creature to digest the berry and discard the bean , intact .  advertisement  gastric juices of the civet penetrate the coffee bean , leaving tiny holes , only visible under a microscope . the digestion process produces an inimitable coffee tasting experience .  rare , unique product  coffee aficionados ca n't get enough of this rare and unique product . selling for as much as $50 per cup in luxury markets , civet coffee is the most expensive coffee in the world . largest markets for the luxury beverage , but demand continues to grow across the world .  gerald jr . works the land of his father and grandfather , spanning some 40 hectares of dense , native forest . his mission is to preserve traditional ifugao farming practices and introduce new ones that will protect civets and their forests .  harvesting methods remain unchanged in asipulo , coffee is still picked and processed by loving hands .  the biggest difference is that the new generation of farmers , look to the coffee beans on the forest floor and not the berries in the tree .  beginning in june 2007 , gerald jr . was the first in asipulo to harvest civet coffee , alongside his ordinary crop . while other farmers continued to throw away civet coffee , and hunt the ' crop destroying ' creature , gerald jr . promotes their survival and usefulness .  gerald jr . also rejects slash-and-burn techniques , which some coffee farmers still practice .  " we do n't like to ... follow their system of just open farming , cutting down the trees , we just plant coffee under them . "  economic sense eventually won over local farmers .  instead of collecting ordinary coffee and selling it wholesale to large companies , asipulo farmers have tapped into the luxury civet coffee market abroad .  gerald jr . coordinates the sale of asipulo civet coffee , exporting it directly to the us , switzerland and canada .  civet coffee is also sold locally , well below international market prices . arabica civet beans fetch $70 per 100g while robusta civet beans sell for $40 per 100g .  origin  the origins of civet coffee have gained mythical status , and date back to dutch colonial indonesia in the 18th century .  so the story goes , the dutch forbid local plantation workers from picking coffee berries for their own use .  the indonesian workers noticed that local civets consumed the berries and discarded the bean . keen to try the exotic brew , locals collected civet coffee beans for themselves .  long popular in indonesia , civet coffee only emerged in international many hands make light work , during the labor-intensive harvest season .  " in the community if you need help , they come and help . and you help them in return . " gerald jr . explains .  once the civet coffee is collected , it is thoroughly washed and dried . it is then pounded in a mortar and pestle to separate the bean from the shell .  beans are exported unroasted , while beans sold locally are roasted in a traditional charcoal and clay pot .  in november last year a quality test tasting of civet coffee was conducted in switzerland .  the civet coffee market has been flooded with cheap civet coffee of dubious quality and authenticity .  enterprising farmers across southeast asia have established caged-civet farms .  caged civets are fed large amounts of coffee , only a small part of their diet in the wild , and farmers are able to produce much larger quantities for lower prices .  the swiss event entitled ' taste the myth ' featured philippine civet coffee from asipulo , which was and swiss coffee scientist dr. chahan yeretzian , among others .  mild , full flavor  dr. yeretzian used a microscope to verify the civet coffee 's authenticity . strittmatter admired the mild , full flavor .  while ordinary coffee has a bitter aftertaste , civet coffee is strong but smooth , its flavors linger on the tongue .  ' gogi ' is the star of gerald jr . ' s civet rehabilitation center . when she was found in a hunter 's trap in february last year , she was half-starved and scared .  now , the normally nocturnal animal spends her days wandering around her enclosure , attracting curious passersby . gerald jr . hopes to bring an end to all civet hunting in the community .  " if we know somebody who keeps a civet alive , we go and get them . but we do n't do it by force , of course we do n't want to break the social interaction with the community . "  gerald jr . often pays the hunter for injured civets and explains that preserving experience there are many civets who die because they are very sensitive , once they are injured it becomes worse if it is not treated and they soon will die . "  gerald jr . is optimistic about what the future holds . he wants to increase civet coffee production across asipulo and promote local development .  the local community is increasingly concerned with environmental preservation . they believe the survival of the civet and fate of the community are intertwined .  " it 's about keeping the forest , and how to make profit from the resources of the forest , " says gerald jr .