Earnest, committed portrayals make Angel-Lloydie rom-com viewable
http://entertainment.inquirer.net/30811/earnest-committed-portrayals-make-angel-lloydie-rom-com-viewable

angel locsin and john lloyd cruz 's new " more adult " rom-com , " unofficially yours , " breaks some of the " rules " of its film type , like slowly but surely settling up its love story , so that viewers can empathize with every step of the lead couple 's romance , up to its final , blissful climax and apotheosis -- which is usually a big wedding .  that may work for most rom-coms , but cathy garcia-molina 's new film turns the tried and tested format on its head -- by starting with angel and john lloyd in the full throes of a one-night stand ! the " shocking " or at least surprising scene explains the flick 's " more adult " tag and marks at least an uptick in the screen couple 's continuing process of " maturation . "  it works better for angel than it does for lloydie , because his relatively soft and " healthy " physique is not exactly the stuff of which " bolder " bed scenes are made , or made for being " game " enough to add bite to their previously safe screen " exposure " ( literally ) . some other popular stars would have balked at the " edgier " challenge , so hats off to the two for their guts -- or gumption .  after that " hot " opening sequence , the characters go back to being strangers -- until , by some corkscrewy twist of fate , they find themselves working in the same newspaper office !  john lloyd is clearly smitten , but angel does n't reciprocate because , we find out in due time , she 's been burned by the fickle flames of love , so one-night or one-month stands are fine with her -- absolutely no commitments , please !  john lloyd grudgingly agrees to the rather cold and utilitarian arrangement -- but , viewers may be less amenable to it because , just a few months ago , they watched another movie about a hard-hearted girl ( " my cactus heart " ) , so perhaps they ca n't be blamed for wondering why they 're being after dealing with that momentary downer , however , the viewer can still find interesting things in the film to keep watching . for one thing , the two leads ' portrayals are nothing if not earnest and committed .  still , john lloyd looks a bit too mature for his role . so , when he occasionally indulges in pa-cute and " pang-kilig " antics , they come off as rather forced and inappropriate .  angel comes off better but she , too , is limited by her tense way of delivering her lines , at times even through clenched teeth . if this is motivated by her perception of the unhappiness of the character she plays , it 's a distracting rather than clarifying gambit .  penultimately , the movie reveals the details of angel 's previous love trauma , but the sharing comes too late to be truly useful . another limitation is that her former lover is played by patrick garcia , whose vague performance adds little to our understanding of the issues .  finally , angel 's last-minute change of heart is because no newspaper would allow itself to be used for such personal , self-serving purposes .  all told , " unofficially yours " has more going against rather than for it -- but , the leads ' committed portrayals keep us hoping for the best -- up to the final fade .