Native delicacy boosts income of small vendors in Pangasinan
http://business.inquirer.net/64257/native-delicacy-boosts-income-of-small-vendors-in-pangasinan

food stalls line a busy street in villasis , pangasinan . photo by willie lomibao  villasis , pangasinan -- on a good day , leticia flores sells at least 700 pieces of tupig ( grilled powdered glutinous rice wrapped in banana leaves ) from her stall near the town hall here .  at p5 apiece , that 's at least p3,500 -- more than enough for her to pay for the ingredients she needs every day to keep her small business going .  " this is really a big help for my family , " says flores , who has been selling tupig for 10 years .  advertisement  " this business has taught us to live ; it fed our families and sent our kids to school , " adds elvira ordo ? ez , 48 , who started selling tupig when she was 16 .  their work begins at night when they mix by hand powdered glutinous rice , sugar , grated coconut , coconut milk and margarine in a large basin . they wrap the mixture in banana leaves .  " we just have to be very patient , " says ordo ? ez .  flores says their product must be better than the tupig being sold in other pangasinan towns to win the loyalty of customers .  " our customers come to us . we do not have to run and chase passenger buses just to sell tupig , " she explains .  flores says anjo farms , an exporter of pangasinan food products based in san fabian town , often orders tupig from her for export .  two women tend to their delectable wares . photo by willie lomibao  " of course , balikbayans here also order from us before they return to wherever they came from , " ordo ? ez says .  flores says the stalls provided to them by the town government were a big help because they made them more visible to potential buyers .  mayor libradita abrenica says the " tupig lane , " which consists of 15 stalls , was established in 2005 during the term of former mayor nonato abrenica , her husband passersby can easily see them , " abrenica says . " when they were inside the public market , they only sold until 10 a.m . when we placed them here , their income increased because they can now sell all day , " she says .  abrenica says it also helps that tupig made in this town tastes better than those from other towns which are harder , smaller and wrapped in thick banana leaves . thus buyers looking for the best tupig come to villasis .  the town government also taught tupig makers and vendors how to make their products presentable so that they can command a better price . this is why tupig makers can sell their products at p100 a box with 20 pieces .  " as it is , it 's already good . but we are encouraging them to further improve their packaging , " says abrenica.