Politicians, feuding companies make use of Pacquiao fever
http://newsinfo.inquirer.net/209781/politicians-feuding-companies-make-use-of-pacquiao-fever

June 9th , 2012 06:52 PM  Manny Pacquiao and American boxer Timothy Bradley Jr . AFP file photo  CABANATUAN CITY , Philippines -- Streamers announcing live public screening schedules of Sunday 's fight between boxing champ Manny Pacquiao and American boxer Timothy Bradley Jr . have been put up in communities in Nueva Ecija .  And like previous public screening announcements of the Saranggani lawmaker 's earlier bouts , these streamers come with the names of politicians who financed these " public services . "  Political families and businessmen have always profited each time the so-called Pacman fever rose . Local cinemas , sports clubs and dining areas have been selling pay-per-view tickets here and in various parts of Luzon .  ADVERTISEMENT  The Nueva Ecija government has sponsored free public screenings of the in three venues in Cabanatuan City starting at 9 a.m . Sunday .  Jayson Marcos , officer-in-charge of the provincial capitol 's youth development services office , said the live screenings were " part of our efforts to promote sports and fitness and as a public service People are expected to troop to the Nueva Ecija University of Science and Technology gym , the Padre Crisostomo Elementary School gym in Barangay Aduas , and Barangay DS Garcia gym here on Sunday morning .  The provincial government also facilitated public screenings in the towns of Pe ? aranda , Zaragoza , San Antonio , Laur , Sto . Domingo , Sta . Rosa and Quezon , and Gapan City .  In Dagupan City , the CSI Mall has also been selling tickets for the match . A local resident said the show may include short commercial clips of Pangasinan politicians expressing support for Pacquiao , which were featured in previous fights screened by the mall .  In Baguio City , the developer and administrator of Camp John Hay ended up tussling over the Pacquiao-Bradley match . Alfredo Y ? iguez , executive vice president of the Camp John Hay Development Corp . ( CJHDevco ) , said he was enraged by a directive from a government agency that stopped it from screening the match at a John Hay hotel .  In a statement released this ) informed CJHDevco that it would have to " change the venue of the pay-per-view Pacquiao-Bradley match scheduled on June 10 at the 19th Tee of the Camp John Hay Suites . "  The Suites , operated by the CJHDevco , has not been given an occupancy permit by JHMC due to alleged violations of the building code and fire safety regulations , a JHMC statement said .  JHMC , estate manager of the former American rest and recreation baseland , is a subsidiary of the Bases Group of Companies owned by the Bases Conversion and Development Authority , which is in the middle of a contractual dispute with CJHDevco .  Y ? iguez said : " We have no plans to change the venue for screening the Pacquiao-Bradley match . We have an existing and valid occupancy permit granted by City Hall . "