'Hawaii Five-0' star bounces back after injury and addiction to ...
http://entertainment.inquirer.net/44503/hawaii-five-0-star-bounces-back-after-injury-and-addiction-to-painkillers

los angeles -- " i 'm doing great now , " said alex o'loughlin in an interview in la last wednesday . he spoke for the first time about his break from his tv show , " hawaii five-0 , " after checking into rehab last march .  the actor , looking fit , tan and sporting a full beard , underwent supervised treatment for prescription pain medication due to injuries he sustained while doing the hit cbs series .  " i got hurt pretty bad on the show and i ended up taking painkillers to get to work , " said the actor who plays steve mcgarrett in the successful reboot of the show that originally starred jack lord . " i had trouble getting off them . that 's as complicated as it gets . "  advertisement  alex added that he " gets knocked around a lot on the show . i do a lot of my own stunts and i have done so from the beginning . i am not 20-something anymore as you can see from the dusting of the australian actor admitted : " it was really difficult for me to be away . the hardest part was like when something is so enormous in your life -- i 'm at work 14 hours every day -- and then all of a sudden , you 're not at work . i got a lot of letters and messages from people saying , ' where are you ? ' or ' it 's so weird not to see you in the show . ' "  like nothing happened  o'loughlin on the day of the inquirer interview photo by ruben v. nepales  being away from the set has made alex realize a few things . " probably the biggest thing is how responsible for the show i actually feel , " he said . " i do n't know if that 's my job to feel that way or whatever . "  he gushed : " personally , i 'm fantastic . it 's like nothing happened . i am still doing physical therapy three times a week . i 'm back and doing lots of jiu that stuff . i just have to say no to some of the stunts that i love doing so much . i enjoy doing that stuff but i 've learned to let the stuntmen do those . "  blessed with aussie humor , alex 's face lit up when asked about his fans . " i 've got really fantastic fans from all over the world , " he said . " one of the errors of my career was doing a vampire show ( ' moonlight ' ) . the fans that i got from that show are very committed . they will never ever see me as anything other than mick st. john . "  asked about the strange gifts he gets in his fan mail , alex smiled as he revealed , " i receive underwear -- some clean , some not . no joke . my assistant who helps me with my fan mail constantly threatens to quit because of what we get sent ... more from the europeans ... avant-garde type germans , french , dutch ... i see the amsterdam postmark and i ... "  his kind of gal  as for the kind of woman he goes for , alex said : " she has to be smart and funny . funny is really important . if a day goes by and we have n't been laughing , then i get really sad . life is so ridiculous that if you ca n't see the irony of it , you 're going to have a really hard time while you 're here . brains and common interests are important , too . i need to be able to admire the woman i 'm with and to look up to her . and for her to have the things that i want to have more of in myself , like integrity and dignity . i want to have an equal partner . i do n't want to be a boss and i do n't want to be too much like an underling , either . i want to be right there with her . "  for " hawaii five-0 " fans , alex offered some hints as to what to expect : flips the whole game on its head . everything 's changed . the nature of everything he thought about that had been going on , he 's got to go back and reevaluate not only how he feels about everything but also of the information that he 's had . all of the clues that he 's been following , this investigation that 's ongoing about the death of his parents , who 's behind it and who 's filtering the information . "  he cited that " mcgarrett is such a strange character to play . over the last couple of years , we 've found , especially with his relationship to danno ( scott caan 's character ) , more comedy and bits of chemistry to break up that hard military kind of backbone . but mcgarrett is still this guy who gets locked in on something . nothing will stop him . this is going to complicate his world even more . he 's probably going to become even more paranoid and even more difficult for danno and the other guys to work with , which also to it . "  island fever ? not !  alex has no complaints about working in what many consider is paradise . " i think the reason i 'm so comfortable in hawaii is because i leave a lot , " he explained . " i love it there . i own a house there . my son ( saxon ) is with me and he goes to school there . i do n't get island fever because , like i said , i leave a lot . "  his son , saxon , is almost 15 and very athletic , said alex . " i 've been promising to take him snowboarding his whole life which essentially makes me a neglectful parent , does n't it ? because it took me 15 years to do it . i 've taken him to do virtually everything else . he surfs every day . he does a lot of stuff but he 's like , ' we got to go snowboarding . ' i thought , ok , since it has taken me so long , i 'm going is really good . i took him to charmonix ( france ) . he did great . he snowboarded for four days . i snowboarded for about a day and a half and then spent the next two days with ice packs on my hips . i had a great time . i love europe . i do n't speak a lick of french but i speak a bit of italian . i can get through italy better than i get through the rest of europe .  " hawaii five-0 " also stars daniel dae kim , grace park and masi oka . " scotty comes back to la , " alex replied when asked about how his costars spend their breaks from shooting . " he is doing a play here in la . this is his home and i feel that he 's more comfortable in la than he does over there . i think grace might feel the same about canada . she goes back when she gets the chance . daniel lives in hawaii and is building a house there at the moment . we 've character has different arcs . we come together and work as a team . "