Malik calls for probe into sacking of man who expelled him from flight
http://www.pakistantoday.com.pk/2014/10/03/national/malik-calls-for-probe-into-sacking-of-man-who-expelled-him-from-flight/

malik calls for probe into sacking of man who expelled him from flight  senator rehman malik says he has asked for a parliamentary committee to investigate allegations that he politically influenced the job termination of a man who led and filmed his expulsion from a pia flight .  the video clip , filmed by former gerry 's group general manager arjumand azhar hussain and showing irate passengers expelling malik for a delay of a pia flight , had gone viral on the social media .  hussain was fired from his job at the gerry 's group earlier this week , with rumours circulating that the termination was the result of political pressure exerted by senator malik , who was the federal interior minister from 2008 to 2013 during the pakistan people 's party ( ppp ) led government .  malik took to social media early friday , tweeting a letter he said he has written to the senate chairman asking him to form a parliamentary committee to probe the media reports and ' false allegations ' against him .  " i would and electronic media reports wherein a false allegation has been levelled that i got arjumand azhar terminated from his job by using my political pressure , " he writes in the letter addressed to the senate chairman .  " i had earlier stated in the media that i have no role whatsoever in his termination . i would like to request you to kindly have the following investigated by a parliamentary committee to bring the real facts in front of the public , " writes malik .  he further asks the committee to determine the " real facts " behind hussain 's termination , and to ascertain if any political pressure or influence was exerted by him for hussain 's termination .  malik also tweeted two other similar letters -- one addressed to hussain expressing his sympathies over his termination and offering legal help , and the other asking the chairman of the travel agents association of pakistan ( taap ) to investigate the matter .  earlier this week , gerry 's group denied that the sacking was due to political influence or that it had anything " purely based on merit " .  in a post on facebook , gerry group said hussain " was a new employee whose services were subject to successful completion of probation and his performance was under review at which point the company decided not to confirm his appointment " .  " we realise that the timings of his employment probation and his video recording are not too distant hence arjumand hussain has used this to politicise the matter to his advantage , " said the gerry 's group .  hussain has not yet responded to malik 's offer of help or call for an investigation into the allegations .