Dominican Republic teen at center of abortion debate dies from ...
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/dominican-republic-teen-at-center-of-abortion-debate-dies-from-leukemia-complications/

Resources  American teens are n't making babies like they used to . In fact , the birth rate among teens 15 to 19 years of age fell to a record low in 2009 , according to new data released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Of course , teens are a lot more likely to become moms in some states than in others . Which state has the highest teen birth rate ? Keep clicking find out - and see 14 states that were n't far behind ...  ( CBS News ) A pregnant Dominican Republic teenager who was at the center of the country 's abortion debate passed away on Friday .  Dr. Antonio Cabrera , the legal representative for Semma Hospital in Santo Domingo , told CNN that the 16-year-old teenager died from complications from acute leukemia . She is not being named for privacy reasons .  The girl -- nicknamed Esperanza by the local media -- was nine weeks pregnant when she was diagnosed with the disease , CNN reported . Unfortunately , the life-saving chemotherapy she of anti-abortion law Article 37 of the Dominican Republic constitution . Specifically , it states " the right to life is inviolable from the moment of conception and until death . "  " My daughter 's life is first . I know that abortion is a sin and that it goes against the law ... but my daughter 's health is first , " Rosa Hernandez , the girl 's mother , told CNN .  After discussions with the family , representatives from the Dominican Ministry of Health , the Dominican Medical College and the hospital , the girl was able to receive treatment 20 days after she was admitted to the hospital .  According to Cabrera , the teen did not respond to chemotherapy and rejected a blood transfusion on Thursday . She then suffered a miscarriage at 13 weeks on Friday and went into cardiac arrest , and doctors were not able to revive her .  " They have killed me , I 'm dead , dead . I 'm nothing , " her mother said to CNN . " She was the reason for died . Let the world know that Rosa is dead . "  Many in the Dominican Republic were outraged about the delay in treatment . In an editorial written in one of the country 's newspapers , El Nacional , Dr. Liliam Fondeuer argued that this case was not the same as abortion since the procedures were necessary to save the mother 's life . Fondeuer is credited with bringing national attention to the case .  " Defending people 's lives is a supreme value , " Fondeuer wrote . " While our authorities defend the life of an embryo over the life of ' little Esperanza , ' we are not working at reducing maternal mortality . If the effects of chemotherapy undermine the product of conception , it is a lesser evil . The first thing people : This is an accredited health center . How is it possible that they would let a person die if there was an opportunity to receive treatment ? "  In a statement issued by the Dominican Republic 's Colectiva Mujer y Salud ( " The Collective for Women and 's need for a " therapeutic abortion , " the medical term for an abortion performed to save the mother 's life , was ignored because of religious beliefs that block a woman 's right to live .  " Esperanza has died . Today is a day of mourning and shame for the country . They were aware that her pregnancy put her at higher risk , but they preferred to risk her life and sacrifice instead of giving her a therapeutic abortion . What was done to Esperanza constitutes an act of torture , cruel and inhumane , " they argued .