Steve Winwood Plots Deluxe 'Arc of a Diver' Release
http://ultimateclassicrock.com/steve-winwood-plots-deluxe-arc-of-a-diver-release/

steve winwood plots deluxe ' arc of a diver ' release  steve winwood 's classic 1980 record , ' arc of a diver , ' is getting the deluxe reissue . the second disc reports that the updated version will come with a bonus disc that includes a number of extra goodies .  the updated release , due sept. 24 in the u.k. , will include three additional tracks . the edited u.s. single version of the ' arc of a diver ' title track , a 2010 edit of ' spanish dancer , ' and the u.k. 12-inch instrumental version of ' night train ' are all new extras for the release . plus , the fourth track on the bonus disc is a bbc radio 2 documentary entitled ' arc of a diver : the steve winwood story . '  the disc was recorded at winwood 's home studio on a farm in gloucestershire . it was best known for the breakout single ' while you see a chance . ' the album peaked at no. 3 on the billboard 200 , winwood 's second solo release found the musician playing acoustic and electric guitars , bass , keyboards , synthesizers , drums and percussion , as well as writing or co-writing the lyrics for every single song on the disc . fans can also look for new liner notes as part of this updated package , with journalist and bbc presenter david hepworth penning the critical info for the disc .  welcome back to ultimate classic rock  it appears that you already have an account created within our vip network of sites on . to keep your personal information safe , we need to verify that it 's really you . to activate your account , please confirm your password . when you have confirmed your password , you will be able to log in through facebook on both sites .  welcome back to ultimate classic rock  it appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . to connect your existing account just click on the account activation button below . you will maintain your existing vip profile . after you do this , : **25;689;toolong using your original account information .