Gonorrhea becoming resistant to last available class of antibiotics
http://www.cleveland.com/healthfit/index.ssf/2012/08/gonorrhea_becoming_resistant_t.html

Gonorrhea becoming resistant to last available class of antibiotics  Comstock Images Gonorrhea used to be easily treated with a single pill . Now , to delay resistance to the last antibiotic available to treat it , the CDC is recommending against the oral drug and pushing an injectable antibiotic in its place .  CLEVELAND , Ohio-- There may soon come a time when there is no effective treatment available for gonorrhea , a sexually transmitted infection , or STI , that until recently had been easily cured with oral antibiotics .  Resistance to the last class of antibiotics available to treat the disease has been showing up in populations around the world , and will likely soon follow in the United States .  " We believe it is only a matter of time until gonorrhea develops resistance to this last remaining treatment option , " said Dr.Gail Bolan , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 's Division of STD Prevention in a telebriefing recentlyannouncing new treatment guidelines for gonorrhea .  The CDC is now discouraging the use of an disease . The agency is instead advocating the use of an injectable drug in the same antibiotic class , called ceftriaxone , in combination with one oftwo other oral antibiotics ( azithromycin ordoxycycline ) .  The CDC hopes the change will help delay the development of resistance in the United States .  Gonorrhea , which classically causes burning and pain during urination , is the second most commonly reported infectious disease in the United States behind chlamydia , which dwarfs gonorrhea cases by a ratio of more than 4-to-1 . About 309,000 cases of gonorrheawere reported in 2010 nationally , and 2,700 of those cases were in Cuyahoga County , according to the CDCand the Cuyahoga County Board of Health .  Because the infection often causes mild or vague symptoms such as vaginaldischarge in women , or no symptoms at all , epidemiologists estimate that there are probably more than twice as many cases in the population as are reported .  Untreated infection in women can lead to serious side effects including pelvic inflammatory disease ( pain in the pelvis caused by infection of the uterus , chronic pelvic pain and miscarriage , said Dr.Ann Avery , an infectious-disease specialist at MetroHealth Medical Center .  The current treatment regimen , a single oral dose of an antibiotic , has been relatively easy to administer to patients . In some states , doctors can provide the patient with a dose of the antibiotic for the partner or write a prescription for a sexual partner who is reluctant to see a doctor but is also likely infected .  Anyone who takes an oral dose of antibiotic rather thanthe injectable treatment needs to be seen by a doctor a week afterward to see if his or herinfection has cleared and to be checked for antibiotic resistance .  The bacteria that causes gonorrhea , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , is notoriously good at adapting to avoid our attempts to kill it , said Dr. Robert Bonomo , professor of medicine , pharmacology , molecular biology and microbiology at Case Western Reserve University .  " Superstrains " of gonorrhea resistant to penicillin and tetracycline cropped up in the 1970s and ' 80s and to a class of drugs called fluoroquinolones , year , a Japanese research group announced the discovery of a strain of gonorrhea that ca n't be killed by cephalosporins , the last class of antibiotics available . The strain , called H041 , was limited to a few people at the time , but has since spread to several other countries .  In the United States at the same time , the CDC released a report that showed a decrease in susceptibility of gonorrhea samples taken from sites across the country to cephalosporins . Resistance is measured with something called minimum inhibitory concentrations , or MICs -- an elevated MIC means it takes a higher dose of the drug to kill the bug .  While there were very few samples that showed a decreased susceptibility to cefixime at the time -- only 0.11 percent -- this number was up from only 0.02 percent during the last sampling period three years earlier . Now , that percentage is up to 1.5 percent for cefixime , and has increased from 0 percent to 0.4 percent for the injectable antibiotic ceftriaxone .  " This is a clear warning sign , " Dr.Robert Kirkcaldy , medical epidemiologist with the CDC 's Division of STD Prevention , said in the telebriefing .  The most prominent MIC increases were in samples taken from the Western United States and from gay and bisexual men , a pattern seen when resistance to fluoroquinolone developed in the mid 2000s .  But today , there are no other options left to fight the bacteria if the cephalosporins fail .  That 's why new drugs are so important , the CDC 's Bolan said .  " New treatments are urgently needed , and will ultimately be our best defense against the threat of the emergence of untreatable gonorrhea , " she said .  The CDC is urging the private sector to prioritize the discovery of new treatments , as there is only one new drug treatment currently in the pharmaceutical pipeline and only one clinical trial under way to test existing drugs against the infection .  Avery 's recommendations in the meantime are pretty low-tech :  " Do n't get it , and you do n't have to worry about it and have only one partner . Get tested . "  Follow Us  cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group . All rights reserved ( About Us ) . The material on this site may not be reproduced , distributed , transmitted , cached or otherwise used , except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC.