Juicy Tales From Heart's Ann and Nancy Wilson
http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/juicy-tales-from-hearts-ann-and-nancy-wilson-20120911

about the coverwall  from john and yoko to miley cyrus , annie leibovitz to david lachapelle , the cover of rolling stone has always been an art form in its own right . now you can explore all our covers , and read full articles from classic issues dating back to our 1967 launch in our brand-new cover wall . explore the coverwall ?  after four decades and 30 million albums sold , ann and nancy wilson have decided to tell their story . this week kicking &amp; dreaming : a story of heart , soul and rock &amp; roll ( harpercollins ) hits shelves . with co-author charles cross ( heavier than heaven : a biography of kurt cobain ) , the wilson sisters dish on heart 's formative years , the inspirations behind their hits and their personal travails , along with some sordid rock gossip . here are some of the more notable -- and curious -- stories revealed :  during ann 's junior year in high school , their parents became aware that their daughters were regularly smoking pot . one night after dinner , the wilson parents suggested that the whole family toke together . ann recalls it being rather embarrassing : " it was n't the best pot , but i was n't about to share my connection with my parents . "  " crazy on you " was inspired by ann 's first serious romance , with michael fischer , who would soon become heart 's iron-fisted manager . the pair shacked up on a hippie commune in canada . wilson writes that while the lyrics " were straight out of the scenes of wild sexuality that went on in the cottage , " they were also about her feminist awakening and finding empowerment through her music .  during heart 's earliest incarnation they were primarily a cover band , cementing their reputation in the vancouver club scene with their set of led zeppelin songs . in march 1975 , heart was onstage performing " stairway to heaven " when zeppelin themselves walked in , fresh from their show at the pacific coliseum . wilson writes that the foursome seemed oblivious , disappearing into the club " his doctor " before promptly passing out .  when nancy was on location with her then-husband ( and former rolling stone scribe ) cameron crowe while he was directing the 2001 bomb vanilla sky , the film 's star , tom cruise , gave the couple a personally guided tour of scientology 's celebrity centre .  the early radio success of " magic man " was paid for with hookers and cocaine . the band 's publicist would ferry the wilson sisters to radio appearances where they would meet the dj , do a station id and then be told to go wait outside . according to nancy , " when we were out of the way , he 'd pass the dj a gram of cocaine or the number of a hooker he 'd lined up and say ' she 's yours , on heart . ' it was n't until years later that the wilson sisters found out about the shady dealings that had gone on behind their backs .  the photo negative for a topless picture of ann wilson , taken surreptitiously by annie when a shoot with the photographer for the band 's bebe le strange-era rolling stone cover went south , the band demanded the famed rock photographer destroy her copy ; when she refused , heart took her to court . the judge ordered the negative to be kept in a safe deposit box that could only be opened with two keys -- one belonging to wilson and the other to leibovitz -- insuring it would never see the light of day .  in the fall of 1982 , heart had a brush with the legendary ego of john cougar mellencamp . the young singer was opening the band 's tour behind private audition , heart 's first album that was n't an immediate million-seller , when mellencamp 's " jack and diane " went to number one . he came to the band with a proposition : " seeing as your album is a turkey and mine is a hit , care to swap places ? " the wilson sisters declined , reminding him that the tour had sold out before he 'd even been announced as the opening act , alex and eddie , in their own fumbling , wasted way , suggested a four-way-of-sorts between them . the sisters declined , but later that night , when nancy learned that eddie did n't own an acoustic guitar she was incredulous , and she gave him one of her own before sending him on his way . the next morning , after a night-long binge , he called her hotel room and serenaded her over the phone .