Should You Bother Obscuring Your License Plates In Photos?
http://jalopnik.com/5941797/should-you-bother-obscuring-your-license-plates-in-photos

If you 're reading this now , there 's great chance that you spend far too many of your waking hours looking at pictures of cars online . Which means you 've probably noticed that many of those images have their license tags obscured in some way . Being the inquisitive ( likely ) mammal that you are , you 've probably wondered why the license plate is obscured , and if it 's actually a good idea .  At least , I fit that description . Here at Jalopnik , we have n't had a policy to obscure license plate images -- I left them intact in , say , my Classicreviews -- but it 's worth investigating this further .  Some cars are so beautiful that it hits you like a canned ham fired from a cannon . The original ... Read more Read more  The general thinking behind pixellating or blurring or covering the license plates is based on the idea that with your license plate number , more information can be revealed about the car 's owner , without his is that the tags are already on open , public view . Why should it matter if they 're in a picture , when they 're normally not hidden , anyway ?  A note to Craigslist photographers : If you 're using an entire person in lieu of Scotch tape to ... Read more Read more  In the interest of full disclosure , I 'll reveal my thoughts coming into this . I was firmly in the **36;0;TOOLONG camp . To such a degree that I have a pair of Vans with my Beetle 's license plate number embroidered on the back . Also , it helps that I 'm so irritating that I 'm almost kidnap-proof , even if someone could find out where I lived from my car 's tags . But , I do have a wife and son far less annoying than myself , so I better get to the bottom of this .  A simple Google search reveals plenty of sites that offer ways to find out information based on license plate numbers . Hell , even our Gawk-bro site LifeHacker did an trying to track down a bad driver or someone who keeps leaving their car ... Read more Read more  But that 's the internet -- I wanted the advice of someone who 's job it is to actually know what 's what with this stuff , and , ideally , have a uniform . So I called Officer Mosqueda of the California Highway Patrol and asked him , flat out , what information can people get from a license plate , and , as a CHP officer , would you suggest obscuring the plate ?  The truth is you can find out a lot from someone 's license tags . Officer Mosqueda said that there are both legal and illegal ways to find a person 's name , address , the registration and fee history of the car , and more . All this information can be made available to anyone , either through the DMV or through paid services , many of which are online .  For example , in California , to go through the DMV , one would fill out an INF 70 form , plate number . The form does list a set of permissible uses , such as driver safety , theft , hiring commercial drivers , etc. but if someone 's the sort of perv that wants a person 's license information so they can masturbate outside their bedroom window , I do n't think they 'd have much issue lying on the form .  This method is still an improvement over how it used to be . Prior to 1994 , it was easier to get home addresses from DMV records , and this was the method by which the man who murdered Rebecca Schaeffer , an actress from the 90s television show My Sister Sam , got her home address and related information . This murder led to the creation of the Drivers ' Privacy Protection Act of 1994 .  Private , paid services do n't even care if you 're a creepy murderer or not -- they just take your money and send you the information . Now , this information is n't your blood type and a list of your deepest , most secretest fears , but  As for the argument that your plate is already visible to anyone walking by your car , that 's certainly true . It 's just that the internet can so vastly expand the number of people able to see your license plate that it may become an issue . Still , as Officer Mosqueda told me with a certain degree of poetry , " You ca n't blur out real life . " Sage words , Officer .  Officer Mosqueda 's final advice ? You may as well obscure your license plate , just to be safe . His attitude was that while it 's not likely the information would be found and misused , it could happen .  So , I 'm proposing a couple of little rules that I plan to live by , and will suggest that these be made Jalopnik policy :  * If you take a picture of a car that is not yours , and you have not made any arrangements with the owner , then it is the photographer 's responsibility to obscure the plates .  * If you are placing your car in a situation or location where it can be reasonably expected that it will be photographed ( at a car show , on the set of a film shoot , etc. ) then it is the owner 's responsibility to obscure the license plates if desired , by physical means or electronic in the case of an owner-created photo .  Oh , and if the license plate in question is a really funny or ironic personalized plate , or an inadvertently dirty one , I reserve the right to ignore all these good rules . Because a penis joke on a license plate or something trumps all laws .