How To Get Rid Of The Hiccups: Which Tricks Really Work?
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/11/get-rid-hiccups-cures_n_1871405.html

there may be some survival benefit to hiccups : in the process , the windpipe is closed off , according to dr. oz , so you ca n't breathe food particles into the lungs .  albeit annoying , hiccups are rarely much of a health concern , and most of the time stop on their own in a matter of minutes . but in rare cases , hiccups have lasted longer -- and have even been signifiers of a more serious health issue . one patient hiccuped continually for 60 years , according to " today . " a man who claimed to have hiccuped for three years straight was found to have a tumor pinching nerves that controlled his breathing , the sun reported . and earlier this year , a man with a nonstop case of the hiccups was found to have actually suffered a small heart attack .  you likely have your own favorite method for getting rid of the hiccups when you really just ca n't wait them out . you probably even have a remedy you swear works 100 -- but there 's really only anecdotal evidence that any of these methods truly works . we asked brian udermann , ph.d. , an exercise and sports science professor at the university of wisconsin la crosse and the author of " 25 ways to cure the hiccups : uncovering the truth behind 101 common myths and misconceptions " to take a few guesses .  close  ?  get rid of hiccups  of  ?  ?  there are seemingly endless hiccup remedies that involve some sort of alternate breathing method , from holding your breath to taking deep breaths to holding your breath while plugging your ears . " anything you do in regard to your breath , it 's possible that you could disrupt that nerve impulse from the brain to the diaphragm so you stop the hiccups , " says udermann . a little extra carbon dioxide may also help to relax the diaphragm , according to dr. oz , although we do n't know exactly why . flickr photo by camera on autopilot  there may be even more claims of water-based ways to stop many we 've heard : drink from the opposite side of the glass , drink through a straw ( with and without plugging your ears ) , drink through a napkin or towel and drink a big glass of water without stopping . swallowing -- which , when you think about it , is a temporary change in your breathing , says udermann -- may override those diaphragm spasms , according to reader 's digest canada . " it does n't matter if you drink upside down or sideways or from a spoon , " says udermann . " it 's that act that could be disruptive . " flickr photo by eschipul  " what works in our house is a teaspoon of sugar , " says udermann . " you eat it , and they 're gone , 99 percent of the time . " others swear by a spoonful of peanut butter or ice cream . we 've even heard biting into a slice of lemon coated in sugar and bitters can do the trick . but there 's not likely anything specific about the peanut butter or . like with drinking and breathing tricks , eating has the potential to affect your breath and therefore your diaphragm , says udermann . we ca n't help but remind you though that that spoonful of sugar is just that , a spoon full of sugar , and it counts , calorically . women should aim to eat fewer than 5 teaspoons of sugar a day , men 9 and kids about 3 , so you might want to try other remedies first !  when you stick out or even pull on your tongue , you stimulate a part of the throat connected to the nasal passage called the nasopharynx and the opening between the vocal cords , which may offer some relief . flickr photo by xlordashx  a little scare could work for two reasons . first of all , it 's likely to change your breathing cycle -- hear that gasp you just made ? it may also work as a mental distraction , which seems to quell hiccups . want proof ? have someone ask you to hiccup on the spot , and see what happens also suggests squeezing your palm -- hard -- to distract your nervous system away from hiccuping to the sensation of mild pain instead . this may work similarly to the way that slapping or pinching yourself can distract from an itchy mosquito bite .