Blind Chef Christine Ha Crowned 'MasterChef' in Finale
http://abcnews.go.com/Entertainment/masterchef-finale-blind-chef-christine-ha-wins-season/story?id=17210282

Blind Chef Christine Ha Crowned ' MasterChef ' in Finale  From the moment she took those first tentative steps onto the national stage , chef Christine Ha captured America 's heart .  During Monday night 's season 3 " MasterChef " finale , Ha won the title , $250,000 grand prize and a cookbook deal , beating out Josh Marks and about 100 other chefs . But that 's not what makes her so inspiring . Ha is blind -- the first blind contestant on the show .  " I think there are a lot of people who completely discounted me , " Ha told " Nightline . " " They think I 'm there as a TV gimmick for ratings . People will say , ' what is she doing ? Is she going to cut her finger off ? ' But I cook at home for years without vision , so if I can do it at home I do n't see why I ca n't prove to everyone else I can do it on national TV . "  Week after on her graduate degree in creative writing , managed to whip up culinary masterpieces with only her sense of taste , smell and touch to guide her . The judges did allow her to use her aide , Cindy , but she did not cut or taste Ha 's food .  " She 's basically my eyes , " Ha said .  Aside from that , Ha faced the same time constraints , the same stress and the same withering criticism from the other judges , including notoriously tough chef Gordon Ramsey of " Hell 's Kitchen " fame . She compared competing on " MasterChef " to pledging a sorority .  " I could n't see what anyone else was doing , I was solely focused on myself , and I think that helped me . It gave me an advantage , " she said . " When I came out of it , it was most stressful intense experience of her life , it was amazing . "  Ha said she is able to compete mainly because she was not born blind . She nearly being diagnosed with an auto-immune disease that attacks the optic nerves .  " I see shadows , " Ha said . " I think the best way for me to describe it is , if you were to come out of a really hot shower and looked into a really steamy mirror , that fogginess is what I see . "  But Ha , who has no professional culinary training , said she was determined not to let blindness force her to give it up .  " When I lost my vision , there was one time , I tried to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich , " she said . " I recall getting it all over the counter . I just started crying and was wondering if I would ever cook again . "  But she did more than pick herself up off the counter . She started her own blog , theblindcook.com , which is how the producers of " MasterChef " discovered her .  Ha 's kitchen is decked out with a few special tools to help her along : , and oven mitts so large they look like they belong to an astronaut , but they keep her from getting burned .  But her favorite part of cooking is plating , the presentation of food , which Ha does from memory .  " I do remember colors and I can visualize things , " she said . " I know I like to plate everything on white . The color pops out , looks better . "  " I picture the colors of food -- this needs some green , this needs some red , " she continued . " That 's how I think about garnish . I just feel my way through that plate and that 's how I present . "  Now an official " MasterChef , " Ha said her next dream is to open her own ice cream store and a pub .  " I just want people to realize that they have it in themselves if they really want to , " she said . " If they have that passion , that fire , that drive , that to really achieve what you want and prove yourself to the world . Everyone is very capable . Much more capable than they think they are . "