Can a Burst of UV Bust Hospital-Borne Infections?
http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/can-a-burst-of-uv-bust-hospital-borne-infections/

Nasty Clostridium difficile can lurk on door handles and other surfaces , leading to severe intestinal distress ; Acinetobacter can also survive in the open air , threatening to cause pneumonia , urinary tract infections and blood infections ; and vancomycin-resistant Enterococci ( VRE ) is tough to beat with other drugs and can infect wound and catheter sites , as well as the bloodstream . Even a thorough traditional cleaning by staff , with disinfecting sprays , can leave spots untouched -- and dangerously contaminated .  A new study finds that a certain frequency of ultraviolet ( UV ) light can kill almost all of these nasty bugs from at least the surfaces of a hospital room -- even when not directly exposed to the light .  A team of researchers sampled five high-contact areas in hospital bedrooms and bathrooms ( such as bed rails , toilets and remote controls ) where patients with C. difficile , Acinetobacter or VRE infections had been staying . They then brought in a machine outfitted with eight bulbs to emit short-wave UV radiation ( UV-C ) for the same locations for any persisting bacteria or spores .  " We were able to demonstrate that we could achieve well over 90 percent reduction in each of those three bad bugs after using the UV light , " Deverick Anderson , co-director of the Duke Infection Control Outreach Network , and study collaborator , said during a media briefing call earlier this week . Even shadowed surfaces that escaped direct UV exposure demonstrated this drastic reduction in bacteria . The findings were presented October 18 at IDWeek , a meeting to highlight progress in the fight against infectious diseases , in San Diego .  UV-C radiation has already been deployed by food processors and utilitiesto kill bugs in food and water , respectively -- and it is also used to sterilize some medical equipment . Putting it to use for larger targets -- such as hospital rooms -- might become a new standard step in healthcare disinfection . The researchers did not , however , compare the light 's effectiveness with that of standard cleaning procedures . " We would never propose that the UV light be the a prepared statement . " But in an era of increasing antibiotic resistance , it could become an important addition to hospitals ' arsenal . "  Previous work had shown that UV-C can also cut down on MRSA ( methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ) in hospital rooms . " We have a solid foundation to show that this approach succeeds in both experimental and real-world conditions , " Anderson said in a prepared statement . " Now it 's time to see if we can demonstrate that it indeed decreases the rate of infections among patients . " After all , it would be nice to be rid of our acquired infection risk in a flash .