Assaying The Legacy Of 'The Big Screen'
http://www.npr.org/2012/10/18/162636108/assaying-the-legacy-of-the-big-screen

" The fact is I am quite happy in a movie , even a bad movie , " admits Binx Bolling , the hero of Walker Percy 's 1961 novel The Moviegoer . It 's the same for a lot of us -- cinema affects us in ways we do n't always understand , and even the worst films appeal to our nostalgia and sense memories in manners that defy the normal rules of taste and logic . ( Currently , on my DVR : La Dolce Vita , a classic I know I should see at some point , and Gymkata , a truly terrible 1985 martial-arts flick I 've watched a dozen times . Guess which one I 'm going to turn on tonight ? )  In The Big Screen , British-American film critic and historian David Thomson attempts to answer some fundamental questions about the world 's favorite hobby . How do we relate to the movies ? " The cinema is the embodiment of ' let there be light , ' " he writes . But where does the light come from Of course , these are difficult and possibly even unanswerable questions . But Thomson -- arguably the world 's most intelligent student of the cinema -- proves remarkably up to the task . The Big Screen is beautiful and expansive , " a love letter to a lost love " that has the capacity to change the way we look at film .  Thomson 's book is essentially a collection of new essays , covering movies from D.W. Griffith 's brilliant but notoriously racist The Birth of a Nation to the critically reviled Adam Sandler " comedy " Jack and Jill . While there 's not an even remotely boring chapter in the book , the centerpiece of the volume is formed of two long essays , " Sunset and Change " and " Film Studies , " in which Thomson jumps from topic to topic breathlessly , almost suddenly , but with transitions that somehow make more sense than they should .  David Thomson is the author of more than 20 books , including Have You Seen ... ? : A Personal Introduction to 1,000 Films and The and Giroux hide caption  toggle caption Lucy Gray/Farrar , Straus and Giroux  David Thomson is the author of more than 20 books , including Have You Seen ... ? : A Personal Introduction to 1,000 Films and The New Biographical Dictionary of Film .  Lucy Gray/Farrar , Straus and Giroux  It 's like listening for an hour to a smart , hyperactive friend discuss the art he loves the most ; the downloading of information leaves you a little exhausted but mostly elated . Thomson has a gift for making his original observations sound almost obvious -- film noir , he writes , " is the one genre that admits we 'll lose , " and Casablanca is " fake , foolish and fanciful beyond belief " but is still " the best fun . "  And while he 's unafraid to dive into the canons of some of cinema 's most celebrated but challenging directors -- Michelangelo Antonioni and Ingmar Bergman are both discussed -- he takes a refreshingly democratic view . The Passion of Joan of Arc and Alvin and the Chipmunks : The Ten Commandments and Deep Throat . He thoughtfully , if grudgingly , considers the impact of hardcore pornography on viewers ( " It resembles a weekend in Las Vegas , and breeds as many dismayed losers " ) and takes on the mediocre-at-best career of filmmaker George Lucas ( " a great entrepreneur , and a marker of industry ... with a contented lack of personality " ) .  But all of the history , all of the opinion , is in service of answering those previously stated questions . And these : What does film do to us ? Does it isolate us or contribute to a common cultural language ? There are no sure-thing conclusions in art , but Thomson 's guess is as good as any : We watch movies to see ourselves from unrealistic angles , because we crave the feeling of desire , and we love the artifice , the uncertainty . " It 's an impossible venture , " Thomson writes , " but it is a legacy of American film -- the gift of unreality . " Or , in the words of to live . " Movies , for many of us , are life , and for about 90 minutes , in the comforting darkness of a theater , we can pretend that nothing will ever end .