For Western Union Business Solutions's Global Head of Sales ...
http://www.fastcompany.com/3002937/western-union-business-solutionss-global-head-sales-management-can-mean-juggling

a new job or venture is as terrifying as it is exhilarating , especially if you 're a manager . what are the best ways to navigate a big transition ? we asked five leaders to reveal what they learned during a recent power move . then , we tapped the leadership experts at ddi* to assess how our fearless leaders have handled their staff ( and themselves ) amid the chaos .  global head of sales , western union business solutions agiasotis shot up the corporate chain when western union acquired his previous employer , travelex global business payments . he is now responsible for a staff of 600 , as well as his family 's relocation from sydney to london .  self-assessment : " the big change for me has been coming into a public company from a private one . it 's an entirely different set of pressures . a publicly listed company has a board that defines the way that it thinks about the world and identifies the pressures that it is under . i 've never had to look through 's a new way of communicating .  i have had my fair share of unexpected situations that have been distracting . i 'm dealing with the nitty-gritty of moving and settling into a new country . i 'm getting up to speed with the current status of business in other geographies that i had n't had much to do with historically . at this stage , i feel like a juggler who is trying to set a new record for how many things he can keep up in the air , and i 'm throwing them a little higher than normal . "  ddi assessment : kerry needs to identify high-level people who have a stake in the outcome of his work . he should cultivate them as partners and demonstrate openness to their ideas . and he should resist the temptation to be the sole author of any plans . kerry 's strength in the past has been the ability to develop strategies alone . his job now is to build a reputation as the person who brings key people together to make better decisions .  agiasotis be involved in all aspects , from what needs to be done to how it should be done . the challenge for me now is to create an environment where people are empowered and motivated enough to execute on their own . of all the adjustments i have to make , this has been the hardest . "