Cyber Monday Deals Lure More Shoppers on Mobile Devices
http://abcnews.go.com/Business/record-number-shoppers-buy-cyber-monday-deals-mobile/story?id=17808731

cyber monday deals lure more shoppers on mobile devices  early estimates of cyber monday , the biggest online shopping day of the year , showed sales may reach $2 billion and a growing portion of that may come from the pockets of a record number of mobile shoppers .  as of 2 p.m . est , payment system paypal had a 196 percent increase in mobile payment volume on cyber monday 2012 than cyber monday 2011 . on black friday , the increase in the number of people shopping on their mobile devices was stark for paypal as well as auction site ebay , which owns paypal . on friday , there was a 153 percent increase in mobile volume transactions compared to black friday last year . paypal 's volume increased almost three-fold , 193 percent , compared to last year 's black friday .  the annual event is increasingly becoming cyber week instead of a one-day event as retailers open their arms for americans who prefer to avoid crowds and compare prices online .  shoppers are expected to spend more than , according to research firm comscore . another prediction from adobe digital index forecasts spending will reach $2 billion , as many shoppers were waiting for today 's online deals to make their purchases .  it has already been a big holiday weekend with a record $59.1 billion spent at u.s. stores and websites , according to the national retail federation .  online sales on thanksgiving day , traditionally not a popular day for online shopping , rose 32 percent from last year to $633 million , according to comscore . and online sales on black friday were up 26 percent from the same day last year , to $1.042 billion . it was the first time online sales on black friday surpassed $1 billion .  the national retail federation says 247 million shoppers hit stores and websites to cash in on savings during the holiday weekend , up 9 percent from last year . nearly two-thirds of those shoppers went to stores or hit the web on black friday .  black friday is now history along with small business saturday . now , it 's cyber tweeting in full force . verizon wireless purchased twitter 's promoted post , #cybermonday , while radio shack marketed a different deal each hour of the day with the hashtag , #24dealsin24 . at noon est , radio shack was offering a tomtom gsp navigator for $99.99 after a discount of 38 percent .  from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m . est , casual clothing and home retailer land 's end is listing door busters with the hashtag , #le12hrs .  at midnight , amazon.com was offering as much as 60 percent off a panasonic viera 55-inch tv that 's usually priced higher than $1,000 . sears is offering $430 off a maytag washer and dryer , each on sale for $399 . and kmart is offering 75 percent off diamond earrings .  " cyber monday is really all about doing your homework , and it really means looking for the really good deals , " retail analyst marshal cohen said . " if it 's a really good deal , grab it . "  but cyber monday might be losing its luster . the busiest day sales that started as early as thanksgiving day .  " look for cyber monday to be important , but not necessarily getting that same growth rate that they 've had in years past , " cohen said .  the rise in smartphones and tablets has changed consumers ' shopping habits since cyber monday 's inception seven years ago . cyber monday was first widely publicized by shop.org in 2005 to persuade shoppers to buy online , as people were still warming to e-commerce .  " there were so many deals being offered online , starting from wednesday and all the way through the weekend and now some of the money has already been spent , " cohen said .  cyber monday is also an easier alternative for people who do n't like long lines and chaos that comes with the black friday weekend . this season proved to be no different from past black friday horror stories .  a man suspected of shoplifting two dvd players from a lithonia , ga. , walmart sunday died after an altercation with two store employees and a contract security they found the employees on top of the middle-aged man , according to a police report obtained by abc news affiliate wsb-tv . when an officer bent down to handcuff the suspect , he noticed there was no resistance .  at that point , the officer noticed the suspect was bleeding from the nose and mouth , according to the report . he was transported to dekalb medical-hillandale hospital , where he was pronounced dead .  " this is truly a sad situation , " dianna gee , a walmart spokeswoman , said in a statement issued to abc news . " we do n't know all of the facts right now . we 're in the process of working with law enforcement to determine all of the facts and cooperating and providing any information we have to assist in the investigation . "  gee said the contract security guard will no longer be providing services to the retailer . the two store employees have been suspended with pay while walmart assists police in the investigation .