Literary Paris still lives in the hangouts of history's best writers
http://travel.cnn.com/literary-paris-comes-alive-hangouts-historys-best-writers-326071/

you are here  literary paris still lives in the hangouts of history 's best writers  you do n't have to be emotionally tortured or morally conflicted to follow in the footsteps of the greats in paris  by chris gould , for cnn travel 26 november , 2012  you can eat like a lord -- or at least like a pretty good writer -- at these literature-steeped paris bars and caf ? s  more than just a city for lovers , paris is also a source of inspiration to which the great writers have long gravitated .  sartre , hemingway , miller , maurras , hugo and more penned some of their greatest works in the bustling caf ? s and bars of the french capital .  here are five of the very best .  les deux magots  another of hemingway 's favorites . did the man ever stay home ?  starting out as a novelty goods store majestically overlooked by saint sulpice church on saint germain des pr ? s , les deux magots has -- post-1885 dining spots .  the iconic caf ? with its turquoise awning draws its name from the two chinese figurines on the wall , intriguing mementoes from the establishment 's previous incarnation .  over the years , they have been witnessed over the coffee-cup rims of jean paul sartre , simone de beauvoir and ernest hemingway .  to cement its place in literary folklore , the establishment has even offered its own literary prize each january since 1933 .  a favorite of breton and picasso and thus key to the surrealist art movement , les deux magots has also helped enhance france 's high-class dining image on the movie screen .  its interior , crammed with parisian charm in the shape of leather seats and shining brass rails , has graced a number of motion pictures , most memorably the 1973 comedy classic " the mad adventures of rabbi jacob . "  thankfully , unlike in that movie , the caf ? -- while packed with tourists from all nations -- is not a breeding ground for counter-revolutionaries seeking to kidnap political rivals .  it about anything , culinary or historical , and they will answer ) serving melt-in-the-mouth omelets , the freshest orange juice , and a mouthwatering array of cakes and tartes paraded daily on a giant platter .  caf ? de flore  a stone 's throw away from les deux magots is caf ? de flore , another paris landmark , easily recognized by its signature green title on a white awning .  founded " without doubt " in 1887 , according to its website , the caf ? drew its name from the statue of a petite goddess across the street .  the years just prior to 1900 saw author charles maurras put the finishing touches to " sous le signe de flore " within , while the prewar years would see apollinaire and salmon use the ground floor to edit the arts review " les soir ? es de paris . "  with the help of andr ? breton , who presumably spent entire days hopping between flore and deux magots , these pernod-fuelled collaborators would eventually spawn the dadaist movement .  l'auberge etchegorry  l'auberge etchegorry .  next , we move from the car-horn commotions of saint germain des pr ? s to the quieter surroundings of corvisart , seemingly roped in birdsong , a short distance from the head offices of le monde newspaper .  here you will find l'auberge etchegorry , a homely eatery formerly known by the more risqu ? title of " cabaret de madame gr ? goire . "  the quintessentially elegant parisian businesswoman , madame gr ? goire was easily able to charm victor hugo and beranger in the 1850s -- with the quality of her shows alone , we are informed .  a fresco inside the present-day restaurant depicts a seated hugo enjoying the show with his friends while a dubiously modestly dressed madame gr ? goire looks on .  located opposite a richly green park which is tranquility personified , the present-day etchegorry prides itself on a host of predominantly basque dishes .  among these can be found the sumptuous paupiettes de canard with foie gras and the irrepressible noix de saint-jacques , best described with the words " broiled scallop menu claims .  a small hotel adjoins the restaurant , the perfect stopover for couples determined to optimize the etchegorry experience .  la coupole  proclaiming itself as " the most famous parisian brasserie in the world , " la coupole flaunts its intriguing art deco interior to customers with only the merest hint of modesty .  packed with original paintings from the roaring twenties peeping out from between imitation marble pillars , the brasserie devotes several pages of its website to listing the sheer number of celebrities striding , hobbling and stumbling through its doors .  the latter would often end up in the establishment having first enriched the coffers of la rotonde , the nearby cinema-caf ? complex to which he claimed every taxi driver in the city would automatically take him .  today 's menu is rich in seafood , with dover sole , phyllo-wrapped prawns and oysters from ireland and normandy usually available .  all-encompassing seafood platters are on order for anywhere between ? 26 ( us$33 ) and ? 115.