100 Pounds of Cocaine, Worth $5M, Seized, 6 Arrested, in Times ...
http://www.ibtimes.com/100-pounds-cocaine-worth-5m-seized-6-arrested-times-square-hotel-drug-bust-901244

six people have been arrested in a times square hotel in a drug bust where police seized more than 100 pounds of cocaine which had a street value of $5 million , authorities announced monday .  the arrest of the six alleged cocaine traffickers occurred on oct. 25 , reports the associated press . police seized 105 pounds of cocaine from the crowne plaza hotel in new york as the suspects were leaving the hotel .  alvarado and cuevas-muniz were seen leaving the crowne plaza , each holding a suitcase . alvarado left in a bmw that was being driven by hernandez while cuevas-muniz left in a cab that was being driven by alvarez , reports pix11 . police followed the three men and later arrested them . cuevas-muniz left eight pounds of cocaine in the cab and walked back to the crowne plaza , where he was arrested with a suitcase carrying 66 pounds of cocaine , reports the new york post .  alteiry-vazquez and alverio-ruiz were arrested in the hotel room where the alleged traffickers were staying . police found plastic wrapping tickets , notes the post . a seventh possible suspect fled the scene and police were unable to apprehend the individual . according to the post , the individual was talking to cuevas-muniz at the hotel as the arrest was taking place .  alvarado , hernandez and alvarez are from the bronx , n.y. , while cuevas-muniz and alverio-ruiz are from tao baja , puerto rico . alteiry-vazquez hails from winston salem , n.c. , reports the post .  all six suspects have been charged with one count of conspiracy in the second degree , one count of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the first degree and one count of criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree , according to the city 's special narcotics prosecutor .  the post reports that four of the defendants have pleaded not guilty . alvarez is scheduled for a dec. 3 arraignment .