'Riot House' No More: A Review Of The Andaz, LA's Coolest Hotel
http://gadling.com/2012/12/11/riot-house-no-more-a-review-of-the-andaz-las-hippest-hotel/

I 'm a budget traveler who has spent more time in dives with droopy mattresses than luxury hotels with spa treatments that cost more than Suriname 's annual GDP . So on the rare occasions when I get to stay someplace truly swanky -- usually when the Priceline roulette wheel shines favorably on me or if I 'm accompanying my wife on a business trip -- I sometimes feel a bit like Jed Clampett arriving with Hillbilly family in tow in Beverly Hills .  Did I shave that day ? Is my car the cheapest one on the premises ? How much do I need to give the bellboy who is charging over to open my car door ? I had this same fish-out-of-water feeling when we pulled up to the Andaz , a luxury hotel in West Hollywood that is part of the Hyatt chain last week . But the place turned out to be very different than any other fancy hotel I 've ever stayed in .  For starters , the young man who opened our car door and took care of our suitcases on a trolley , he escorted us into the sleek , dimly lit lobby , checked us in himself and then brought us up to the room as though we were at a small B &amp; B.  " Now everything in the minibar except the alcohol is free , " he said to my surprise and puzzlement . " So all the soft drinks , bottles of water and snacks are free . "  I asked him to repeat that because I 've never heard of a free minibar before and I did n't want to get a bill for a $9 bag of chips , but I 'd heard him right . The Andaz also has free wireless Internet and serves good , free California wines from 5-7 p.m. each night . Before I gush about this place a bit more , I should point out that unlike many " reviews " of luxury hotels , this is not a paid endorsement or quid-pro-quo deal . At Gadling , we do not write about free press trips or accept other free travel perks , so you can room was stylishly decorated and had a curtained off little section in the back with a love seat , comfy chair and Ottoman . My kids immediately claimed this area as their clubhouse , but it was also useful for my wife and I after the kids went to bed .  The hotel was renovated and turned into an Andaz property , one of just nine around the world , in 2009 . Gene Autry once owned the hotel and in the ' 60s , ' 70s and ' 80s , it was known as the Riot House because rock stars used to routinely trash their rooms . John Bonham reportedly once rode his motorcycle down the hotel corridors , Keith Richards once dropped a television set from his room out onto Sunset Boulevard , and Jim Morrison lived there until he was evicted for hanging out a window by his fingertips .  Those days are long gone , but recording artists still patronize the place . A big contingent of Brits including the singer Laura Mvula was there during our stay . And they still play great music ever had the pleasure of listening to The Smiths at any other hotel I 've ever stayed at besides this one .  The Andaz has everything you might expect in a luxury hotel : incredibly comfortable beds , high-quality toiletries and linens , plus a very nice rooftop pool that offers lovely views of the area . We found the Sunset Boulevard location to be convenient but thanks to the notorious L.A. traffic , it can take a lot longer to get around than you might think .  And now for a few niggling complaints . No hotel is perfect and that includes the Andaz . I found the free wireless to be extremely slow at times and when I called down to inquire I was transferred to an off-site tech support person who suggested I pay a premium to get better speed . No thanks . The valet parking is $32 per night ( there is no self-park option ) , which is n't exactly a bargain and the sumptuous buffet breakfast is strictly expense account territory at $26 a head .  But you do n't come , you 're there for a treat and the Andaz certainly is one . Aside from the free snacks , soft drinks and wine , my other favorite perk was the selection of free newspapers . I 'm an old-school hard copy newspaper reader and the fact that the Andaz was willing to deliver copies of the New York Times , the L.A. Times and the Wall Street Journal right to my doorstop made me very happy indeed . On my last night at the Andaz , our neighbors stumbled back to their room at 2 a.m. and commenced a noisy party worthy of the hotel 's glory Riot House days . At the time , I was annoyed but in retrospect , it was a fitting end to a memorable stay .