Heritage Bank of Commerce Snags Small-Business Banker
http://www.americanbanker.com/people/heritage-bank-of-commerce-snags-small-business-banker-1055086-1.html

related link  heritage bank of commerce in san jose , calif. , has lured a veteran small-business banker .  the $1.3 billion-asset subsidiary of heritage commerce corp . ( htbk ) said this week that it has named ruth brown senior vice president and sba department manager .  brown joins heritage from summit bank in walnut creek , calif. , where she headed small-business lending . she previously held a series of small-business lending posts at first republic bank ( frc ) and bank of walnut creek , which first republic acquired in 2006 .  " ruth is a valuable addition to our team with more than 20 years of sba experience in community banking , and 10 of those years in a senior management role , " heritage bank 's chief executive walt kazcmarek said in a news release monday . " we are confident that her impressive qualifications will help us grow our sba business more aggressively , and we 're excited to welcome her to the team . "  brown is expected to have an office at heritage 's  merger activity gained steam in 2015 . total bank-deal value reached its highest level since the financial crisis as more big agreements were announced . regional banks were among the hungriest buyers , suggesting that tougher regulatory hurdles had become less of an m&amp;a deterrent than in previous years .  the banking industry had mixed opinions of the fed 's decision to boost rates . most believe 25 basis points will do little to move the needle financially , but they are apprehensive about the impact more increases will have on deposits , lending and credit quality . here is a sampling of what bankers have said in recent days .  some are on the hot seat . others are replacing legends or overseeing make-or-break initiatives ? from big mergers to product expansions to tech overhauls . these are the bankers to keep an eye on in the new year .  the presidential race is likely to overshadow most political events in 2016 as the first primary states begin voting in february . accordingly , many of the people on this list are candidates who could win chance to shape the outcome . but there are also some guaranteed players already in place whose actions will help shape banking policy in the year to come . here are the top 10 to watch .  the age of google glass may be over , but 2015 saw wearable technology emerge in more subtle forms such as watches , rings and other items that appear more trendy than geeky . the payments industry is working to make the most of this fashionable trend .  brayden mccarthy and jared hecht of fundera argue that the small business borrowers ' bill of rights , a self-regulatory document written by online small-business lenders , should serve as a template for future government regulation of the sector .