New iPad May Sport 1GB Of RAM, But Apple Will Never Say So
http://techcrunch.com/2012/03/08/new-ipad-may-sport-1gb-of-ram-but-apple-will-never-say-so/

new ipad may sport 1gb of ram , but apple will never say so  0  if you were hoping that the blitz of ipad news would end with the device 's long-awaited announcement yesterday , well , sorry . even with cupertino 's latest tablet waiting in the wings for a march 16 release , we 're all still speculating when it comes to some of the device 's particulars , and now the new ipad 's allotment of ram is getting its share of the spotlight .  according to the verge , the new ipad will indeed feature double the ram of its immediate predecessor , with a full gigabyte of memory ensconced within its aluminum frame . but why does n't apple ever talk about it ?  that apple would make the jump to 1gb for their newest post-pc poster child should n't come as a surprise . the original model launched with 256mb of ram onboard , which made for some iffy use experiences after a few software updates . the ipad 2 debuted with 512mb under the hood , only a matter of time between new features and apps have ipad 2 users feeling the same sort of squeeze .  now i ca n't speak for everyone , but my childhood in computing was spent scrounging together allowances for new ram so my off-brand pc would n't chug quite so hard . as the verge rightly points out , apple 's ipad line to date has never blown the tech community away with the amount of ram they 've included . apple 's silence on that front is to be expected -- while they 're always eager to talk up their processors and their cameras , apple has historically been content to leave the some of the technical specifics shrouded in mystery .  and why should n't they ? by throwing around adjectives like " magical , " " incredible , " and " amazing " at every possible opportunity , consumers are left to focus more on what they can do with an ipad rather than the little bits of silicon that make those experience happen . sex sells , and ram is anything but sexy . ram matters , even if apple would prefer you did n't know about it . as apps get more complex and more impressive ( as they should , considering how picky we are about them ) , the demands they exact on a device 's hardware grow ever greater . more robust system resources means more opportunities for developers to flex their respective muscles , and the last thing apple needs to do is displease the people who generate revenue for them . more ram is a win for nearly everyone involved , and while some of us may never see as much as we like in our idevices , that should n't stop apple from at least talking about it .