The Great Inversion and the Future of the American City
http://www.csmonitor.com/Books/Book-Reviews/2012/0423/The-Great-Inversion-and-the-Future-of-the-American-City

ByRichard HoranApril 23 , 2012  It used to be that as Americans moved up the ladder , they moved farther away from the city . Not anymore . According to political scientist , Alan Ehrenhalt , author of The Great Inversion and the Future of the American City , they 're flocking back in droves these days . For example , at the time of 9/11 there were 15,000 people living south of the World Trade Center . By 2007 there were 50,000 . " The strollers have reached Wall Street .... Take a walk down there some Saturday and you will see for yourself . " In other words , our manifest destiny is no longer toward wider open spaces and bigger homes ; it 's more like a refrain from the famous Petula Clark song : " Downtown , things 'll be great when you 're Downtown .... "  Inspired by his hero , the grass-roots activist and urban planner , Jane Jacobs , Ehrenhalt , walked around many of America 's big cities over the past 10 years -- Chicago , New Phoenix -- trying to understand how they were changing . What he discovered was a " radical rearrangement in which people who possessed money and choice were increasingly living in the center , while newcomers and the poor were settling in the suburbs , often in the outer reaches of suburban territory . In short , many American metropolitan areas were coming to look more like the European cities of a century ago .... " This cultural phenomenon , unobserved and underreported , convinced Ehrenhalt that American society was , in fact , demographically inverting right under our noses , hence the term " demographic inversion " ( as opposed to " gentrification " ) .  With a " quick glance backwards , " Ehrenhalt offers up Baron Georges-Eugene Haussmann 's redesigned Paris of the 1860s ( with a few references to fin de si ? cleVienna ) as the paradigmatic city , with its percolating street life acting as " a theatre for living , " and , in Ehrenhalt 's mind , " what the " millions of people with substantial earning power or ample savings ... are with Sheffield , a neighborhood three miles north of downtown Chicago as a prime example of this great demographic inversion , Ehrenhalt takes his reader on a tour of the changing American cityscape , pointing out the salient features that have given rise to the transformation of this once shabby , working class neighborhood into one of cosmopolitan chic : the proximity to downtown Chicago , the mass transit station , the nearby university , the charming Victorian cottages , and the commercial corridor . And that 's just Sheffield . Chicago 's entire Loop ( five miles north and south of downtown , and a mile from Lake Michigan ) exploded by 48% in just seven years between 2000 and 2007 .  Ehrenhalt cites a few other near-center , arrondissements that have similarly burgeoned over the past decade , namely Portland , Ore. ; and Clarendon , Va. , eight miles due west of D.C. He implies but does not come right out and say that the linchpins for their success are three-fold : 1 ) jobs 2 ) readily accessible light-rail transit , and 3 ) charm , From Nowhere , " a similarly themed endeavor -- " promotes the intersection of relationships and invites one set of patterns to interact with other patterns , including the complex patterns of individual human minds . "  From there , the great inversion is not so ... great .  The Bushwick section of Brooklyn , for example . Long synonymous with grim poverty , gangs , and drug dealers , it is today a happening bedroom community for New York 's young artists . Be that as it may , there are still " long , dreary blocks lined with abandoned textile factories and large strips of vacant land . " Cheap , yes , lively , sure , but still uglier than a stump full of spiders . Philadelphia is another not-exactly-there-yet city that Ehrenhalt examines . Yes , Philly has an elegant central core along Walnut Street with " a lunchtime pedestrian count of more than two thousand a day , " but it also has more violent crimes per capita than any of the other 10 largest cities in America , and , according to the , 36.5 for every one thousand residential units . " Not exactly an American Vienna .  Ehrenhalt shows us the suburban side of the story in Gwinnett County , Georgia , a suburb outside Atlanta . This was once a rural expanse of 437 acres , and today the quintessence of our " suburban immigrant nation . " There 's even a new Taj Mahal there , called Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushoram Swaminarayan Sanstha temple ( BAPS for short ) , situated next to a Walgreens in Lilburn , Ga . Gwinnett used to have great football teams , but with the influx of Asian immigrants , its highest scores are now recorded on the SATs . The demographic is split right down the middle 50/50 white to non-white .  Then there are , to use Ehrenhalt 's own analogy , the Pinocchios :  Phoenix , is a central-coreless sprawlscape that is trying its hardest to make itself over into an urban center , and though they are investing heavily in miles of transit lines and new centers of urbanity , their plan at present is to build has emerged as the " capital of the suburban town center phenomenon , " has converted an unused airport ten minutes from the city 's downtown into a new urban experiment in the retrofitting of suburban America with shops and residents all in one . So much for Haussmann 's 1860s Paris .  " The Great Inversion " is an enjoyable and engaging read , especially for those considering a move back to the city . It is solidly researched with great questions asked and plenty of hard facts and anecdotal answers provided . And though Ehrenhalt manages to keep his objectivity throughout most of the book , at the very end he reveals himself to be a cockeyed Eur-optimist to wit , " people are settling in cities -- those who have a choice -- in large part to experience the things that citizens of Paris and Vienna experienced a century ago : round the clock street life ; caf ? sociability ; casual acquaintances they meet on the sidewalk every day ; merchants who recognize them . This is the direction I think we are heading in . ; however , he might want to make note of the fact that McDonald 's and Walmart announced record profits in 2010 and GM did the same in 2011 . Vive Les ? tats-Unis !  Richard Horan is a novelist and the author of " Seeds : One Man 's Serendipitous Journey to Find the Trees that Inspired Famous American Writers from Faulkner to Kerouac , Welty to Wharton . " His latest work , " Harvest : A Picaresque Adventure into the Heart of America 's Family Farms , " is due out this summer from Harper Collins .