"The hidden side of your soul": How the FBI uses the Web as a child ...
http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2012/04/the-hidden-side-of-your-soul-how-the-fbi-uses-the-web-as-a-child-porn-honeypot/

the e-mail arrived in james charles cafferty 's inbox on july 14 , 2011 . unlike most unsolicited e-mail on the internet , the message did not pitch mortgages , get rich quick scams , or penis pills . instead , it provided a link to an under-the-radar child pornography website and the password needed to access it . cafferty , a diplomatic security officer working for the us government at its london embassy , waited for three days , then clicked on the link . this is what he saw :  " welcome to the hidden side of yur soul , where you view the yung and innocent . we have been around since 2002 , offering the best of private and series child pornography ( cp ) , ( hardcore/soft core ) all for free ! all you have to do , enter in the password , and you 'll be viewing free cp for days . we move around when we have to ... congratulations for finding us . yur old password wo n't work , so get the new one and you its target well ; cafferty did have a hidden side of his soul . an online dating profile he created at the site plenty of fish said that he was looking for " a relationship with someone who can enjoy the ' simple ' things of life such as walking in the park , enjoying a nice sunset , engaging in good conversation or go people watching at a caf ? . " but he also craved child pornography . cafferty owned a drobo backup device that he stuffed with twin western digital hard drives in a raid configuration to guard against data loss . on the drives , he kept his tens of thousands of child porn files .  sometimes he did more than look at them , too . cafferty would also fire up image editing software on his computer and splice his image into some scenes .  below the website 's promotional copy sat a " law enforcement note " ; the kind that used to feature on warez sites as a talisman that might keep the cops at bay . " if you happen to viewing this website , it 's called free speech , " it said . " there is nothing illegal about this website . our servers are located in a country that has no child pornography laws . even if you are able to shut us down , we pop up again somewhere else ... "  cafferty stared at the screen , then typed in the password found in the e-mail . he was in . another page popped up listing 35 free videos with names like " full version of known video . 3 10-12 y.o . girls and man " and an explicit description of the action . beside each video was a " download " button that provided one-minute previews of each video . forty-nine seconds after entering his password , cafferty clicked on video number four , a 71-minute file that claimed to feature a " 9-10 y.o . girl and man . " a third webpage opened to display the video , which appeared to buffer -- but the connection soon slowed and then stopped altogether . eventually , cafferty abandoned the site .  but a data center , his online visit had tripped a silent alarm . that click on the " download " button had logged his ip address , the video file he attempted to view , and the number of times he tried to watch site videos . the law enforcement warning on the site 's front page had done nothing to keep the fbi away ; indeed , the fbi ran the site .  and now they had cafferty .  totally a legitimate website  spear-phishing , fbi style  the e-mail had not arrived in cafferty 's inbox by accident . back in 2006 , immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) had opened a major investigation into a string of child porn websites . as part of that work , ice learned that the sites used paypal to receive money and disguised the nature of the purchases by using odd subject identifiers . a website called sick child room 2005 , for instance , used as its paypal subject identifier the phrase " sickcr package v.5.06 build 3638 " -- which makes it sound like a software names like " door 1 , " " door 5 , " and " medic 's corner . " behind the doors waited 150 videos and 20,000 child porn images .  cafferty 's mug shot  pinellas county , florida  ice went to paypal and obtained a list of 5,000 people who had subscribed to these sites . the priority was of course getting at those who ran the sites , but the subscribers were n't off the hook . one of the e-mail addresses that had purchased access to the sick child room was travelerva88@yahoo.com . investigators served an administrative subpoena to yahoo , which turned over subscriber information for the account . it belonged to someone who also used the address caffertyj@gmail.com and who worked in london -- but who listed a largo , florida home address . the information from yahoo also contained , surprisingly enough , a link to the user 's facebook profile .  putting cafferty 's name to the account was n't particularly difficult after this . investigators eventually realized that their target was a us government employee working as a bureau this point it was july 2011 , and the child porn purchases had happened 5+ years before . investigators decided that , before pursuing cafferty , they wanted to know if he was still involved in the cp scene .  the case went to corey monaghan , a detective in the largo , florida police department and a member of the fbi 's nationwide innocent images task force . on july 14 , 2011 , monaghan contacted his colleagues at the fbi 's innocent images operations unit in maryland and asked them to deploy an " investigative tool " to determine cafferty 's continued interest in child porn . in initial court documents , all descriptions of the tool were redacted -- but the smoking gun got its hands on the unredacted original and published several key pages .  the fbi had set up its fake cp site for precisely this situation . when investigators had a lead on someone specific , they e-mailed the person with a custom password and the site url . the strangely explicit front page discussion about the " child pornography " within made were accessing . as monaghan 's unredacted affidavit makes clear , " nowhere on the website home page indicates sic any adult pornography or anything other than child pornography is available through this website . " in reality , the site offered no child porn ; the video loading screen had been purpose-built to fail in such a way that visitors believed their internet connections to be the culprits .  soon after cafferty 's visit to the site , the innocent images task force knew they had found their man . not only had he used his custom password -- he had logged in with a london ip address . time to pay him a visit .