8 strategies for reaching elusive young readers
http://www.poynter.org/news/mediawire/171304/7-strategies-for-reaching-elusive-young-readers/

8 strategies for reaching elusive young readers  mainstream news organizations are not doing so well with young audiences .  only 30 percent of people 18 to 34 read a newspaper in print or digitally on an average day , according to the newspaper association of america . that 's down from 35 percent in 2009 .  but there 's no reason to give up hope on reaching the digital and even print audiences of the future . based on research and the advice of news outlets that do reach young people , here are some of the important steps you can take .  create a separate product  you can take some steps to make your traditional news product more youth-friendly ( more on that below ) , but to best serve a younger audience you 'll want to carve out a separate staff and product .  the chicago tribune chose to solve the problem this way , by launching redeye about 10 years ago as a free weekday publication targeting local 18- to 35-year-old readers .  redeye adapts some news also has four general assignment reporters doing youth-oriented enterprise stories the mainstream press does n't cover . they take on beats like the local gay community , entry-level job markets , workplace cultural issues , local nightlife and dating .  " at some point you have to have a voice and you have to stick to it , " ha said . " and there 's going to be a certain type of audience that is drawn to that voice that wo n't be drawn to a different voice . you really ca n't mix them without alienating the other or changing who you are as a publication . "  hire young people  do n't send a 50-year-old to do a 25-year-old 's job .  " my newsroom at redeye pretty much reflects the audience in terms of age and demographics and interests , " ha said . " so we talk a lot about , ' what are your friends talking about ? what are they interested in ? what are n't they interested in ? ' we try to use people on staff as a same approach that helps buzzfeed draw strong traffic from young people , especially those in college , managing editor scott lamb told me .  " i 'm 36 , and i 'm definitely the oldest person on the editorial team , by a lot , " lamb said . " we did that as a hiring strategy largely because we want people who are very native to things like twitter and facebook . "  at the time lamb and i were talking last week , the twobuzzfeed posts getting the most traffic were written by an intern , dave stopera ( since hired full-time as an associate editor ) , who still has a year left to complete at new york university .  " it does happen kind of naturally , because we 're hiring people who think about online content differently than i do , " lamb said . " they 've grown up with it , and i think they make things for people like themselves . "  focus on relevance  journalists may need to expand the boundaries of what they traditionally consider " make sense , it has to be relevant , " said danah boyd , a microsoft researcher and expert in youth media and privacy issues ( who also inspired this post with her recent criticism of how mainstream news organizations fail to serve young people ) .  " if you 've never experienced any of the world outside of your friends and school , global news feels alien , " boyd told me . " young people are deeply engaged in the news of their peers , but we do n't call that news . "  at redeye , they define news not just by what seems important , but by what seems relevant to their audience . sometimes those two are the same , but when they diverge , redeye gives bigger play to the story its audience will find most relevant to their personal lives and experiences .  include more context  journalists need to find ways to make complex , ongoing storylines accessible to people who perhaps have n't been following every word since day 1 .  that 's especially important to young people less regular intervals than do their elders and than did previous generations of young people , " according to christopher sopher , who researched and blogged extensively on youth and the media , and now works for the knight foundation . " on-demand news consumption , " he continues , " also means that ... online news institutions and even television would benefit from redesigning their content for a grazing audience , built to help readers and viewers dropping in at random times who may not have read yesterday 's story on a continuing topic . "  in short , do n't let a news story get lost in minutiae . remember to pull back , widen your focus , and explain where this story came from , where it 's heading and why it matters . some cases might warrant a whole other kind of story -- an " explainer " that , as jay rosen put it , " does n't provide the latest news or update you on a story , but addresses a gap in your understanding : the lack of essential background knowledge . " of america and the media management center at northwestern university conducted a study in 2009 with 90-minute focus groups of teenagers across the country .  one of the key findings : " what these teens said they want are news sites that do news well , not dumb it down or pose as experts in teen culture . "  in other words , you serve young readers by making news clearer , fuller , more relevant and easier to digest -- not by sprinkling your copy with hip catchphrases . ( by the way , no one says " hip " anymore . )  be conversational  most young people do n't look back fondly on their time sitting in giant lecture halls listening to a teacher dryly exposit facts . so they 're equally unexcited by many mainstream news outlets that communicate the same way .  the traditional style of newspaper writing is too impersonal and formulaic for younger readers . ( it 's not especially good writing for adult readers either , but they 're used to it . )  what does " conversational 's one regular person sitting across a cafe table from you , asking what you 've heard today .  use bite-sized facts  that naa study referenced earlier found that " almost universally , teens reject pages with uninterrupted text in favor of those that offer information in smaller , bite-sized chunks with multiple entry points . "  bullet points and subheadlines are your friend . give each point its own distinct visual and narrative space . this is how redeye applies the model even to solemn news like the trayvon martin killing :  trayvon martin : the big picture  the shooting death of trayvon martin has grabbed national headlines and renewed the conversation about race relations , gun laws and even how young men dress . ... here are other notable events since the incident occurred last month .  &gt;&gt;geraldo rivera caused a stir when he claimed martin 's hoodie was as responsible ...  &gt;&gt;espn has made an exception to its twitter policy for the martin case , permitting employees to wear hoodies in their online avatars ...  &gt;&gt;players on the miami heat and one of the most popular teams in the league , took pictures of themselves last week wearing hoodies ...  &gt;&gt;democrats on the u.s. house of representatives judiciary committee are scheduled to hold an unofficial hearing tuesday ...  &gt;&gt;the case has rippled across the nation and prompted rallies protesting the failure of the police to arrest the shooter ...  &gt;&gt;declaring that " if i had a son , he 'd look like trayvon , " president obama on friday joined the heated national debate ...  there are other less common story forms you also can use to break down information and make it easier to understand : games , quizzes , even an educational coloring book for young children .  there 's a thin line , of course , between this directive and the advice not to " dumb it down . " breaking information into digestible pieces does n't mean you have to deliver less information .  ease off on those paywalls  young readers may be one of the first casualties of a website 's paywall .  many of them lack disposable see the appeal of spending it on your news product unless you 've overcome all the previously mentioned issues .  " young people are n't going out of their way to try to find this news , so you put up one little wall , and poof , done , " boyd said in her previous interview . " ... when i hear news agencies talk about wanting to get young people , they do n't want to figure out how to actually inform them -- they want to hear how to monetize them . and that pisses me off . "  some of our readers objected to that comment , including tennessean reporter brian haas : " when i hear young people talk about consuming news , they do n't want to pay for it -- they want it all for free . and that pisses me off . "  boyd clarified this to me : " i do n't object to monetization . i just think that when you lead with monetization , you often fail to engage people who are hesitant to engage in the that we recognize that journalism has a public good responsibility as well as a bottom line responsibility . "  if you can embrace some of these changes while staying true to your mission and not alienating your existing audience , you should be on your way to building important relationships with the next generation .  i like this simple think:do n't send a 50-year-old to do a 25-year-old 's job .  anonymous  it 's not you , it 's them .  your 18 to 34 year olds are largely the product of school systems that have pursued test scores at the expense of curiousity , creativity and critical thinking . on the whole , they neither write nor read well . they are disengaged from many abstract pursuits , as they were disengaged from the testing machine that ca became in the early 1990 's in the vanguard of the standards movement which anointed the standardized test score as the gold of the realm .  and media has simple-mindedly reported on the test scores as if they were measures of something beyond the students ' noticed the military , colleges and union training trusts do not consult these scores ? )  report the battle over the character of the classroom as the commom core standards come into effect by fall of 2014 in 45 states . look at the recently released prototype tests for the ccs , which do seek to measure writing , reading , thinking , long term engagement and problem solving . report on cal ab 250 and p21.org . quit carrying the testmaker 's coals for them .  so maybe it you , after all  anonymous  it 's not you , it 's them . your 18 to 34 year olds are largely the product of school systems that has pursued test scores at the expense of curiousity , creativity and critical thinking . on the whole , they neither write nor read well . they are disengaged from many abstract pursuits , as they were disengaged from the testing machine that ca became in the early 1990 's in the vanguard of the standards movement as the standardized test became the gold of the realm .  if they were measures of something beyond the students ' ability to take mulitple choce tests . ( have you notice the military , colleges and union training trusts do not consult these scores ? )  report the battle over the classroom the commom core standards , in effect in 2014 in 45 states , are generating . look at the recently released prototype tests for the ccs , which do seek to measure writing , reading , thinking , long term engagement and problem solving . report on cal ab 250 and p21.org . quit carrying the testmaker 's coals for them .  so maybe it you , after all .  http : //www.paigeworthy.com paigeworthy  i disagree so wholeheartedly with you . our attention spans are shorter than ever , but you absolutely can still create a product that 's well informed and eloquent but also conversational and easy to digest .  http : //www.paigeworthy.com paigeworthy  glad i 'm not losing it !  anonymous  how right you are , paige . thanks for pointing that out . i must have forked one forgot to recount . changed that now .  anonymous  that 's not to say older journalists ca n't write news that 's accessible to young people . of course they can . but if you want a reporter to cover youth culture as a full-time beat , like some of these publications do , it makes sense to have someone there who is immersed in it .  anonymous  that 's not to say older journalists ca n't write news that 's accessible to young people . of course they can . but if you want a reporter to cover youth culture as a full-time beat , like some of these publications do , it makes sense to have someone there who is immersed in it .  anonymous  stephen , according to the same naa data source , that would be 49% of people over 35 and 57% of people over 55. http : **63;96;toolong  anonymous  stephen , according to the same naa data source , that would be 49% of people over 35 and 57% of people over 55. http : **63;161;toolong   stephen davis  what % of those over 34 read news daily -- online or print . i 'm willing to bet higher , but not as high as most people think .  anonymous  " bite-sized " chunks of news and a conversational tone are dumbing it down .  as a young person , i care most about the thickness of my wallet . give me an easy way to subscribe to multiple online news sources , and give me content that i ca n't get anywhere else .  parents , teachers and employers also should stress the importance of know what 's going on in the community , state and world . i care because i worked for newspapers . my classmates who did n't are content with news snippets , which result in less understanding of key issues .  anonymous  how disappointing that poynter would allow an absurd and ageist statement such as " do n't send a 50-year-old to do a 25-year-old 's job " to be published on its site . note that the poynter-owed tbt does n't follow this @ @