Favorite Dance Craze of the 2000's (So Far) - Readers Poll
http://popcrush.com/favorite-dance-craze-of-the-2000s-so-far-readers-poll/

favorite dance craze of the 2000 's ( so far ) -- readers poll  since the beginning of the 21st century , pop stars have been creating signature dance routines that have become virulent throughout mainstream culture . whether these dances have emerged in the hip-hop , pop , r&amp;b or electro genres , they 've all become crazes at some point or another throughout the 2000 's . we 've selected 10 of the most popular dances from the past few years , and we 're asking readers to vote for the one they 've deemed as their favorite .  in 2000 , ' n sync had all of us stomping our feet and jerking our heads to side as we waved ' bye bye bye . ' that same year , britney spears broke out of her bubblegum mold with her sexy video for ' oops ! ... i did it again , ' which also sparked a dance craze thanks to the out-of-this-world choreography in the spacey clip .  ciara also ignited a dance sensation when she released her ' 1,2 one of the best dancers in the game , the moves were simple enough for all of her fans to partake . two years later , rap outfit dem franchise boyz and solo rapper unk released their respective singles ' lean wit it , rock wit it ' and ' walk it out , ' both of which flooded dance floors all over the u.s. and in 2007 , soulja boy kept the southern rap dances flowing with his single ' crank that ( soulja boy ) ' and its accompanying choreographed routine .  as the end of the first decade of the 21st century drew near , the dance crazes kept a comin ' . beyonce blew minds all over the world with her ' single ladies ( put a ring on it ) ' dance , which everyone attempted to recreate , however , few could nail the moves quite like the ms. knowles . shortly after , fellow pop diva lady gaga got everyone putting their paws up with her courtesy of her ' bad romance ' clip , which has a very distinct and very addicting the song names if you need to jog your memory ! and do n't forget to cast your vote for your favorite dance craze from the 2000 's ( so far , at least ) and leave us a comment below .  welcome back to popcrush  it appears that you already have an account created within our vip network of sites on . to keep your personal information safe , we need to verify that it 's really you . to activate your account , please confirm your password . when you have confirmed your password , you will be able to log in through facebook on both sites .  welcome back to popcrush  it appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . to connect your existing account just click on the account activation button below . you will maintain your existing vip profile . after you do this , you will be able to always log in to http : //popcrush.com using your original account information .