Surge of immigrant children caught is mystery, burden
http://www.mysanantonio.com/news/local_news/article/Surge-of-immigrant-children-caught-is-mystery-3518741.php

surge of immigrant children caught is mystery , burden  associated press  updated 11:23 pm , saturday , april 28 , 2012  photo : office of public affairs , admini , nyt  image 1of/1  caption  close  image 1 of 1  an undated handout photo of a lackland air force base dormitory being used for children who crossed the border alone . in april , 2012 , federal officials began housing 200 illegal immigrant children at the base , turning a vacant dormitory that was once the living quarters of basic training recruits into an emergency shelter for young illegal immigrants . ( office of public affairs , administration for children and families via the new york times ) -- editorial use only  an undated handout photo of a lackland air force base dormitory being used for children who crossed the border alone . in april , 2012 , federal officials began housing 200 illegal immigrant children at the base ,  the unprecedented surge of children caught trudging through south texas scrublands or crossing at border ports of entry to expand their shelter , legal representation and reunification services . on any given day this year , the u.s. office of refugee resettlement has been caring for more than 2,100 unaccompanied child immigrants .  the influx came to light last week when 100 kids were taken to lackland afb for temporary housing . it was the first time the government has turned to the defense department -- now , 200 boys and girls younger than 18 stay in a base dormitory .  while the issue of unaccompanied minors arriving in the u.s. is n't new , the scale of the recent increase is . from october 2011 through march , 5,252 kids landed in u.s. custody without a parent or guardian -- a 93 percent increase from the same period the previous year , according to data released by the department of health and human services . in march alone , 1,390 kids arrived .  the cause of the surge remains a mystery to child migrant advocates and government officials . the kids are coming from the same places as usual -- guatemala , el salvador , of explanations : they made the trek to look for parents already in the u.s. ; they 're seeking economic opportunity to send money home ; they want to escape violence or abuse .  " we 're talking to the children , but we do n't have one solid answer , " said lauren fisher of the south texas pro bono asylum representation project , which helps children and their families navigate the system . " there seem to be the same reasons that we 've seen before . "  some have suggested that human smugglers are more aggressively marketing their services . others wonder if the border patrol , whose presence has doubled in recent years , is simply catching more of them . but border patrol apprehensions of children and adults were cut in half from 2008 to 2011 , and only 5 percent of those caught are unaccompanied children . younger children commonly cross with adult smugglers at the ports of entry , while older kids join groups that follow guides through the brush .  a south texas woman told border authorities this month that hidalgo , texas , and reynosa , mexico , was her sister , according to court records . she even presented a texas birth certificate . but the girl could n't answer basic questions , so the woman told customs officers that she was n't related to the girl at all . she said that a man whom she worked with in mexico offered her $2,000 to " cross " the girl -- who was actually from guatemala -- and accompany her to houston . the woman was charged with transporting an illegal immigrant .  last week , the first ladies of mexico , honduras and guatemala spoke at a three-day conference on unaccompanied minors in washington , d.c. mexico 's first lady , margarita zavala , and honduras ' rosa elena bonilla de lobo noted that tougher u.s. border security made it more difficult for parents working in the u.s. to return for their children , a suggestion as to why parents increasingly would put their children in a smuggler 's care .  " the statistics are worrisome , " said rosa maria leal de perez , guatemala children repatriated in the last year . "  child welfare groups are in " triage mode , " said wendy young , executive director of kids in need of defense , a washington , d.c.-based nonprofit that matches pro bono attorneys with unaccompanied minors navigating the immigration system . " it 's important that the resources and the capacity meet the need , and we 're not quite there yet . "  the department of health and human services ' office of refugee resettlement facilities in 10 states range from shelters to foster homes and have about 2,500 beds . government-contracted shelters were maxing out their emergency bed space , setting up cots in gymnasiums and other extra spaces .  " it 's a much more limited set of services , " fisher said . " it felt something like a red cross shelter , a hurricane shelter . "  unaccompanied children are first processed by the department of homeland security , then turned over to the orr while the deportation process begins . once in a shelter , the search begins for relatives or an acceptable with pro bono attorneys . when a custodian is found , the child can leave the shelter and await immigration proceedings .  eighty percent of the children referred to the orr end up in a shelter , according to a report released last month by the vera institute of justice -- a nonprofit that developed a program to better provide access to legal services for children . the average shelter stay is 61 days .  at the lackland shelter , hhs spokesman jesse garcia said the goal is to move kids to more establishe accommodations within 15 days .  " we are looking to add some educational features that are appropriate for a 30-day temporary program , " garcia said .  as of late friday , 83 children had already been transferred out of lackland , most to permanent facilities . nineteen had been reunited with family .