City of Refuge helps international refugees adjust to life in central ...
http://www.columbiatribune.com/business/saturday_business/city-of-refuge-helps-international-refugees-adjust-to-life-in/article_1e2dce4e-e06c-5480-8246-a41e2bf77df6.html

You must login to view the full content on this page .  That 's because hard work does n't always pay the bills . The inability to overcome a language barrier or find transportation or a lack of knowledge of the modern world can make it difficult to find work .  City of Refuge , a not-for-profit organization that assists refugees from around the world , helps hundreds of families make it in the United States .  The population of refugees in Central Missouri , specifically Columbia , continues to increase as residents of troubled nations and territories seek asylum in the United States . Although it remains unknown exactly how many refugees are residing in Central Missouri , Refugee and Immigration Services of the Catholic Diocese of Jefferson City is believed to be responsible for the majority of local immigration , Wheeler said .  Since 1975 , the agency has assisted people from Asia , Africa , Eastern Europe and Latin America find their way to Central Missouri . The diocese pays rent for refugee families for the first six months . month of paid utilities also are provided .  It 's not until grant funding is depleted that the newcomers are in some ways on their own in a great big new world .  Through City of Refuge , Wheeler said she tries her best to provide people with the resources they need . That means transportation to doctors appointments , English classes , clothing , food and , most important , work .  ?  Started in September 2010 , City of Refuge was organized in response to the generosity of others and success of a small cleaning service Wheeler created called Safi-Sana LLC . The organization 's origins , however , date back to January 2009 , when Wheeler and her husband , Adam Wheeler , a local pediatrician , were attending a Christian Fellowship Church service .  About 50 East African immigrants often attended services , but Wheeler said she feared to approach them .  " I used to be afraid to speak to people who did n't speak English , " she said . " I knew they were there . What would to make the refugees feel at home , so a group of refugees ages 15 to 25 attended dinner one night for Bible study . Lucky to have a trio of French interpreters , Wheeler said she made a connection with her new friends and recognized their needs .  " They have never seen spaghetti or tacos , " she said . " Everything we made we had to show them how to eat it . ... I got that burden that night . "  Wheeler said she became fascinated with the stories some would tell and the way they lived their lives . Raised in Florissant , she recalls her middle-class lifestyle and the " very white neighborhood " she grew up in to be foreign from the obstacles these newcomers face .  ?  People come to the United States for many reasons . Some Iraqi refugees have been relocated to Columbia because they assisted the American government and its troops during Operation Iraqi Freedom . Others come from villages or refugee camps in Africa and Malaysia where people slept on the dirt and their lone things American adults do each day to get by , Wheeler said , are new and unfamiliar to these people . She found herself assisting many with the simple tasks of reading their mail , teaching them to operate cellphones and helping set up bank accounts .  Refugees and their children also had transportation needs . " At the time , I had two kids . I said , ' I 'm not their mom . ' Adam said , ' Yes you are , ' " Wheeler explained . " I thought about it and embraced it . "  Recognizing a need for employment , Wheeler said she dreamed up the idea of starting a cleaning service . Safi-Sana , which means " very clean " in Swahili , was born soon after .  " I literally Googled ' How to start a business , ' " she said .  On average , about 10 to 15 people work for the cleaning service , which has contracts with local hotels and businesses for work that pays about $9 an hour . Turnover is high because some like the work because they have no experience in making beds and find little fulfillment .  Profit derived from the business is used for employees ' basic needs , Wheeler said . When she realized the multitude of services she provided , it only made sense to create a not-for-profit such as City of Refuge and establish Safi-Sana as a division of the charity .  In January , an additional division of the charity sprung to life with the creation of Freedom Landscapes . Operated by James Rawlings , the lawn service employs four refugees . The organization 's slogan is " Freeing you from yard work while offering freedom to refugees . "  " I 'm not in it to make a killing , " Rawlings said . " I do well enough to make a living and provide a living for refugees . "  A youth pastor at Midway Baptist Church , Rawlings said his church also provides services to local refugees .  ?  With the assistance of Lori Stoll , a volunteer who now coordinates Safi-Sana , Wheeler also has delegated transportation and father of four escaped civil war in Congo to reside in camps in Burundi before his immigration to America .  An educated man , Rusaya supervised a not-for-profit HIV clinic while in Africa and at one time attempted to open a school in a Burundi camp . He said his family fled after continuous uprisings and witnessing assassinations .  In Columbia , Rusaya bounced from job to job . He worked at a local hotel for seven months but quit before taking over for Wheeler . He now takes other refugees to doctor , dentist and other appointments , sometimes as far as Kansas City and St. Louis .  " They tell me to do stuff , but I do n't understand , " he said of his first jobs .  Rusaya finds more dignity in driving than cleaning work . His education does not meet the credentials of American standards , but he hopes to return to school in the fall .  Through material donations to City of Refuge , such as food , clothes , books , DVDs and electronics , Wheeler said Those funds go toward special projects such as potentially helping Rusaya with tuition or reuniting refugee families .  Thang Khen Pau and Vung Lun Cing , a Burmese couple , are refugees who both worked for Wheeler 's Safi-Sana and are hopeful to bring Cing 's brother from Burma .  Pau said he was so thankful for the opportunity to work and provide for his wife and two children upon arrival to Columbia that it was hard to move on because he was loyal . He did so when a higher-paying job came along , and Cing now works as a stay-at-home mom .  " I can feed three families here , " he said of sending money back to both his and Cing 's parents .  Here in Columbia , Pau said , life is much better than in Burma . There , Pau worked construction with his uncle . Without payment , the army would make them build structures .  " If I do n't leave , they would come get us , " he said of the army .  The couple recognizes Some come from " the forest " and lack basic skills such as reading and writing , Cing said .  In contrast , Pau and Cing said they learn English each day from their oldest daughter , 4-year-old Dim Sian Kim , who attends Columbia Public Schools .  SECOND THOUGHTS  This page has been revised to reflect the following correction :  Yesterday 's Saturday Business story about City of Refuge included the incorrect name of the owner of Freedom Landscapes . It is James Rawlings , not Randy Rawlings .  Thank you for visiting ColumbiaTribune.com  You have viewed your 10 free stories . You can come back at the end of your 30-day period for another 10 free articles , or you can purchase a subscription and enjoy unlimited access to local news , sports , photos and thoughtful analysis to help make sense of it all . If you need help , please contact our customer service office at 573-815-1600 .  The opinions expressed below are those of the readers who submitted them . Readers are solely responsible for the content of their regarding comments .  Your comment will appear under your Facebook identity . To comment using your Tribune username , and to have unlimited access to local content , become a Tribune online subscriber .  Rules of Conduct  1Our policy regarding reader comments Be courteous . Do n't post comments that are abusive , defamatory , illegal , libelous or obscene . It is possible to debate without engaging in personal attacks . We can not review every comment , but we reserve the right to remove or delete comments at any time . For more information , read our commenting guidelines or FAQ 's regarding comments .