'Maya the Bee' Buzzes into North America
http://www.awn.com/news/maya-bee-buzzes-north-america

Vancouver , B.C. -- There 's a new bee invasion making headlines in America .  Thunderbird Films , the independent multiplatform media production , distribution and rights management company , has been selected by Studio 100 , the Flemish children 's television production company , to distribute its new , 3D animated adventure series Maya the Bee into Canada and to help the producer with U.S. sales of the 78 x 13-minute episodes produced in high definition . The property , which celebrates its 100th anniversary this year , is based on the German book of the same name and has had a rich history of success with multiple books , a successful TV series and an extensive merchandising program .  The new Maya the Bee series in 3D will pave the way for another level of success in extending the Maya the Bee brand .  The announcement was made today by Jeffrey Engelen , Thunderbird 's newly named distribution chief .  " Maya the Bee is representative of the strongly branded programming that Thunderbird can help bring to the North American marketplace be collaborating with Studio 100 on how best to introduce this new incarnation of Maya the Bee , especially with the rich history and brand equity that has been developed over the past 100 years . We 're looking to work with Studio 100 on leveraging this evergreen brand and its loyal family fans into viewers for the new Maya the Bee 3D HD animated series . We want to ensure that both long-standing fans and those new to the brand will be equally engaged and entertained .  " Thunderbird Films has extensive relationships with children 's networks throughout North America and an enthusiasm for this project that will drive its success , " said Patrick Elmendorff , managing director of Studio 100 Media .  Maya the Bee is a fun-filled 3D animated adventure TV series for the 5 to 7 year-old audience . Maya has left her hive to discover the beauty and mysteries of the outside world . As she explores , she meets other insect friends , plays and shares adventures with her friends . Maya the Bee reinforces children 's natural curiosity and their desire in being generous , caring and always ready to help family and friends .  The new 3D Maya the Bee is produced by Studio 100 Animation SAS in association with TF1 and ZDF . Directed by Daniel Duda , its writing bible was crafted by Delphine Maury and Christophe Erbes and its graphic bible designed by Jan Van Rijsselberge.