Ikea Accused of Logging Old-Growth Forests
http://www.environmentalleader.com/2012/05/30/ikea-accused-of-logging-old-growth-forests/

Related Topics  A subsidiary of furniture retailer Ikea is logging old-growth forests and other high conservation value forests in western Russia , according to the Global Forestry Coalition .  GFC -- an alliance of NGOs from more than 40 countries -- alleges that Ikea 's wholly owned logging subsidiary Swedwood has been clear-cutting forests in high biodiversity value areas and logging very old trees in parts of the Russian Karelia region .  The furniture giant uses the " We Love Wood " slogan to highlight its claim to use only wood sourced in an environmentally and socially responsible way .  Swedwood is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council . GFC has also criticized NEPCon , the company that ensures that the company 's facilities are FSC-compliant . GFC has called NEPCon allowing the logging of old-growth trees under the FSC banner " a scandal . "  Ikea says that the average age of the trees that its harvests in Karelia is 160 years . The company also says that what 's vital when looking at total forest management is not the age earlier logging , but proper management that plans the logging in accordance with good conservation procedures and biodiversity .  In a response to GFC 's claims , Ikea said that some 17 percent of of Swedwood 's total leasehold in Karelia is exempt from cutting , either by legislative demand or voluntarily . Ikea says this is a far greater proportion of land than legally required . Furthermore , when the leasehold 's limits were determined in 2004 , Ikea says it gave up areas of about nine percent of the total leasehold , following dialogue with Greenpeace , as the natural values of these areas were considered too high to conduct responsible forestry .  The company says the new pallets can support the same load as traditional timber pallets , but are just one-third the height , at two inches high . This means Ikea can fit more goods into each shipment . The cardboard pallets are also only 5.5 pounds , 90 percent lighter than their predecessor .  Earlier this week , Greenpeace accused KFC is using wood from rainforests to make its packaging . The Pulp &amp; Paper to make such things as chicken buckets , french fry cartons and drinks containers , the environmental organization said .  Reader Comments  Important issue does not seem to be well summarized toward a solution/action and I do not understand why KFC was brought in . We have much work to do to build a sustainable world ; let 's be as organized and effective in our efforts as we can be . Thanks  As the FSC certification service provider to Swedwood Karelia , we would like to explain more about NEPCon 's role and the FSC certification process . We welcome comments from stakeholders and we take them very seriously . That is why we conducted a follow-up field audit last year , based on formal complaints over Swedwood Karelia 's forest management regime including logging in old-growth forest . We are always willing to address and correct any possible error in our auditing work . However , our follow-up audit did not reveal any non-conformances with the applicable FSC Forest Management standards ; as professional FSC auditors , we do not and may not  It is also important to understand that the Russian FSC Forest Management certification standard has been developed by key Russian stakeholders , following FSC 's procedures that require balanced influence by environmental , social , and economic interests .