Can drinking a glass of wine keep bedbugs away?
http://www.mnn.com/health/fitness-well-being/stories/can-drinking-a-glass-of-wine-keep-bedbugs-away

The insects created fewer eggs when they consumed blood with 200 proof ethanol in it compared to those that sipped alcohol-free blood .  The common bed bug mainly survives on human blood , but what happens when that human has upped his or her blood alcohol content with a few glasses of a nice red wine ? New research from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln suggests bed bugs are not as fond of alcohol as their boozy hosts , which may lead to fewer bug bites .  According to the study , bed bugs prefer alcohol-free blood to blood with alcohol in it ; the higher the blood alcohol concentration ( BAC ) , the less the bugs eat . And , because there is a direct link between blood intake and reproduction rates , those bugs also lay fewer eggs .  " Bed bugs need a blood meal to grow and to molt and to reproduce , " explained Ralph Narain , a Ph.D . candidate who conducted the work as part of his dissertation . " And one of their main hosts are Alcohol was one of the easier ones to start with . "  Narain presented the findings last week at the National Conference on Urban Entomology in Atlanta .  How bed bugs imbibe  While it 's fun to imagine graduate students knocking back beers and feeding bed bugs on their arms , Narain took a more scientific approach in his experiment . He mixed 200 proof ethanol -- the same compound estimated by a Breathalyzer -- into four samples of expired blood from the Nebraska Blood Bank until he had BACs of 0.010 , 0.025 , 0.050 and 0.100 ( 0.08 is the legal limit for driving ) . A control sample contained no alcohol .  Next , he selected 20 adult bed bugs for each blood sample , weighed them , fed them their respective samples , and weighed them again . He repeated the experiment six times .  The average mass of the bed bugs that fed on the clean blood increased by over 100 percent . Those that fed on the blood with the lowest BAC , 0.010 , increased just 60 percent , The bed bugs that fed on the 0.100 BAC sample went up a mere 12.5 percent .  As for the eggs , the control groups laid an average of 44 after the feeding , while those that fed on the highest BAC laid an average of just 12 .  It 's unclear whether the alcohol affected the adult bugs ' behavior or their offspring 's development , although future tests might attempt to measure both . Narain also plans to run tests on other drugs , although he would n't officially disclose which .  Way toward pest control ?  So , can we just knock back a few glasses of wine every night to keep the bed bugs away ? Probably not . " I 'm not going to suggest someone should consume alcohol to control bed bugs , " Narain said .  Ill health affects aside , it likely would n't help curb an infestation . While the bed bugs do feed less on alcohol-laced blood , they still feed , and while they lay fewer eggs , up to 95 percent still hatch . .  Dini Miller , an entomologist and bed bug expert from Virginia Tech , agreed : " I do n't know what sort of implications it has ultimately , because unfortunately they still produce enough eggs to cause an infestation . So while they feed less , still , we 're not going to experience less of a problem . But it 's very interesting to know . "  Brooke Borel is a contributor to Life 's Little Mysteries , and is currently writing a book about bed bugs . For more crazy bed bugs stories , follow her on Twitter : @brookeborel