A look at SLPL team names
http://www.islandcricket.lk/blogs/srilankacricket/sanki8oh8/look-at-slpl-team-names

a look at slpl team names  the news has taken sri lanka by storm and it seems to be the subject that comes up in all cricket circles i know of . no , it 's not the all important england tour which starts in a few days , it 's our own sl(i)pl ! i did n't include that ' i ' there by accident , i put it there because it 's our own copy of ipl .  as the news broke out , most cricket lovers were off guard and when they tried to find more information , they found almost nothing . no official logo , website , fixtures , broadcasters and there are older mushrooms that popped up in our backyard after the rains than the company that won the rights to organize the event .  let 's look at the positives , our domestic players will make some money , earn some experience and it 'll be an opportunity for them to show their talent to the world . slpl will have less drama compared to the ipl n't take much time . pakistani players will get to have some fun . the crowds will be - well sri lankan - far relaxed and musical .  the obvious negatives will be the small budget , limited international talent available , the weather ( will be very tricky ) and all the games are going to be in colombo . there 's also a possibility of multiple lalit modis with the abundance of ego filled politicians and cricket officials in sri lanka .  then , the confusion : the biggest of all , will there be cheerleaders ?  will somerset entertainment ventures bring in channa wijewardena 's dancing troupe to cheer , or will it be the trio from the latest bns cricket video ?  and the question that 's been bothering my light hearted friends , ' what the hell were they thinking when they came up with those team names ? ! ! ! '  basnahira bears  as far as i know , the only place that you 'll come across a bear in the western ( basnahira ) province is at , but i ca n't stop wondering if it would have been better if they picked something like ' basnahira bats ' or ' basnahira crows ' . out of 91 species of mammals found in sri lanka , 11 are from the bat family plus it can also mean the cricket bat ( not an animal ) . about crows , almost everyone in sri lanka knows about the cunning colombo crows so why not tell the world a few stories and promote a piece of our country ?  no need to be a zoologist to come up with these , but a good googlist .  kadurata kites  when one of my friends told me the names of the slpl teams , i broke into laughter as i heard this one . i thought that ' kites ' meant the type that kids fly at the galle face green and i told my good friend to go fly a kite himself . but apparently , they named it after the type of birds , similar to eagles . why they did n't call the team ' kadurata the name ' kadurata sambars ' would have sounded more exotic and most importantly made sense as sri lankan sambars are endemic creatures .  nagenahira nagas  when the month of july comes , the word ' nagas ' will be googled quite a lot . i do n't have much against this name , but they should have kept at least one part english . i 'm just glad that it did n't end up being something like ' nagenahira dugongs ' or ' nagenahira pandas ' .  ruhuna rhinos  once again , anyone from the southern province needs to go to the national zoo to see a rhino or they can drink a few pots of toddy from matara and go take a nap . a name like ' ruhuna blue whales ' would have made more sense and also could have helped advertise whale watching in sri lanka .  uthura oryxes  antelopes ? i do n't know what the animal reflects about the northern province , but one thing i can tell is that the person who suggested these names went on a  here comes the mythological creature ! i guess little girls of uva province will be happy with their team name . i 'm sure that the players will feel quite special too ! a name like ' uva leopards ' would have fit in just fine .  wayamba wolves  this team went to the champion 's league wearing a sponsors logo of a brand of condoms and lost all their matches and came back home in a hurry . they must have expected something like ' wayamba sperm whales ' . wayamba boys must be relieved , should n't get too comfortable though , organizers have n't picked the sponsors yet !  those are the teams and the names and what they could have been or even what they should have been .  clearly , they just wanted the names to sound ' interesting ' , but they have failed miserably , in most cases . instead , somerset entertainment ventures should have aimed at uniqueness .  after all , sri lanka is a country that produced freaks to the cricketing world , who could rotates so fast that you need thousand frames per second to catch it , small fiery fast bowlers with blonde curls that send in more accurate yorkers than a bowling machine and batsmen with forearms of steel who could square cut sixes at will , or ones who were bold enough to wait for the ball until milliseconds before it hit their head and scoop it right over the wicket keeper . if i ever expected a world class league from sri lanka , i 'd have wanted it to be unique not a copy of the ipl rubbish .  a knock-out league with day-night , four-day cricket matches played with a pink ball would have been more sri lankan , because that 's what sri lanka has brought into the arena over decades , things that are original , true and absolutely amazing !  like the ipl , this tournament 's primary aim is not to showcase the world 's cricketing talent and provide entertainment , it is to generate money . i do n't particularly have a problem with that as the bccsl could use the income . if they did n't , it would add a sense of integrity to it , which like the ipl , it does n't deserve .