No leprechauns in the Nation of Paddy
http://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/declan-lynch-no-leprechauns-in-the-nation-of-paddy-26870880.html

in this brave new world , the irish male would renounce all eejitry , writes declan lynch  i read with sadness the words of my friend and colleague dion fanning , reflecting on the terrible things he had seen at euro 2012 : " many might insist that the ease with which we now dress as leprechauns or some other mythical representation of the eejit shows a nation at ease with itself ... yet there is no evidence that we are at ease with anything , except when assisted by massive doses of alcohol or other sedatives " .  he imagines a million man march , in which the irish male displays a commitment to sobriety and a renunciation of eejitry , asserting the values of self-respect and dignity , rather than whatever he is asserting in his present condition -- sort of an anti-st patrick 's day parade . and if you think about it , for a long time , you can indeed imagine such a thing , and what it might mean .  no doubt malcolm x and the nation of to free their black brothers in so many ways , not least to free them from their enslavement to alcohol and drugs , which were keeping them down just as the white man had done . perhaps it is time for us , my friends , to be envisioning a nation of paddy , the suits , the dark glasses , even the sobriety .  because paddy is now on his own . if he thinks that the irish ruling class will do anything for him , he is gravely mistaken . if we are being charitable , we will describe the irish ruling class as talentless . if we are being honest , we see them as disgracefully stupid and profoundly corrupt . much given to eejitry too , in their own way .  face it , paddy , you will be making this journey alone . and it will not be easy . but there are attractions along the way . the next time that you and your brethren from the nation of paddy go to a major football tournament , you may encounter a situation such outfits rolling drunkenly around the town square , thinking they 're great . and there will be men like you , dressed in suits and wearing dark glasses and demonstrably not drunk .  i wonder which of these would be more appealing to women ?  then again , paddy has traditionally used his alcoholic eejitry to take himself out of the battle of the sexes , out of that whole area in which he is deeply uncomfortable . in foreign fields in particular , with his green bodhran-banging , he is saying : " do n't mind me ladies , i am just an eejit . the italians are over there " .  if he sobered up , it would be a terrifying prospect , but the results could be spectacular . darker forces in our culture have always known that if paddy could only free himself from drink and eejitry , he would be a man to be reckoned with . so they have subverted that great longing for a better life , to their own ends .  the catholic church got in there in a , whereby if you stayed off the drink you would get points for heaven , a sort of a reward card that you could cash in after you were dead . the church knew that fellowships such as alcoholics anonymous have a certain spiritual dimension , and they did n't want to lose their grip on paddy in that way . so they had their own version , in which they could divert him away from such dangerous areas of enlightenment , and have him walking around in a state of white-knuckle sobriety wearing a pin in his lapel . supposedly it made him feel morally superior , but deep down he was still a prisoner . they still had paddy where they wanted him .  interestingly , in the 1830s , fr theobald mathew had started quite well , making common cause with the former slave frederick douglass when that campaigner for the abolition of human bondage visited cork . and , of course , paddy took the pledge in vast numbers , excited by the prospect of freeing himself from the oppression of his lord and master john equally interestingly , when fr mathew visited america to spread his otherwise excellent vision , he did not speak in favour of the abolition of slavery for fear of upsetting his powerful friends .  in more recent times , the corporate class came up with its own garbled version of a liberated paddy , one who could indeed be seen wearing a suit and even dark glasses and who was anxious to let everyone know that he got up early in the morning , feeling refreshed . but in that anxiety we could sense yet again that paddy was not  free . he was just pumped up with a new brand of bullshit , addicted now to the money game and to vainglorious notions of having the green , white and gold flying proudly over the great buildings of london . those guys wanted to be " characters " too , they wanted everyone to know that you 'll never beat the irish . they did n't realise that nobody gave a damn . it was , in the end , just more eejitry .  they will do it . this is about you , and you alone . and yet there are a million others just like you , in this nation of paddy . rise up now , paddy , rise up .