Remember, none of this catastrophe is the fault of bankers
http://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/shane-ross/shane-ross-remember-none-of-this-catastrophe-is-the-fault-of-bankers-26870877.html

The banking collapse was not your fault . It was an awful mistake . You did not lend recklessly . You are perfectly fit to run a bank .  On Thursday the Central Bank gave the all-clear to the surviving ghosts of the banking holocaust , the bankers who came through the 2008 massacre of Ireland 's banks , the slaughter of small shareholders , the penury of taxpayers and the crippled Irish economy .  Two guys who sat tight through the disaster , in which they were active participants , have been told to continue doing what they do worst -- run bankrupt banks .  Richie Boucher , chief executive of Bank of Ireland , and Kevin Murphy , retiring chief executive of Irish Life , have been cleared by the Central Bank as suitable guys to continue in the careers which they have pursued with such disastrous consequences for Ireland .  No one is saying that either Boucher or Murphy are dishonest . Far from it . But they are rich , very rich . Boucher receives a ? 690,000-a-year package Armageddon of 2008 .  While Boucher and Murphy became millionaires , their shareholders were being ruined . Bank of Ireland 's share price has fallen from over ? 18 to Friday 's level of just nine cent . Their dividends are no more .  Boucher was a director throughout the collapse . He was chief executive while much of the slaughter of his innocent shareholders was happening .  Irish Life 's share price fell from a high of ? 22.80 in 2007 to Friday 's level of just two cent while Kevin was a director . A board member since 1999 , he was made chief executive in June 2009 . The Central Bank has found that the duo are appropriate people to stay in the saddle .  Boucher 's dismal career at the B of I merited an early bath in 2008 -- immediate retirement without a six-figure compensation package . Instead , he was promoted . He became the overall boss in 2009 . His appointment was described by current minister Joan Burton as " a missed opportunity to signal a new development in the guard .  He said Boucher must have been responsible for " serious errors of judgment , including advancing loans to developers on the strength of overstated land values and insufficient security " .  Desmond 's fears were borne out . The share price has tanked under Boucher .  Boucher joined Bank of Ireland in 2003 and was made a full board director in 2006 . He was head of B of I 's Irish retail division and oversaw much of its land bank and development loans when they grew to ? 7.1bn . There is no record of him ever having held up his hand against the property madness .  ' Sean FitzPatrick and Michael Fingleton are perfectly fit to run banks '  Less than three months before September 30 , 2008 -- the day of disaster -- Boucher told an Oireachtas committee : " Unequivocally , we do not think that there is a Northern Rock in Ireland . "  He went on : " We do not believe that we have capital problems . The issues that we face are more down to former Financial Regulator Paddy Neary , who claimed that all the Irish banks were well capitalised , even as the foundations of the financial system were visibly shaking . Paddy lost his head for his trouble .  The Central Bank launched its review of bank directors , painting itself as the regulator that was going to change the system .  It was expected to clear out those who shared responsibility for the fiasco leading up to the property/banking collapse .  None have faced penalties . Some have been rewarded with massive redundancy packages . The survivors have been found fit for office .