Poll: Should the IRA apologise to all of its victims?
http://www.thejournal.ie/poll-should-the-ira-apologise-to-all-of-its-victims-505883-Jul2012/

poll : should the ira apologise to all of its victims ?  martin mcguinness has dismissed a report that former ira leaders are considering an apology . but do you think they should ?  scene of the ira bombing in enniskillen in 1987 which killed 11 people .  image : pa/pa archive/press association images  senior former ira figures are pushing for an unequivocal apology to be made to all ira victims , according to a report in the sunday business post .  the ira was responsible for killing around 1,800 people during the troubles .  although the ira has apologised before for the deaths of non-combatant civilians , it has never apologised for the deaths of persons considered ' legitimate ' targets .  however , northern ireland 's deputy first minister martin mcguinness has dismissed the apology report . he said last night on rt ? that if people are going to say sorry , " then everybody should say it collectively " , including the british government .  thejournal.ie is a full participating member of the press council . this scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . to contact the office of the press ombudsman lo-call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  please note that thejournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . for more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  journal media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify journal media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . journal media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.