Thursday night's Europa League round-up
http://www.rte.ie/sport/soccer/europa-league/2012/1108/344877-europa-league-round-up/

with a win enough to guarantee progression , atletico turned in a flat performance against the side lying 10th in the portuguese table , and a goal in each half from wilson eduardo gave academica victory .  while the result is still unlikely to affect the holders ' progress to the knockout stages , their status as group winners is now open to question after viktoria plzen joined them at the top on nine points .  the in-form czechs brushed aside hapless hapoel tel aviv 4-0 two goals from daniel kolar and one each for david stipek and marek bakos .  swiss side young boys blew the fate of group a wide open with a shock 3-2 win over serie a udinese in italy .  raul bobadilla opened the scoring for young boys in the 27th minute and despite antonio di natale 's equaliser , they regained the initiative through alexander farnerud and rapha nuzzolo .  diego fabbrini gave the italians late hope with an 83rd minute effort but their defeat leaves them stranded at the bottom of the table on four c with a 2-0 win over ael in turkey . dirk kuyt and moussa sow scored the goals while ael had edwin ouon sent off late on .  the turks ' hopes were boosted by a 2-2 draw between marseille and borussia monchengladbach , which leaves the two sides locked together on five points .  mike hanke put the germans ahead before goals from joey barton - direct from a corner - and jordan ayew turned the game in marseille 's favour . juan arango rescued a potentially crucial point in the third minute of stoppage time .  newcastle failed to grab the win they needed to guarantee qualification from group d but will be happy after fighting back for a 2-2 draw at club brugge .  ivan trickovski and jesper jorgensen gave the belgians a 2-0 lead inside the first 19 minutes before goals from vurnon anita and shola amoebi kept alan pardew 's men on track .  bordeaux stay second after david bellion 's 16th minute goal proved enough for them to see off maritimo 1-0 in france .  steaua bucharest kept control alexandru chipciu and iasmin latovlevici netting before daniel chima hit a late consolation .  goals from vedad ibsevic and martin harnik kept stuttgart 's hopes alive with a 2-0 win over copenhagen in denmark .  also in group f , aik gave themselves hope as a mohamed bangura goal gave them a 1-0 home win over psv .  rubin kazan and inter milan booked their respective places in the knock-out stages after securing victories which guaranteed their progress from group h.  vladimir dyadyun 's 19th-minute goal gave the russians a 1-0 win at neftchi while two second-half strikes from substitute rodrigo palacio helped inter end partizan 's hopes with a 3-1 triumph in belgrade .  fredy guarin also scored for the visitors , while nemanja tomic replied for partizan in injury-time . the group winners are likely to be determined when rubin face inter in russia in a fortnight 's time .  lyon maintained their 100 per cent record and ensured qualification from group i after beating last year 's runners-up athletic bilbao 3-2 in spain .  ukrainians metalist kharkiv confirmed their progress from , cleiton xavier and juan manuel torres scored for the hosts with borek dockal replying for the norwegians .  and bayer leverkusen will join metalist in the knockout stages after coasting to a 3-0 win over rapid vienna with goals from jens hegeler , andre schurrle and manuel friedrich .  hannover booked their passage from group l after a dramatic 3-2 win over helsingborg , who finished with nine men .  a double from mame biram diouf gave the germans a comfortable advantage before nikola djurdjic and alejandro bedoya dragged the score back level .  but the swedes had peter larsson and walid atta both sent off in the closing minutes before szabolcs huszti struck the winner with an injury-time penalty .  meanwhile , group rivals twente and levante drew 0-0 in holland .  marco streller scored an 80th-minute winner as basle kept their group g hopes alive with a 1-0 win over videoton , while group leaders genk needed an injury-time equaliser from glynor plet to rescue a 1-1 draw at sporting lisbon , who despite being down to 10 men due to the wolfswinkel goal .