Finn signs extension
http://www.shamrockrovers.ie/news/35-news/2674-finn-signs-extension

Finn signs extension  Rovers midfielder , Ronan Finn has signed a new deal which will see him contracted to the club until the end of the 2014 season .  The 24-year-old was contracted until the end of this season , having signed for the Hoops ahead of the 2011 campaign . But today ( Thursday ) put pen to paper on a further two year deal .  Finn has made 62 competitive starts for the Hoops in his 14-month period with the club so far , and is an integral part of manager , Stephen Kenny 's plans for the future .  Speaking about re-signing , Ronan said : " I 'm delighted to have re-signed . When Stephen said it to me the other day I was chuffed , so now to have it all done and dusted is great . I 'm now just looking forward to enjoying the rest of the season at the club knowing that the next couple of years are tied down .  " Security is a big issue in football , especially in this league used to be . So to sign a two year extension on top of this year is great .  " Playing for Shamrock Rovers is an honour , so to know I 'll be doing it for another two years is great . When you come here you realise how big the club is and once you 've played here , you do n't want to leave . "  Commenting on the re-signing , Kenny said : " I am delighted that Ronan has extended his contract here . He is an integral part of the future of Shamrock Rovers and I 've been very impressed by him since I joined the club .  " Actually one of the things that has impressed me most since I become manager of Shamrock Rovers is Ronan Finn and the talent he possesses .  " It is unique to have a central midfield player who can dribble at pace off either foot . There have n't been many players like that in a central midfield position in the league . It 's very exciting and as he gets stronger , full potential has yet to be realised , he can go on to be the most influential player in the league with the talent that he has . Ronan 's application is first class and he has huge desire to improve . It is great news for our club that he is going to remain here . "