Report: Hard times for self-employed
http://www.thejournal.ie/report-hard-times-for-self-employed-438438-May2012/

A new report says that more and more self-employed people are having difficulties in accessing credit and paying their mortgage and loan payments .  SELF-EMPLOYED PEOPLE are having growing problems with debt , accessing credit and paying off loans and mortgages , a new report shows .  Hard Times for the Self-Employed : The Citizens Information and MABS Experience was published by the Citizens Information Board today and launched by the Minister for Social Protection , Joan Burton TD .  It shows that Citizens Information Services are seeing more people using their services , while MABS is reporting growing problems of indebtedness among the self-employed .  Some of the key areas of concern include :  Absence of insurance cover for short-term unemployment and illness .  Changing scenario for employment and self-employment : The report points out that insurance cover may need to be extended to cover short-term contingencies like illness .  Difficulty of assessing means : Self-employed people are not entitled to Jobseeker 's Benefit or redundancy payments . However , they can apply for a means-tested Jobseeker 's Allowance people can be complex , so the report suggests that an additional mechanism for establishing means for JA is required .  Minister for Social Protection Joan Burton TD said she recognises " that self-employed people make a great contribution to the economy " and also recognises " that the current economic situation has been difficult for self-employed people " .  However , any measure to provide short-term benefits to those who are self-employed would have significant financial implications and would have to be considered within a budgetary context . An actuarial review of the Social Insurance Fund is currently underway and is expected to be completed by July 2012 .  Gerry Dowling , MABS Co-ordinator , Dundrum/Rathfarnham noted that 16 per cent of new clients to his service in 2011 were self-employed , compared to 10 per cent in 2010 and 4 per cent in previous years . He said a significant debt issue is inability to keep up mortgage payments .  Not all self-employed people are captains of industry . Many are cleaners , gardeners , taxi drivers and tradespeople who are applying skill and abilities now find their income potential eroded . However , they are in a ' Catch 22 ' situation where they need to continue to trade to provide cash for basic personal and family needs but in reality are trading more deeply into debt .  Dowling acknowledged the contribution of the newly formed CAVA ( Chartered Accountants Voluntary Assistance ) scheme which provides advice in business-related cases and has proved to be an invaluable referral service for both CISs and MABS .  Selfemployedsupports.ie is a microsite aimed at self-employed people who have seen a drop off in business and income during the downturn . Copies of the report Hard Times for the Self-employed : Citizens Information and MABS Experience are available online or by calling the Citizens Information Board on 01 605 9000 or emailing info@ciboard.ie .  TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie  Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy .  Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites.