Okpe Monarch mounts the saddle as Chancellor of Anambra Varsity
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2012/11/okpe-monarch-mounts-the-saddle-as-chancellor-of-anambra-varsity/

Okpe Monarch mounts the saddle as Chancellor of Anambra Varsity  THE Orodje of Okpe Kingdom in Delta State , HRM Orhue I , was last week installed the Chancellor of **25;0;TOOLONG , Uli at an impressive ceremony attended by many academicians and traditional rulers from various parts of the country .  The Orodje was also awarded hanonorary doctorate degree in law , LL.D of the university , along with the former Registrar of the West African Examinations Council , WAEC , and traditional ruler of Ndikelionwu in Anambra State , Professor Chukwuemeka Ike and former vice chancellor of University of Port Harcourt , Professor Sylvanus Cookie whose award was received by his son , Sylvanus Cookie Jr .  Anambra State Governor and Visitor to the state university , Peter Obi , and the Chancellor , Orhue 1 , the Orodje of Okpe kingdom , at the installation  The impressive ceremony also witnessed the conferment of bachelors and higher degrees to about 2000 persons who completed their studies in the institution .  The Orodje , who performed his first assignment as the Chancellor the university , Professor Elochukwu Amaucheazi , expressed gratitude to Governor Peter Obi , who is the Visitor to the university , for finding him worthy and credible to be appointed the chancellor .  He said : " I give God the glory for the privilege of the consideration by the university authority and approval of the appointment by the Visitor to the university , Mr. Peter Obi .  I feel particularly honoured to address this unique convocation in my capacity as the Chancellor . It is also with great pride and high sense of humility and personal fulfillment that I stand before you to perform my first official function at this very colourful ceremony . "  After speeches by the vice chancellor , the pro-chancellor and the governor , the new chancellor , to the delight of the mammoth audience , admitted over 2000 persons who had completed their post- graduate and undergraduate studies , as graduates of Anambra State University .  The Orodje said : " Today 's event ushers in another phase in the history of development of this university as it witnesses the students of the university , who have been found worthy in character and learning .  My perception of education is that it helps in liberating the mind , expanding horizon , developing potentials and dismantling myopic thoughts and undue individualism .  " It is through education and all its attendant advantages that made it possible for Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe , an illustrious indigene ofAnambraState , to liberate his mind from myopic ideas and undue individualism .  The great Zik saw and developed the bigger and larger map of social and growth ofNigeriaand indeedAfrica .  To the graduates , by your learning and experience , we expect you to turn yourselves to activities of a new socio-political order through the quality of your thought processes , your exemplary conduct and the nobility of your deeds . It is my humble belief and ardent prayer that the mission and vision of this institution on the Nigerian project are achievable in Jesus name -- Amen . "  Governor Peter Obi had during a courtesy call on him by the Orodje at the Governor 's Lodge in Awka , before for the position of Chancellor of the university was because of his credibility . Indeed , the search for a credible replacement for the former Chancellor of the university , Eze Clifford Nwuche , the Igbu Ukpata 11 of Ahoada Kingdom in Rivers State , who joined his ancestors last year , took Anambra State government and authorities of the university over two years .  Names pencilled for chancellorship  Many names were put forward , including those the governor knew and did not know and eventually when the name of Orodje of Okpe Kingdom was mentioned , Governor Obi knew that he had found the right person . He thereafter sent his commissioner for education , Dr. Uju Okeke and the vice chancellor of the university , Professor Fidelis Okafor to Okpe Kingdom to " beg him to accept the nomination . "  The governor told the Orodje : " For two years , we have been searching for a credible replacement for our former Chancellor , the late Eze Nwuche fromRiversState . To me , the Chancellor of a university should be somebody who merits it . , it was those who were very credible in the society that recommended you . Your choice is to help us reshape the university and bring it to limelight and we therefore want you to use your wealth of experience to build a better university . As your son , I will always welcome your advice . "  The visitor to the university , Governor Obi , who was elated at the calibre of personalities the Orodje attracted to the convocation ceremony , promised to increase the tempo of infrastructural development at the two campuses of the university at Igbariam and Uli . According to him , the investment to be witnessed in the university in the next one year would make it one of the best in the country .