three men of courage
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2012/11/three-men-of-courage/

three men of courage  By Bisi Lawrence It is a common belief that each year rolls on , albeit gently or turbulently , towards its end and then , in the " ember " months , suddenly bears many of " its children " away .  It is indeed curiously noticeable that the pace of mortality seems to quicken during the " ember " months , though it is understandable in traffic accidents due to the increase in the volume of travelling all over the country .  But away from accidents on the road and elsewhere , the icy hands of death still reach out , it would appear , more frequently to rob the populace of dear ones , especially among public figures . So it has happened this year with the demise of two notable politicians and one eminent jurist , among others .  Lam , Eso and Saraki  Death came to all of them in comparatively old age . Justice Kayode Eso , of the Supreme Court fame , died at 87 , nine days ago on the 16th away at 79 , on the 14th , and Lam Adesina , a former Governor of Oyo State , was 73 when he gave it all up on the 11th , all within one week of one another . They were not only associated in death , but also by a trait of courage in public life .  Lam Adesina was already identified with the title of a governor before he attained the position in Oyo State . He was what you might describe as a " cool customer " , straight forward and self-assured .  Always an activist , he had paid his dues before he went into real politics . He had by then outgrown the blessing or curse of a godfather . He occupied his office as the Oyo State Governor so well that he himself might be said to have become a godfather , so highly had his stature grown .  His aides still recount with admiration the way in which he faced down a former Head of State , noted for his hectoring style . Lam afforded him all the courtesy of his him in his position .  It was accounted an occasion of sound education for the former military leader who had arrived at the governor 's office with the evident intention of intimidating a " bloody civilian " governor .  In stead , he himself was reduced to an ordinary civilian who could do with better manners . That was a demonstration of sheer guts .  No less was it courageous of Justice Kayode Esho to deliver that minority judgment in the Awolowo versus Tafawa Balewa presidential wrangle . That the erudite jurist was above all forms of corruption in the discharge of his professional duties was very well documented in so many lawsuits .  But one of the defining cases -- in fact , the defining case to some people -- had to be that particular case . It was suffused with several significant features . Apart from the momentous character of its purpose which was to decide the person qualified for the foremost political position of the nation , it was the one in which the acceptability of fractionalized humanity would be canvassed , and which precedent in the arbitration of a lawsuit in our history . Justice Eso sat tight , immovable ; he stood upright , unshakable .  It was indeed a defining moment , a glorious moment , for integrity . Whatever one would like to say here has been recorded , and more , by the erudite first female SAN , who is an icon of the legal profession in her own right , Mrs Fola Sholanke , in this tribute which she gave in an interview , describing the late justice as " one of the best of the best on the bench : " He lived his life as a God-fearing man .  As a justice of the Supreme Court , he represented the golden age . His legal knowledge was awesome . He was always ready to help . The thought that he is no longer here is too painful to bear ... He was very cerebral . "  Erudition , yes ; integrity , yes ; but monumental courage too back it all up ..  Senator Olusola Saraki , the late Waziri of Ilorin , his early days would testify . His manifest concern for the underdog , and his " vibrancy and flamboyance " are typical Lagos traits .  His hectic political career , especially as a ranking member of the Senate , depicted the stature of a man of muscular courage and consistency of purpose . He did not invite conflict , but never avoided confrontation being always confident in the power of the good volition . That was the source of his strength -- and he was very strong .  As Babatunde Fashola , the Lagos State Governor , eulogized : " The consistency of his political views , which he always expressed very eloquently , was perhaps responsible for the leadership positions which he held in both the Senate , into which he was elected in 1979 under the banner of the defunct National Party of Nigeria , as well as the All-Peoples Party , of which he was the National Leader in 1998 , and the Peoples Democratic Party where his influence saw the election of his son , Bukola , as the Governor of Kwarra State in 2003 whose ' counsel is most certainly needed , particularly at this time when our budding democracy is cutting its teeth and taking its challenging steps towards consolidation " .  Nigeria will always need people like these , men of integrity and courage . They are role models at which we are seldom directed to look until they are gone and can be seen no more . A monument should be erected in marble to remind future generations of the valour of each of them