Touched By The Plight Of The Flood Victims In Ogbaru
http://www.thisdaylive.com/articles/touched-by-the-plight-of-the-flood-victims-in-ogbaru/130850/

the uli , anambra state-based daniel orjiako memorial foundation ( domf ) brought succour and relief to flood victims from atani , ogbaru , ogwu anioacha , ogwu ikpele , and osamala , all in ogbaru local government area of anambra state and their neighbours of akwa , usham , and okija in ihiala local government across the urashi river , a tributary of the niger river , when the foundation 's chairman , dr. ambrose bryant chukwueloka ( abc of ) orjiako , a catholic knight of saint gregory the great ( kssg ) and an officer the federal republic ( ofr ) visited them at their camps scattered in various places within ihiala lga .  the flood victims fall into two broad categories . unlike the refugees from ogbaru local government area whose houses and farmlands were submerged by the flood , the idps of ihiala area only had their farmlands and crops entirely washed off by the flood . though they are not refugees in the real sense of it as they still live in their houses , they nevertheless are all properly losses they suffered and therefore entitled to relief in one form or the other .  in the wake of the floods , these coastline dwellers , just like their counterparts in other flood affected areas of the country , suddenly found themselves seeking shelter wherever they could find one in the upland areas . at the earlier days about 2,500 internally displaced persons ( idps ) were crammed into one classroom block at the community primary school umudara in ihiala . another 1,000 refugees are still scattered across parts of the surrounding villages in ihiala including akwa and usham in uli . before the floods , these agrarian communities , lived off their farm lands and fishing . but within the space of one week of uncontrolled overflowing of the banks of the river niger , these coastline dwellers looked on helplessly as everything they had laboured for were submerged by floods .  however help came the way of the nearly 3,000 idps , penultimate friday as orjiako the tireless philanthropist and oil magnate , undertook a " mercy tour " of the affected areas personally handing out relief with them a lorry load of relief materials that included 150x50kg bags of rice ; 50x50kg bags of beans , several cartons of corned beef and sardines , 50 cartons of noodles , 20 cartons of tomato puree , five giant sacks of treated mosquito nets ( tmns ) , among other items .  orjiako who is also chairman of neimeth pharmaceuticals international , equally came with a separate delivery van that contained several cartons of niemeth branded drugs among them worm expellants , antiseptics , analgesics and various antibiotics .  among those who accompanied the philanthropist on the tour were the former member representing ihiala federal constituency hon. vitalis okafor , the two serving state assembly members , hon. tokas ohazulike ( ihiala state constituency 1 ) and hon. emeka anohu ( ihiala state constituency 11 ) respectively . also at hand was the chairman of ihiala local government council , hon. chinedu ukachukwu . from the religious were monsignor felix ojimba and some priests , as well as the principals of school of nursing and school of health technology both at our lady of lourdes hospital , our lady of lourdes came because , orjiako , himself an orthopaedic surgeon , insisted that the drugs must be warehoused at a dedicated hospital from where qualified medical personnel would administer treatment to the refugees to avoid drug abuse .  explaining the motive behind undertaking the tour personally , orjiako said the shocking pictures of the flood disaster moved him on television , while on a business trip abroad . he said although the seplat petroleum development company limited , an oil company which he is the chairman , had earlier donated lorry-loads of relief materials to anambra , delta , and kogi states through the respective state governments , he opted to undertake a tour of ihiala refugee camps because he comes from the local government and so needed to personally commiserate with the victims .  addressing the idps at umadara community primary school camp , which still holds 1,500 refugees from ogbaru lg , orjiako urged the victims to always pray and believe that they will ultimately overcome the present setback and return to their homes pretty soon . a spokesman of the refugees at umadara he said it was the first time they would receive such a high profile personal visit by any individual . orjiako visited the headquarters of ihiala lga and the usham camp where he met and commiserated with the refugees and equally distributed materials to them . in fact , he inspected some devastated farmlands washed off by the flood near usham .  earlier in a speech , the uli lg chairman , chief ukachukwu commended orjiako 's public-spiritedness and promised that all the items would be judiciously distributed to all the victims . ukachukwu said he has in place a medical team headed by a doctor who would liaise with our lady of lourdes hospital ihiala to ensure the refugees received medical attention as and when needed .  please leave your comment below . your name will appear next to your comment . we 'll also keep you updated by email whenever someone else comments on this page . your comment will appear on this page once it has been approved by a moderator .