Nothing new about Kutty's music
http://movies.rediff.com/review/2010/jan/07/south-tamil-music-review-kutty.htm

Nothing new about Kutty 's music  January 07 , 2010 14:55 IST  Director Mithran R Jawahar proved himself competent at remaking the hugely successful Adavari Matalaku Arthale Verule into Tamil 's Yaaradi Nee Mohini and this time , he 's returned to remake-land with Gemini Film Circuit 's Kutti ( originally Arya , in Telugu ) with Dhanush in the lead and Shriya Saran providing the romantic angle .  Music is tuned by Devisri Prasad , while Vivega and Thamarai share credit for the lyrics . Here 's a look at how the Tamil album has shaped up .  A brisk beat is the precursor to the lines , " If you keep smiling , you 'll be happy , if you do n't smile , you 'll get BP " of Life-E Jollythaan rendered by DSP and Raina . There 's a strong whiff of DSP 's other Telugu compositions , especially songs like Adada Adada from Santhosh Subramaniam . Interspersed with 80s club music , the song 's tone is peppy and youthful and while not exactly original , does get begins with a congenial mixture of harmonica and violins and you 're eagerly awaiting a heart-wrenching romantic song but what you get is a mostly English rehash of the previous number .  K K 's voice is melodious , but you get a bit tired of the Santhosh Subramaniam refrain shot with whistles and flutes , after a while . The lyrics are mostly humdrum , touching the travails of young love in a superfluous fashion .  It takes a minute for you to get adjusted to the convoluted grammatical structure of the next song . But in a DSP number , who even cares ?  With tunes liberally borrowed from Oh Oh Ethanai Azhagu from Adhe Kangal , Mukesh sings Nee Kadhalikkum Ponnu , which is all about the trials faced by a young man who follows his beloved with unrequited love in his heart .  It 's part kuthu , part synthesized music , casual beat with male vocals touching high notes occasionally -- but not exactly new .  With a slow , almost folksy beat begins the longest track in the album , rendered by Saagar in a nasal voice .  Mildly melodious , this is once again a mish-mash of previous numbers with a Telugu twang , mostly reminding you of the Nee Varumbothu number from Mazhai .  The second version of Feel My Love , with a guitar strumming pleasantly in the background , sounds much better than the previous , synthesized version .  The vocals have been given more importance , and you get the feeling DSP has let himself walk away from the beaten path here . The rhythm is casual , the sax works well and there 's no effort to bombard your ear-drums . An appealing number but you only wish there had been more like it .  And there it is ! The pseudo-rural folksy song , Kannu Rendum sung by Priya Hamesh and Mukesh , sounding remarkably close to Kulicha Kutralam from Duet .  Nothing much to say , except that it follows the usual pattern of such numbers , heavy on the percussion , ethnic instruments and colloquialisms .  Kutty follows DSP 's pattern to the hilt , with or two moments , everything has a you've-heard-it-before feel .