Rahman's Tamil album gets global premiere
http://movies.rediff.com/report/2010/jan/07/a-r-rahmans-tamil-album-gets-world-premiere.htm

rahman 's tamil album gets global premiere  sony music india 's foray into the tamil movie industry kicked off in style with the announcement of the world premiere of a r rahman 's tamil album , vinnaithaandi varuvaayaa ( vtv ) .  interestingly , this is the first tamil album from rahman after his double academy award win and just before the grammy awards scheduled for february12 .  vtv directed by gowtham menon stars silambarasan ( simbhu ) and trisha krishnan in the lead roles . the songs of menon 's last film vaaranam aayiram composed by harris jayaraj were also released by sony music . the album was a critical and commercial blockbuster .  coming back tovinnaithaandi varuvaaya , a sneak preview of its music was held in london on december 19 . the entire cast and crew including rahman , gautham menon , simbhu , trisha and all the singers were present .  " london was a great experience . we had a live unplugged performance of all the songs by the singers who have sung in the album . everybody felt it sounded very international which was hardly surprising considering the music is by rahman . the intention was to reach out to an international audience but we achieved more than that . we plan to do a road show with all the singers now . this show was a first of it 's kind . now the expectation about the film is tremendous and the pressure is on me , " says gautham menon .  vtv 's music cds and cassettes will be released across the world via amazon 's online retail store . the music will also be available digitally on itunes , nokia store , and iphone application .  this unique activity for vtv will be executed through an iphone music application ( app ) which will allow the users to stream and listen to the full-length songs from the film , download the songs , wallpapers and other movie related information .  this initiative is a first for an iphone application that is entirely based on movie ost by sony music . it is the result of the joint efforts by sony music studios , a chennai based software and mobile applications developer .  the service will be available to any registered user of iphone apps across the world . a user will be charged $1.99 for downloading the application facilitating unlimited streaming of the songs from the album and $2.99 to download the whole album .  dot com infoway ( dci ) has also made sure to restrict unauthorized sharing of the content through this unique application . a user who downloads the songs on his iphone or ipod will not be able transfer it to any other unauthorized device .  shridhar subramaniam , managing director , sony music india , says , " sony music has always been at the forefront of redefining music marketing . this initiative , which is a first in india , will enable a savvy generation of smart phone users to access streamed audio feeds over an active data connection . our efforts have always been to make the music reach its audience as , when and how they would want to enjoy it . we are quite certain that rahman 's fans and application " .  image : a r rahman receives a copy of vinnaithaandi varuvaayaa 's album presented by gautham menon ( right ) as trisha and silambarasan look on .