Ex-child soldiers bid farewell to Nepal Maoist camps
http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-45225120100107

ex-child soldiers bid farewell to nepal maoist camps  dudhauli , nepal by gopal sharma  former maoist child soldiers carry their belongings as they leave camp at dudhauli near kathmandu , january 7 , 2010 . teary-eyed but hopeful of a bright future , more than 200 former maoist child soldiers began leaving their jungle camp on thursday as part of a peace deal that ...  dudhauli , nepal teary-eyed but hopeful of a bright future , more than 200 former maoist child soldiers began leaving their jungle camp on thursday as part of a peace deal that ended a bloody insurrection four years ago .  the group is the first of nearly 4,000 former maoist soldiers , most of whom were under 18 when the peace deal was signed in 2006 , to leave remote jungle camps across nepal over the next month and try to begin a new life .  the move is considered crucial for peace in nepal , which is trying to write a new constitution after abolishing the monarchy in 2008 . but the fragile peace process has of the government in conflict with the president over their attempt to fire the army chief .  the next step would be integration and the rehabilitation of more than 19,000 maoist fighters who are still in un-monitored camps around the country .  " integration of the pla ( maoist army ) and the writing of the new constitution must go together . they can not be separate , " said maoist deputy chandra prakash gajurel .  wearing marigold garlands , the former child fighters left the camp , waving at maoist army commander pasang , who goes by one name , at the riverside camp about 100 km ( 60 miles ) southeast of kathmandu , capital of the himalayan nation .  the former child fighters , many in their 20s now , left in five buses for their villages , some seated on roof tops with bags in their laps and crying .  " i am very sad to leave other colleagues with whom we stayed for so long , " said 22-year-old laxmi gautam , who joined the maoist organisation five years ago . been abolished and nepal was now a republic .  " without struggle , that would not have been possible . i am proud of it , " said suhana rana , also 22 , as she left the camp .  the maoists were demanding financial aid for the children but the government has so far refused .  authorities said the united nations would support schooling for children for up to grade 12 , or vocational training , micro-enterprises and training as junior health workers .  " today marks the first step in the return to civilian life for thousands of nepalis who have been living in cantonment since 2006 , " said robert piper , a un resident representative in nepal .  " it is a tearful and proud departure . "  empty handed  the maoists had agreed to free the children last year but the process stalled as they squabbled with political rivals on how to rehabilitate them .  the maoists say the discharge is part of their commitment to peace , but have alleged that the government has so far failed to their villages empty handed .