Priority in India is greenfield projects
http://www.livemint.com/Home-Page/mmJ16MjPfTHquB1CXfMpoK/Priority-in-India-is-greenfield-projects.html

Priority in India is greenfield projects  Creating roots : Lafont says it 's important not to waste capital , and maximize efficiency to be able to earn higher returns . Rajkumar/Mint  Updated : Thu , Jan 07 2010. 11 52 PM IST  New Delhi : French cement maker Lafarge SA has completed a decade of operations in the Indian market , and reached an estimated $1 billion ( Rs4,590 crore ) in annual revenue . The company is now looking at building cement plants in Himachal Pradesh , Rajasthan , Karnataka and Meghalaya . Bruno Lafont , global chairman and CEO , Lafarge , said in an interview that while the company 's focus is on new projects , it continues to keep an eye out for any acquisition opportunities in the cement market . Edited excerpts :  I 'm coming regularly to India and what I 'm doing is , from time to time I spend almost half of my time in the operations and India is an important country for Lafarge -- not only because it is large already , but to see how the strategy is developing and how the landscape is changing .  Are you satisfied with the performance of the firm in India so far ?  I do not measure market share nationally . When you are talking about a ( sub ) continent , you have to look at it regionally . So market share is important regionally and it is even more true for us as we are in a local business . It 's a large country we are in , so we are looking at it regionally -- it 's true for the US , it 's true for Russia , it 's true for China -- and if I look back , to 1999 , I think we have invested very wisely and we have continuously improved the operation and continuously invested . We are achieving the results which we were expecting , may be more , and we are looking at opportunities , I think , wisely . Our goal is to be best building materials company in India . That requires a beginning and 10 years is not too much way to do business in the place is the right way and with that , having built strong teams and relying on strong and profitable assets then we can envisage growth with much more confidence .  Tell us about your regional performance and strategy .  We are present in India with our three businesses . So when you look at cement , it is true that the selected region in the beginning was the North-East . Our future developments will take us to other regions and we have selected one or two for the time being and we will grow through greenfield ( projects ) first . For ready-mix concrete , we made an acquisition last year and acquired the L&amp;T concrete business , which has a national coverage with 78 different ready-mix concrete plants . With this , we have a base to tap the construction market , and the last business we are in is plaster board . Plaster board is a new product for India ; we are at the beginning of the penetration of the new product . It is lighter and offers more insulation to install . We have started off our plant last year , around Delhi .  Has n't there been a delay in your expansion to other regions ?  Creating roots : Lafont says it 's important not to waste capital , and maximize efficiency to be able to earn higher returns . Rajkumar/Mint  We are building our cement plants for 50 years , so we have to be careful and reasonable in computing growth . That is the first challenge . Second , it 's good to be on time but it 's also good to be not too early . It 's not good to be too late , but you 've always some time to catch up if you 're delayed . What is important is really not to waste capital , to bring our operations to maximum efficiency , which we are doing , in order to be really able to maximize the return .  You have said that you expect consolidation in the Indian cement industry -- are you looking at acquisitions yourself ?  Lafarge , now worldwide , has a 70% is to serve those markets and to increase capacity when needed , and that is what we say an internal development programme on a very well diversified and well-balanced portfolio . Our strategy is to give priority to cement in emerging markets so if we want to develop , we will use the money for cement in emerging markets . That means that for India we have selected to grow further through greenfields . Why ? Because consolidation was not happening or was not happening in the way that would make sense for us . But that does n't mean that we will never take part in consolidation . Taking part in consolidation when you have a cement position somewhere is an opportunity because you can create synergies ; because you can have economies of scale ; you can optimise your network of production plants . You can spend more money to develop an efficient approach to customers and leverage also on innovation . That 's where it makes sense . I would say consolidation is always a quest . It does n't mean big acquisitions all the time but we , are acquisitions part of your growth plans in India ?  It 's not our priority today . Our priority is greenfield ( projects ) , but it does n't mean that if consolidation opportunities happen , we will not look them and take part in them . What is important for us is to extend our position and that can be by all ways . What I look at in the end is " what type of asset do I get ? " . And an asset is one cement plant at least , with enough reserves with a potential to deliver ( to ) its market within a set cost and with a potential for us to improve the operations .  Are there any offerings in the market which you are looking at ?  No , not right now . In fact , I do not expect a lot to happen very soon .