I play a hateful person in 'Karthik Calling Karthik': Ram Kapoor
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/47113/i-play-hateful-person-karthik.html

i play a hateful person in ' karthik calling karthik ' : ram kapoor  last updated : 16 january , 2010  udaipur , jan 16 ( ians )  popular television actor ram kapoor , who is sporting a new fit look after losing 11 kg , says he plays a mean and hateful person in his first mainstream bollywood film ' karthik calling karthik ' which also stars farhan akhtar .  " in ' karthik calling karthik ' , i play the biggest problem in farhan 's life . i play a bastard in the film - a mean , obnoxious , hateful person ... i ca n't disclose anything beyond this , " kapoor said .  " karthik calling karthik " also features deepika padukone and shefali shah . it has been produced by farhan and ritesh sidhwani .  kapoor , who was in this lake city for the launch of ndtv imagine 's show " rahul dulhaniya le jayega " that he will be hosting , says both his films -- " karthik calling karthik " and anurag kashyap  " these are two very interesting releases . both the films are very good -- just like i wanted to do -- very metro films . it 's the kind of cinema that always interests me and the kind of cinema that i like to go and watch . i have given myself completely to these films and everybody is talking well about them so far , " ram said .  the 36-year-old , who did a cameo in mira nair 's crossover film " monsoon wedding " in 2001 , says he is not taking on any major tv projects at the moment as he wants to see the fate of his movies first .  " at this point , it 's wise for me to wait for the releases to happen and then see if i get more cinema work like that . then i 'll take it on . but if i get the kind of cinema i have always happily refused , i will take on television again . i love doing tv and i am lucky that i have reached a level where .  the actor , popular for shows like " ghar ek mandir " and " kasamh se " , also says that tv means more business for him than being in cinema . " at my level , the money is fantastic in tv . in cinema , i 'm doing very good work with very good people , but the money that i make in cinema is not even one-tenth of what i make from tv .  " however , cinema is a choice i am gladly making because i consider it as a stepping stone . if i get the kind of work that i want , you will see me more in cinema ; if not , then i 'll be back to television , " he added .  asked about his noticeable weight loss , kapoor flashed a big smile and said : " i have lost 11 kilos . i just became serious about it . for the last three months , my eating is controlled , my drinking is controlled -- there 's no special formula or secret ( to it ) " this is something that i wanted to do for myself , my children , because it 's good to be healthy and it 's good even for my career . "  kapoor is currently gearing up for the second season of ndtv imagine 's " swayamvar " . this time , rahul mahajan , son of slain bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) leader pramod mahajan , has set out to search for a suitable life partner amongst 15 shortlisted women . the show will begin feb 1 .