Narayanan named Governor of West Bengal, Patil gets Punjab
http://netindian.in/news/2010/01/16/0004880/narayanan-named-governor-west-bengal-patil-gets-punjab

Narayanan named Governor of West Bengal , Patil gets Punjab  President Pratibha Patil today appointed National Security Adviser M K Narayanan as the new Governor of West Bengal while former Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil has been appointed as the Governor of Punjab and the Administrator of Chandigarh .  Mr E S L Narasimhan , the Governor of Chhattisgarh , has been transferred as the Governor of Andhra Pradesh for the remainder of his term , while Mr K Sankaranarayanan , Governor of Jharkhand , has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Maharashtra for the remainder of his term .  Shivraj Patil , M. K. Narayanan , E. S. L. Narasimhan  Mr Narasimhan was already functioning as the Governor of Andhra Pradesh as an additional charge after Mr N D Tiwari quit office after a television channel in the state aired a tape showing him allegedly in the company of three women .  Former Pondicherry ( now Puducherry ) Chief Minister M O H Farook will take Mr Sankaranarayanan 's place in Jharkhand while former Defence Secretary Shekhar Dutt will go Rashtrapati Bhavan communique issued late tonight said Ms Prabha Rau , the Governor of Himachal Pradesh , had been transferred and appointed as the Governor of Rajasthan for the remainder of her term . She was already functioning as the Governor of Rajasthan as an additional charge after the recent death of Mr S K Singh .  Ms Rau will be succeeded as Governor of Himachal Pradesh by senior Congress leader from Madhya Pradesh and the Chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes Urmila Singh , the communique said , adding that the appointments would take effect from the dates the new Governors assume their respective charges .  K. Shankar Narayan , Prabha Rau , Mohsina Kidwai  The names of the new Governors were finalised at a meeting between Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress President Sonia Gandhi here yesterday , at which other senior party leaders such as Ahmed Patel were also present .  Mr Narayanan , 75 , a former Director of the Intelligence Bureau , was until now a powerful figure in the Prime Minister 's Office . His expertise on all matters in West Bengal , which is facing serious problems from the Naxalite menace .  His shift to Kolkata will create a vacancy for the position of National Security Adviser ( NSA ) , for which the Prime Minister is understood to have short-listed two persons - former Foreign Secretaries Shiv Shankar Menon and Shyam Saran .  The new NSA will have truncated responsibilties , with the functions related to internal security likely to be handled by the Home Ministry , as envisaged by Home Minister P Chidambaram in the new architecture for security proposed by him recently .  Mr Patil had resigned as Home Minister after the November 26 , 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai and his appointment as Governor of Punjab will bring him back into active political life . He will succeed former Chief of Army Staff Gen ( Retd . ) S F Rodrigues .  Mr Sankaranarayanan , a Congress leader from Kerala , was originally appointed as the Governor of Nagaland and was shifted some months ago to Jharkhand . He will succeed Mr S C Jamir in Maharashtra .  Shekhar Datt from three terms as Chief Minister of Pondicherry , Mr Farooq has served as a Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation and Tourism in the P V Narasimha Rao government and also as India 's Ambassador to Saudi Arabia .  Like Mr Narayanan , Mr Narasimhan is a former director of the Intelligence Bureau .