52 injured in 'jallikattu' in TN
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/47232/52-injured-jallikattu-tn.html

52 injured in ' jallikattu ' in tn  last updated : 16 january , 2010  chennai , jan 16 , dhns :  a record 399 bulls and 650 tamers participate in festival  the biggest ' ' jallikattu ' ' ( bull taming ) at alanganallur in madurai district on saturday left 52 people injured , six of them critically , as a large crowd of over 40,000 , including foreign tourists , cheered the rustic sport with gusto .  as a record 399 bulls , all dressed for the occasion with their horns painted in different colours , charged wildly into the game-play area one after another , nearly 650 bull tamers vied for the day 's honours to seize the bulls by their hump and run a certain distance as proof of having subdued them. ?  while several bull-tamers were badly bruised trying to rein in the bulls on the run , the six seriously injured were rushed to government rajaji hospital in madurai , sources at alanganallur said .  among those admitted to ? hospital , three persons speeding out of the arena .  ? after customary " poojas " to the local village deity , muniyandisami , the festivities were flagged off by union fertiliser minister m k azhagiri . the bull-taming in batches , went on till about 4 pm .  the madurai district authorities took care to abide by the supreme court guidelines in regulating the event and hence the casualty was lower this year , the sources said . the regulatory measures included double barricading of the play area so that spectators do not jump in frenzy along with the bull-tamers .  veterinary doctors also examine the bulls before play to ensure that they were not high ? on any intoxicants fled by the bull owners , particularly when the prize-money stakes are high at alanganallur .  the bull-tamers are also given uniforms for the event to easily mark them out from the rest that facilitates easy removal in case of injuries , sources said , adding there was no major untoward incident on saturday .  the bulls ' horns are blunted as a safety measure , even as tamers had lifted the blanket ban on " jallikattu " , while imposing strict conditions . these are overseen by representatives of the animal welfare board of india . scores of others have also been injured in this rural sport in other districts as well .