Rum bottle thrown at Malaysia mosque amid tension
http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/rum-bottle-thrown-at-malaysia-mosque-amid-tension/article81279.ece

rum bottle thrown at malaysia mosque amid tension  the entrance gate of st. elizabeth church , which was splashed with red paint , is seen in kota tinggi of johor state , malaysia , on thursday . vandals splashed a church with paint as burglars ransacked a law firm defending christians in their fight to use the word " allah , " adding to religions tensions in muslim-majority malaysia , police and officials said on thursday . photo : ap .  vandals threw a rum bottle at a mosque in the first attack on a muslim house of worship after almost a dozen similar assaults on churches in malaysia the past week , police said on saturday .  police have dismissed the attacks as vandalism , but they have caused disquiet in multiracial malaysia and raised fears of more widespread religious tensions .  one sikh temple and 11 churches have been hit - most of them with molotov cocktails - since january 8 . one church was partially gutted , though the others sustained only minor damages . no arrests have been made that allowed non -- muslims to use the word " allah " to refer to god . the verdict upset muslims who make up 60 percent of malaysia 's 28 million people . the government has argued allowing christians to use the word will confuse muslims and entice them to convert .  the bottle was thrown at a mosque in eastern sarawak state late friday and found smashed near an outer wall inside the compound , said local police chief abu bakar mokhtar . he said they did n't know if it contained any alcohol when vandals threw it . most muslims consider alcohol illegal .  mr. abu bakar blamed " naughty boys " for the incident .  in the latest church attack late friday , vandals smashed a window of a church in southern negeri sembilan state , said saiful azly kamaruddin , a district police chief .  he said the attack also appeared to be vandalism , and added police have stepped up patrols and deployed more plainclothes officials in the area .  the unrest centres on the court ruling , in which the in malaysia , argues it has the right to use the word " allah " in its malay -- language edition because it predates islam and is commonly used by christians in other predominantly muslims countries , such as egypt , indonesia and syria . it is also used in malay -- language bibles .  the government has condemned the attacks and assured christians , who make up some 9 percent of malaysia 's population , they are safe .  but the attacks are n't abating . the office of lawyers representing the herald in their legal fight was also ransacked earlier this week .  in 2016 , elections take place in the u.s. , russia , taiwan , peru and the democratic republic of congo . fifa selects a new president to replace sepp blatter , japan and china host g7 and g20 summits , ... ?