Indigenous Tejas combat jet to feature at Republic Day parade
http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/indigenous-tejas-combat-jet-to-feature-at-republic-day-parade/article94642.ece

Indigenous Tejas combat jet to feature at Republic Day parade  A decade after it first took to the skies , the indigenously designed and built Tejas light combat aircraft ( LCA ) will feature for the first time at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Tuesday -- but only as a replica .  " A model of Tejas will be on display for the public . Though there are seven LCA aircraft in flying condition , they will not be a part of the fly-past at the R-Day parade this time , " an official of the Defence Research and Development Organisation ( DRDO ) that is displaying the Tejas on its tableau , told IANS .  Designed and developed by DRDO 's Aeronautical Establishment Agency ( ADA ) and built by state -- run Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd ( HAL ) , Tejas is a compact , lightweight , supersonic , multi -- role combat aircraft .  Test pilots of HAL and the Indian Air Force ( IAF ) have so far flown about 1,200 sorties of the prototypes , including  DRDO will also for the first time showcase the Shaurya strategic missile , along with the Rohini radar , at the parade .  Mounted on Tatra vehicle , the 500-kg surface-to-surface Shaurya has 700-km range and can be launched from fixed as well as mobile launchers . Boosted by a solid propellant rocket motor , the warhead moves at hypersonic speeds .  The ground-based Rohini is three-dimension radar for airspace surveillance , with 180-km range and high-altitude coverage .  " The radar is capable of detection and tracking hundreds of air targets , even in a hostile environment , " the official noted .  The radar has been inducted into service .  Also on display will be the indigenously developed Agni-III intermediate range ballistic missile mounted atop an armoured vehicle . With a 3,500-km range , the missile provides vital deterrence capabilities to the Indian defence forces .  In addition , the Indian Army contingent at the parade will showcase the DRDO designed Arjun main battle tank , the Samyukta integrated electronic warfare system , the Sarvatra multi-span mobile bridging system and an armoured @ @ @ @