Britain to help restructure Nepal Army
http://www.brahmand.com/news/Britain-to-help-restructure-Nepal-Army/3147/1/10.html

pak in talks with us to buy f-16s : air chief : -pakistan is in negotiations with the us to procure the latest f-16 fighter jets and by 2020 it will phase out some of its old combat aircraft , including mirage , air chief marshal sohail aman has said . ...  britain to help restructure nepal army  a file photo of nepalese army undergoing military training . a nepalese army photo .  kathmandu ( pti ) : britain is willing to modernise and restructure the nepalese army and its defence ministry to make it more efficient , even as both the nations stepped up cooperation in the field of military , official sources said .  british army chief gen. sir david julian richardsan , who was here on a six day official visit , expressed british army ? s willingness to provide assistance to nepal army for its efficient management and to help restructure the defence ministry , according to defence ministry sources on wednesday .  during his meeting with defence minister vidya devi bhandari , richardsan said that britain wants countries .  british army will send a team to nepal to discuss matters relating to providing necessary cooperation to nepal army and defence ministry soon after his return to uk , said richardsan , who left kathmandu on wednesday , wrapping up his visit to nepal .  the british army chief called on president ram baran yadav on wednesday at the rastrapati bhawan .  he also called on prime minister madhav kumar nepal and met senior officials including nepal army chief chhatra man singh gurung .  russia is a strong and reliable friend of india and both countries have a " truly strategic " partnership , prime minister narendra modi has told president vladimir putin at the annual summit talks even as the two sides have negotiated major deals in defence , energy and other key areas .  brahmand world defence update 2015  tag cloud  image gallery  about us  brahmand.com is a dedicated online defence &amp; aerospace news portal . the website gives a complete , swift and day-to-day coverage of all latest happenings in the world of defence and aerospace in  our aim is to become an internationally renowned web portal providing timely and accurate information to our readers from around the world .