Raj Thackeray not to disrupt screening of My Name is Khan
http://www.topnews.in/law/raj-thackeray-not-disrupt-screening-my-name-khan-27676

Mumbai , Feb. 11 : Giving a new twist to the ongoing controversy over screening of Bollywood movie ' ' My Name Is Khan ' ' , Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray on Thursday said that his outfit would not disrupt the screening of the film .  Raj Thackeray , the estranged nephew of Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray , slammed the latter 's party for targeting Shah Rukh Khan but not saying anything to Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan , who shared the dais with Pakistan artistes a few days ago .  " I am not very close to Shah Rukh nor am I close to Amitabh Bachchan . But still I can not figure out why the Shah Rukh versus Sena ( Shiv Sena ) issue has been blown out of proportion . However , I just need to bring such contradictions to your notice that I am not going to stage any protests on this issue , " said Raj Thackeray .  Thackeray also criticized Khan saying that though he was vocal about his support to Pakistan players , he had team , the Kolkata Knight Riders ' ' .  Thackeray further questioned that why there weren ' ' t any complaints against Amitabh Bachchan , who shared the stage dais with Pakistan artistes .  " Amitabh refused an Australian award due to Indian students being attacked in Australia , then how can he share the stage with the Pakistan artiste , who hails from the land of the militants who attacked Mumbai on 26/11 ? " Raj Thackeray demanded .  ' ' My Name is Khan ' ' has already been targeted by Shiv Sena , which triggered a debate that resonated across the country last week , after it criticized the film ' ' s star , Shah Rukh Khan , for saying that Pakistani players ought to have been included in India ' ' s cricket league .  Shiv Sena activists have been targeting theatres and warning theatre-operators to not screen ' ' My Name is Khan ' ' , which releases on Friday ( February 12 ) .  Activists have already vandalized many cinemas in Mumbai , even though there were showing other effigies of Khan , and tore down posters of the film and burnt them all across India ' ' s western state of Maharashtra .  Khan , who was on a promotional tour in New York and London , has said that he stands by his statement .  Fox Star Studios bought the distribution rights for ' ' My Name Is Khan ' ' , in what is said to be the biggest distribution deal in Bollywood . Trade analysts say there are at least 1.2 billion rupees ( nearly $25.9 million ) riding on the film and if the Mumbai-Maharashtra circuit is affected , it would affect almost 25 percent of the film ' ' s cinema revenues .  In the film , Shah Rukh Khan plays a man with Asperger ' ' s Syndrome who is a victim of the anti-Muslim bias in the US in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks . ( ANI )