Chennai, the Detroit of Asia?
http://business.rediff.com/slide-show/2010/jun/30/slide-show-1-auto-is-chennai-the-detroit-of-asia.htm

chennai , the detroit of asia ?  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  chennai is home to global and indian auto majors like bmw , ford , hyundai , mitsubishi , nissan , ashok leyland , tvs group , et cetera . it also has almost 35 per cent of india 's share of auto ancillary units .  so why has chennai emerged as the detroit of south asia ? there are many reasons , not the least of which is the tamil nadu government 's investment-friendly industrial policy .  with an impressive growth of 26.42 per cent last year , india is the second fastest growing auto market in the world , next only to china that grew at a scorching 42 per cent .  there is a lot to cheer about for india if you look at what the confederation of indian industry survey of auto ancillary companies ( q2fy2010 ) says : ' india is estimated to have the potential to become one of the top five auto component manufacturing economies by 2025 . '  ' the global auto component outsourcing market , which is expected to be worth $700 billion by 2015 . with the spiralling demand from the domestic and international auto companies , the industry is emerging as one of the fastest growing manufacturing sectors in india and globally , ' the survey notes .  the society of indian automobile manufacturers ' statistics show that auto exports from india rose by 49.59 per cent last year . the cii survey also says that india 's exports of auto components would grow to $4.5 billion this year , compared with $1.8 billion in 2005 .  click next to read on . . .  image : hyundai cars ready for shipment at a port in chennai.photographs : reuters  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  export of two-wheelers , which account for about 77 per cent of the total automobile production in india , grew at 49.11 per cent , while the export of passenger vehicles -- which account for over 15 per cent of the total auto sales in the country -- grew by 10.23 per cent in may as compared also interesting to note that the country 's second-largest bike maker bajaj auto showed a 51.23 per cent increase in exports while tvs motors ' exports rose by 50.89 per cent .  why india grew while the us and europe suffered  yezdi nagporewala , head of automotive , kpmg india , cites reasons why the auto sector in india grew while the global automotive sector suffered . ' while developed countries have passenger vehicle penetration at 600-800 per 1,000 population , india is at an overall level of 10 per 1000 population . the low base combined with a growing middle class population has sustained india 's growth . '  ' in 2008-09 , the indian passenger vehicle market was growing at 15 per cent before the downturn hit in october 2008 . the subsequent quarter saw a period of de-growth . indian passenger vehicle market recovered in 2008-09 to have a growth of 3-4 per cent in 2008-09 over 2007-08 . the pent up demand resurfaced in 2009-10 and each quarter saw significant jumps over previous quarters . the low base in 2008-09 has enabled a growth of india released a stimulus package in 2008-09 to counter the recessionary trends . this included providing excise benefits to indian automotive oems ( original equipment manufacturers ) , ensuring auto loan rates remained low . auto oem 's managed to pass on the benefits to the end customers . this was coupled with a series of new models launched which created excitement in the market . '  ' recessionary trends elsewhere enabled a low cost country like india to clock significant export numbers . india is primarily a hatchback ( small car ) market . there was increase in demand for hatchbacks during the previous two years in europe and india benefited as it is emerging as a significant low cost manufacturing hub for hatchbacks. 30 per cent of all passenger vehicles manufactured in india were exported . this also added to the growth in production of indian automotive oem 's . '  click next to read on . . .  image : american flags fly in front of general motors corp . world headquarters in detroit , michigan.photographs : reuters  chennai , the detroit of . out of these 15 are located in the southern states of the country . this shows that one-third of the concentration of the auto industries in india is in the four southern states .  in the southern states of india , there are about 74 projects which are at different stages from planning , implementation , or deferred . of these , tamil nadu has the maximum number of projects ( 38 ) , followed by 24 in karnataka , 10 in andhra pradesh , and 2 in kerala .  ford was the first global auto manufacturer to come to chennai , and it was followed by many more . the latest to enter is nissan . on being asked whether he was happy and satisfied with chennai , the ford india managing director , michael boneham , said , " yes , we are satisfied . you have a very stable government and legislative environment . there is a transparent industrial policy no matter which political party is in power . you have governments very supportive of the industry . the second thing is the availability of . overall , we are very happy with our experience in tamil nadu . "  but he was not that excited about the state of infrastructure . " i would n't say i am happy . there are still significant challenges in power , in terms of road , rail , etc . the governments are trying to improve the infrastructure but we would like to see real evidence of them improving it on an ongoing basis , in a very sustainable and quick basis . "  kiminobu tokuyama , chief executive and managing director , nissan motor india pvt ltd , also expressed similar kind of views though his experience in chennai is short .  " i do n't think we chose chennai because the other international players have been here for some time . not just chennai , but bengaluru too has a good supplier base . in fact , the entire southern area has a good supplier and good technology base . the quality of labour also is quite good in this part . also , there is a strong support from the state government is being improved . "  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  nissan is quite satisfied so far with the progress of the project as they could finish the plant in a record 21 months from the start . the managing director admitted that it was a record for even nissan to build such a huge manufacturing plant in such a short period .  the company plans to export 110,000 cars in the first year , and it will go up to 180,000 the next year . and for the domestic market , they plan to hit 100,000 units per year .  " we had all the expertise but we would not have been able to achieve this without the support of tamil nadu government and the labour force . "  when the nissan team met the tamil nadu deputy chief minister m k stalin , they appreciated the support the government of tamil nadu had given so far and then requested the government to improve the road conditions .  " the infrastructure has to improve . as you know , we will start shipping indian market and for exports from our oragadam plant . so we need good roads for speedy delivery . infrastructure is one area that has to improve . "  another auto company that is happy with chennai is bmw that has set up base in the mahindra city near chennai .  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  abhay dange , general manager press and corporate affairs , bmw , says , " the first reason why bmw chose chennai was because of the infrastructure provided by mahindra city and chennai . then , the logistics like the facilities at the chennai port . the single window clearance offered by the tamil nadu government attracted us and supported us . the experience in chennai has been quite good so far . mahindra world city is an excellent place . there may be power problems in other places but not in mahindra world city . "  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  ford 's michael boneham , however , does not agree with the observation that chennai is the detroit of asia .  " i this manner . but there are a number of automotive hubs in india , like pune , and in haryana and gujarat , etc . my view is that it is good to have balanced development of the automotive sector across the country , not just in one area . "  yezdi nagporewala observes , " chennai has the potential to become one of the top three automobile hubs in the world . today , chennai accounts for 30 per cent of india 's share of automobile industry and 35 percent of india 's auto components segment .  " however , despite being around 60 years old , the domestic auto industry lags behind other countries like south korea , brazil and mexico in terms of production and sales . while it attracts lot of foreign direct investment due to its cost competitiveness , it is yet to match chinese cost structure and the ease of conducting business . "  " further , while chennai has catapulted itself to be a manufacturing hub , its research and technological spend is much lower than its asian peers . accordingly invest significantly in research and development , " says nagporewala .  " also to maintain its global competitiveness , the government has to continuously work on developing infrastructure in the cluster . infrastructure poses the most visible and obvious challenge for chennai 's development today . considerable investment is required to improve the city 's rail , road and port infrastructure , " nagporewala adds .  chennai , the detroit of asia ?  " as per the eleventh five-year plan report , in the next seven to eight years , the automotive sector in chennai is expected to grow into a business of $15-20 billion with nearly 500,00 additional jobs . the sheer scale of operations will create availability of talent as a major constraint . "  so , the question is , does that qualify chennai to be the detroit of asia ?  future of the auto industry :  according to the cii survey , the indian automotive industry is expected to grow at the rate of about 13 per cent per annum over the next decade to reach a size of around $165-175 component industry is also expected to grow at 12 per cent over the next decade to reach around $160 billion by 2016 .  nagporewala predicts a growth of 12-14 per cent over the next 5 years for the indian passenger vehicle market . export sales will grow at a rate higher than domestic sales .  according to tokuyama , the indian market will soon reach 3 million cars and in a few years ' time , it will reach 5-6 million cars . " there is a huge potential for indian growth . the total market will , anyway , be growing but if you compare segment by segment , the small car segment will grow faster than the other segments . "  michael boneham also agrees with the view that it will be the small car segment that will grow the most . " we expect the segment to grow by 20 per cent year over year . that is the growth that is sustainable . i expect double-digit growth for the next 4-5 years . then , you have to wait and see . whether the depends on a number of other factors . but i am quite confident that we will see substantial double-digit growth in that segment . "  " to be frank with you , " adds boneham , all other segments in the automobile industry in india are also growing . that is good news for manufacturers and customers because they are getting much more choice now . "  he also said that " india will be one of the three countries that will have the highest growth . we see significant growth potential here provided infrastructure keeps up with the opportunity for growth and demand . i do n't see any reason why india ca n't be the fastest growing market globally . but it has a long way to go . "  image : car containers wait at a port to be shipped out.photographs : reuters