'Hacker' application on Facebook stealing users' personal info
http://www.topnews.in/law/hacker-application-facebook-stealing-users-personal-info-224151

melbourne , aug 18 : a new tool called facebook hacker is doing the rounds on the social networking website . the tool tricks users into sending their personal information to the sender .  according to news . com . au , facebook hacker sends other people an executable file ( . exe ) that , if clicked on , will steal their login details and secretly email it back to the sender .  and unlike programs that secretly monitor keystrokes to steal passwords and logins , this one doesn ' ' t require the victim to type anything at all .  according to security blog malware city , the tool can extract info by just searching for key words saved by the user ' ' s web browser .  the solution is to disable auto-remember or auto-complete features in all programs -- including your web browser , said asia pacific head of technology at sophos paul ducklin .  another trick is to keep different passwords for different accounts -- most people keep same passwords for all their accounts .  this , they could have access to your email or other sites as well .  currently , facebook is facing other issues within -- the ' like ' button , which when clicked , signs the user as a fan and promotes it to all their friends , the bait-and-switch scam and the more recent ' install dislike button ' that milks the user 's profile .  nearly all these scams entice users with the promise of an outrageous video clip or story , as long as they complete a survey first .  when you complete the survey , the scammer gets a commission . but even if you don ' ' t , the rogue application has already accessed your data and implanted itself in your account .  " the internet is fun but that does n't mean you have to throw caution to the wind , " said ducklin , commenting that although security seems to be an ever-growing issue , people too have to be equally responsible and sensible . ( ani )