Bid on a private gym session with Salman Khan on eBay India
http://www.afaqs.com/news/company_briefs/?id=46239_Bid+on+a+private+gym+session+with+Salman+Khan+on+eBay+India

bid on a private gym session with salman khan on ebay india  on the occasion of the joy of giving week , ebay india announced a special charity auction where one can bid for a private gym training session with bollywood actor salman khan . the charity auction started on sunday , september 19 , 2010 and will end on sunday , september 26 , 2010 with all the proceeds benefiting the research society which aims to provide care , counseling , education , training and rehabilitation to special children . bidding on the auction starts at rs. 1,001 . salman fans all over the world can log onto www.ebay.in/jgw to bid and win this unique opportunity to meet and train with salman khan .  as part of the gym session , salman khan will work out with the highest bidder and provide valuable inputs on fitness which need to be followed to achieve a chiseled physique .  speaking about the initiative salman khan said , " i will spend quality time with the person that bids generously . all the money is going offering some valuable fitness techniques to the participant . i feel honored to be supporting such a noble cause with all proceeds going to the research society " .  mrs. tehmi shroff , ( hon ) administrative director , the research society says , " salman is an iconic figure today with one of the best physiques in the industry . this is truly a unique ' do good , feel good opportunity ' - while you spend quality time with salman khan where he shares with you his special techniques and secrets to a great body , you also help children with mental retardation live a better quality of life . "  " salman is a popular bollywood actor and we are confident that this auction will garner a lot of interest from his fans . we are excited to partner with salman and the research society in their efforts towards uplifting the lives of special children . we encourage all salman fans to bid on the auction on ebay india and support this noble cause " said deepa thomas , senior manager -pop culture , ebay india ebay india during the joy of giving week .