Adventure in the hills
http://www.thehindu.com/features/metroplus/nxg/adventure-in-the-hills/article828298.ece

The two-day- trip to the misty hills of Coorg was a memorable experience with rappelling , night drives , kayaking and above all an opportunity to make new friends .  Have you ever been on a trip with people you knew nothing about ? Ever knew what a family outside your family feels like ? Well , I had n't . At least not until the most memorable trip of my life -- The National Management School Outbound Programme for students at Coorg . The two-day-trip was part of our orientation , designed to enable us to bond better , discover something new about ourselves , and merge into a team .  Thrilling day  An overnight trip from Chennai and a few hours of rugged drive brought us to the camp site . Our program facilitators greeted us and helped us settle in quickly . After a quick lunch we departed for rappelling on a waterfall . Topaz , our main facilitator , gave us a demo on rappelling .  After a brief explanation on the harness , and an inspirational speech , did us a world of good by giving us the motivation needed to do the ' impossible ' .  We descended to the base of the fall with great caution . After we all re-assembled at the top , Topaz asked four of us to volunteer for a task -- two of us are to be rescued and two to be the rescuers . I thought it was going to be cakewalk , but half way down , I realized I had bitten off more than I could chew . By God 's grace we somehow reached the bottom in one piece ! This exercise really gave me a new perspective on team-work . After a tiring session , we returned to the camp site , freshened up , and readied ourselves for the bonfire-dinner . The facilitating team -- Topaz , Ashley and Sagar -- joined us for dinner and very soon had us all sharing about ourselves ; even things we never thought we would talk about . Soon , I realised this random batch of strangers was beginning to be like my family . After dinner , us earlier that Sagar would take us around the winding roads of Coorg at 80kmph ! " That 's rubbish " I thought , but it soon became evident that Topaz was n't joking . ' A hair-raising experience ' would be an understatement . A steep drop on one side , and this guy was doing 80kmph with his headlights switched off ! Scary as it may sound , it was one of the best experiences of my life . We had enough thrills for one day , and so we decided it was time to hit the sack .  Kayaking  The next morning we planned some water sports , but the rain and the swelling waters compelled us to do a milder but equally engaging activity -- -- kayaking . We had no time to lose . The following session was the final piece . Topaz gave us an hour long motivational speech.I 've heard many motivational speeches , but what set this one apart was the personal nature of his talk .  I know it 's a clich ? , but all good things must back to Mysore seemed to take forever . But at the end of the day , we had to get back to reality . And when I look back at those two days , I feel the programme helped me to improve my personality and to bond well with the classmates with whom I will be spending the next two years . I wish we had spent more time at the camp , and I hope to go on more trips with my new found family at The National Management School .