All eyes on Anand nagarpalika polls now
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vadodara/All-eyes-on-Anand-nagarpalika-polls-now/articleshow/6743988.cms

all eyes on anand nagarpalika polls now  prashant rupera tnn  after the elections for the six municipal corporations got over , the attention has shifted to nagarpalika polls . in anand district , where elections for the board of five nagarpalikas are scheduled on october 21 , the battle to capture the civic body of anand town is likely to be intense .  tnn oct 13 , 2010 , 10.16 pm ist  vadodara/anand : after the elections for the six municipal corporations got over , the attention has shifted to nagarpalika polls . in anand district , where elections for the board of five nagarpalikas are scheduled on october 21 , the battle to capture the civic body of anand town is likely to be intense .  interestingly , it is for the first time that congress has fielded party candidates instead of declaring outside support to independents . for 42 seats of the 14 wards of anand nagarpalika , a total of 146 candidates are in fray . while bjp has nominated 39 candidates , congress has fielded 42 candidates . are 59 independents in the fray . so , though it is a direct fight between bjp and congress for most of the seats , the poll battle is turning interesting thanks to the presence of independents .  of the 39 candidates fielded by the bjp , the party has repeated 17 of its councilors . those denied tickets by the party this time include former nagarpalika president jayraj patel and former deputy president and old rss hand ghanshyam khatri . another former bjp councillor chetan patel alias akku , who was suspended from the party recently , is now contesting as an independent .  sources suggest that a majority of candidates fielded by bjp are supporters of vijay patel alias master who had joined the bjp after contesting the last elections under an independent banner - vikas manch .  it was thanks to the support of 12 independents , led by vijay master , that bjp which had bagged 19 seats after the 2005 elections , and managed to form a board in the civic body .  for the first time , three syndicate members of polls . while spu 's syndicate member dc patel is leading the congress panel , bjp 's sitting councillor and syndicate member pragnesh patel is also in the fray . this apart , bipin vakil , who is president of education trust anand people 's medicare society and also a syndicate member , is contesting the polls under the banner of sarvapakshiya dal .  related  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  from around the web  more from the times of india  recommended by colombia  comments  characters remaining : 3000  or proceed without registration  share on twitter  sign in with  facebookgoogleemail  refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . let 's work together to keep the conversation civil .