Launch Of New UK Christian Music Magazine
http://www.greatreporter.com/content/launch-new-uk-christian-music-magazine

The magazine is available to purchase now at **29;288;TOOLONG and soon from major Christian booksellers , with a view to getting the magazine on the newsagent shelves .  " It 's about time " says Editor/Owner Dee Blackmore . " There are no Christian Music magazines on the shelves at the moment and I do n't know why this is the case . I would love to see my magazine sit alongside the NME , and Mojo in the ' Music ' section . Some people say it is too niche , but so is classical music and its there . "  " It has long been my intention to showcase to anyone who wants to listen , the variety and quality of ' Christian Music ' and this meaning ' music made by Christians ' . There is no such thing as ' Christian Music ' per se , unless you 're defining it as ' Worship Music ' , or ' Gospel ' . I 'd like to say to Christians and Non-Christians alike buy the magazine , visit my websites , in Christians . Pop , Rock , Ska , R&amp;B , I 'm sure you 'll find something you 'll like " .  " This magazine is the culmination of what I 've been striving for for the past few years - to get Contemporary Christian Music into the mainstream . I have been perplexed that such multi-award winning and album selling bands like Jars Of Clay , Skillet , MercyMe , Casting Crowns , and Third Day - people who happen to be Christians and who may not necessarily write overtly Christian songs , are relatively unheard of in the UK . I have also wondered why Christian Artists did not want their music defined as ' Christian ' . I now know that being ' labelled ' as such , meant that their music simply was n't being listened to by Non-Christians and therefore did n't receive the same coverage as that of their mainstream counterparts . I 'm sure this must be frustrating , as every Musician wants their music to be heard by as wide an audience as possible . "  Dee is also calling for official Christian Music Chart in the UK . Amazon and iTunes have US equivalents , and there 's the Billboard Chart , which we use . If there was a Chart that was readily accessible , we will know of and see more of these Artists in the mainstream . "