PM Lee: Govt is planning beyond 2020
http://news.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne+News/Singapore/Story/A1Story20110405-271936.html

pm lee : govt is planning beyond 2020  asiaone tue , apr 05 , 2011  singapore - prime minister lee hsien loong said the issue of leadership renewal will be a major one in the forthcoming elections .  in his speech at the university cultural centre this evening at the kent ridge ministerial forum 2011 , he highlighted that the people 's action party dominance in singapore 's government came about partly by historical incidence .  but the political stability , good government , and social and economic success enjoyed by singapore today is also because pap pursued inclusive policies which represented all levels of society in singapore , and adapted the political system to avoid divisive politics .  this has allowed the current government to bring in and groom fourth generation leadership , as well as think beyond that to find good people to serve singapore .  here is a summary of all the points in his speech :  " leadership renewal : the 4th generation &amp; beyond "  1 . timely theme a . a vital question stake in the forthcoming elections  2 . but by the standards of other countries , it is a luxurya. 3rd generation leadership is in place , and can serve singa ? pore for another decade  b . we are planning not for the next ten years , but for the decade beyond that -- beyond 2020  c . very few other countries worry about the country 's leadership so far into the future  i . leaders either worried about immediate problems  ii . or preoccupied with staying in power for as long as they can  3 . why do we in singapore have the luxury , and the necessity , to worry now about this long term future ?  4 . we have been stable for last five decadesa . pap in power for over half a century  b . two leadership renewals  c . bringing in and grooming 4th generation leadership  d . and thinking beyond that to continue finding good people to serve singapore  5 . discuss two areasa . how did current system come about ?  many years to come ?  6 . pap dominance partly a historical incident  a . there were ferocious battles in the early years , both among political parties and inside the pap  b . within the pap , the communists and their sympathisers battled the non-communists over the future of singapore  c . eventually in 1961 the leftists split off to form barisan sosialis  d . pap and opposition were almost evenly matched after the split  e . in 1966 after independence , dr lee siew choh took barisan sosialis out of parliament onto the streets  f . it was a strategic mistake  g . in the 1968 elections , the pap made a clean sweep , and remained dominant ever since  7 . but political happenings in the 1960s not the only factor  a . pap 's actions since 1966 also critical  i . pursued inclusive policies  ii . represented all singaporeans  iii . adapted political system  iv . renewed its leadership  8 . first , the pap pursued policies which gave all citizens a , created jobs and raised incomes for all  b . invested in education to give every child a bright future  c . promoted home ownership for all , giving every household a substantial nest-egg to protect  d . created an egalitarian and meritocratic society , where all are comfortable to mingle in the same hawker centres and parks , and the poorest families can aspire to have their children do well and rise to the top  9 . second , the pap sought to represent the interests of a broad range of singaporeans  a . rich and poor , white and blue collar , all races and religions  b . co-opted all those committed to serving the country to form a broad movement  c . made the pap a national government , and not a partisan one , that drew support from all segments of society  10 . third , the pap adapted the political system to avoid divisive politics and work for singapore  a . introduced non-constituency mps ( ncmps ) in 1984  i . ensure minimum representation of opposition ( grcs ) in 1988  i . guaranteed representation of minorities in parliament  ii . promoted multi-racial parties and eschewed race-based politics  c . provided for nominated mps ( nmps ) in 1990  i . widened range of non-partisan views and enriched debated . created the elected president in 1991  i . to protect our reserves and the integrity of key appointments  ii . promote responsible politics -- prevent parties from winning votes simply by promising more goodies they have to show how they will fund their spending plans  b . each generation , including your own , has to produce people with ability , passion and commitment  i . who will contribute in the community  ii . become leaders in your own right  iii . help build the singapore you want to see in the future  c . do not wait to be invited to tea  d . we are looking for men and women of ability and integrity , regardless of family background  i . character and values are as important as ability  ii . country  iii . be able to connect with people  iv . have a contribution to make : looking after constituents at the grassroots , thinking out national policies , or mobilising a segment of the population  e . for the coming ge , we met hundreds of people for tea ; finally we are fielding 20+ new candidates  i . we decided not to field many who had outstanding qualifications  ii . but we are fielding quite a number who did not excel academically , who possess other important qualities  f . we are proud of our new candidates , individually and collectively  i . we will give them responsibilities to test their mettle and ability to solve problems for the people  ii . some will be playing key roles over the next 20+ years  g . we will continue searching for talent to reinforce the team , in the 2016 ge and beyond  h . within two terms , the new mps will have to choose from among themselves the new leadership team and pm  i . and start  21 . no system lasts forever ( mm himself acknowledged this in hard truths )  a . do not assume that the pap will remain dominant indefinitely  b . but if not one dominant party , what are alternative configurations ?  22 . two-party system ? how could this emerge ? a . first , society splits along race and religion , with parties being based on racial or religious lines  i . worst possible scenario for singapore  ii . we have done our best to prevent it from happening  b . second , society divides along class lines , with one political group representing the rich , and one representing the poor  i . one wanting lower taxes , the other calling for more redistribution  ii . working hard to prevent this  iii . by aligning the interests of all singaporeans , and enable one party to represent both the taxi driver and the ceo  c . third , split on policy , with two groups pushing different policies for singapore  i . unlikely -- pap a pragmatic 23 . most important reason why two-party system is not workable -- not enough talent to form two a teamsa . leadership is a complex and difficult task in any country  b . singapore more than others needs capable leadership to tackle difficult challenges and maximise chances for our small economy  c . with a mediocre government , other countries may muddle through , but singa ? pore will fail  d . most effective way of arriving at a two-party system is to split the pap into two  i . seriously considered this , but never did it  ii . how to produce two teams , each as good as the combined one ?  iii . how to find two finance ministers , or two defence ministers ?  ( 1 ) finance -- to make judgments on taxes , on expenditures , on the budget ( $50 bn a year ) as well as the reserves ( well over us$100 bn )  ( 2 ) defence -- not just to invest and spend the defence budget ( $12 bn a year ) wisely on assessing senior officers for key posts , on threat assessments and deterrent or defensive responses by the saf  iv . split into two teams , whichever team is in , it will be a weaker government , and we increase the chances of things going wrong  e . that is why i ( and the pms before me ) go out of my way to scour the land for talent to join the team  i . every election we find on average 3 new mps who make to minister  ii . but we have 14 ministries to fill , so on average ministers have to serve at least 4 terms  iii . sm goh recently expressed a personal view that perhaps in future ministers will only serve two terms  iv . but i think this is not possible , simply because of the numbers  24 . opposition parties pitch themselves as offering singa ? pore a fall-back should the pap faila . sounds plausible , but what does it depend on ? most critically talent  b . if the pap can not it easier to do ?  c . consider the choices facing a capable person wanting to serve the nation  i . join the opposition , and spend his life waiting ( and maybe hoping ) for the pap to fail one day  ii . join the pap , and help it make sound decisions , implement good policies , and avoid mistakes  d . which makes more sense for him , and for singa ? pore ?  25 . reiterate : we accept that some people will want to join the opposition and propound alternative policiesa . by all means join the opposition if the government is wrong or incompetent  b . but so long as the government is competent and doing a good job for singa ? poreans , hope you will make common cause with the pap team , to ensure that things stay right  26 . what we can and must do to assure singa ? pore 's future is to develop the strongest possible a team , with depth and resilience a . competent ministers  b . people with the job  d . so that as the situation changes , we can always find the right person in the team for the right job  e . that is how countries contesting in world cup soccer form and build up their national soccer teams  i . that is how singa ? pore can form one winning team to compete in the international league of nations  27 . i am now putting together the next a team for singa ? porea . the pap candidates in this round will form key members of this team  b . they need the voters ' full support -- not just to get elected , but to deliver results for you  c . this is the way to safeguard our future -- not to weaken the a team in the hope of buying insurance , but to give the a team the best chance of succeeding  c . to do that in a secure , stable , and prosperous singa ? pore , we must maintain the same high quality of government that we have enjoyed  d . this election  i . we have to press hard on leadership renewal now , so that by 2020 , we will have a younger team ready , able not only to maintain the present high standards of government , but to build on that and take singapore even higher  ii . ten years is not a long time to prepare a new leadership for singa ? pore  iii . ten years is also not a long time in your life -- by 2020 , you will be young adults , about to enter your prime years  e . we need singaporeans to help this leadership renewal to succeedi . then we will have good policies that bring prosperity and progress to singaporeii . then we can maintain the virtuous cycle for singapore to succeed and scale new heights for another generation