Philippines to curb worst forms of child labour
http://news.asiaone.com/News/Latest+News/Asia/Story/A1Story20110405-271938.html

philippines to curb worst forms of child labour  afp tue , apr 05 , 2011  manila - the philippines has vowed to crackdown on the worst forms of child labour under a new programme for its estimated 2.4 million underage workers , officials said tuesday .  the scheme aims to halve the number of children working in dangerous areas such as the sex trade , mining , as child soldiers or in factories making home-made firecrackers by 2016 , labour undersecretary lourdes trasmonte said .  " we hope to rescue children from the worst forms of child labour . " trasmonte told a news conference . " it 's a do-able plan . "  to gauge the scale of the problem , manila and the international labour organisation ( ilo ) will count all child workers in the philippines and sort them by profession .  backed by business groups , unions , non-governmental organisations and the ilo , the programme also calls for stricter enforcement of child labour laws and for alternative employment to be identified for child workers ' families more challenging in a country where more than 23 million people - or 26.5 per cent of the population - survive on around 46 pesos ( s$1.30 ) a day or less .  although it is illegal , thousands of filipino children work as domestic helpers , agricultural workers , street vendors , labourers as well as the more dangerous areas targeted by the government .  " the root cause is still poverty . the only asset the poor have is their labour . children are brought in to work because that is the only asset the family has , " she added .  rodel morcozo , a former child worker , recalled how he worked in an illegal gold mine at age 10 , carrying equipment and mixing toxic mercury with his bare hands .  he told reporters he had heard even more child labourers were now working in the mines , lured by the belief they could get rich and help their parents and siblings .  ilo country director lawrence jeff johnson cited some local progress in the global campaign , recalling that the years from four million in 2001.