NSP Tony Tan questions financial prudence and MOM's ergonomic ...
http://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2011/04/nsp-tony-tan-questions-financial-prudence-and-moms-ergonomic-designer-chairs/

" The ministry is buying 472 Herman Miller chairs ( photo ) , each priced at $575 , for general office use for its staff . The chairs , which are not delivered yet , will cost $271,400 in total . "  This is not the first time that government expenditure from the perspective of a taxpayer has started bordering on whether the expenditure is justifiable .  It reminds me of the expensive chairs for the Changi Airport Terminal 3 . Please see here .  My concern is that this the beginning of a designer chairs buying frenzy by all ministries .  Under normal circumstances , after a ministry has adopted a spending practice without question as to whether it is financially prudent , another ministry will come to view this as an acceptable practice .  A check indicates that there is a total headcount of 123,899 for 2011 in all the government ministries . Currently 472 chairs have been purchased for a headcount of 2,388 in MOM , this works out as roughly 20% of the total headcount . If we -- assuming a justification based on " ergonomic design , durability and value for money " -- the government would have to procure another 24,307 designer chairs at a cost of around $14m based on our 20% headcount estimate .  $14m may seem a small sum , except that it is also about 50% of the budget allocated for the elderly and the disable . To give you a further sense of proportion expenditure budget allocated for gambling safeguards is only $2.9m in 2011 Singapore Budget .  It is clear that when the government feels it is justifiable , the cost is not an issue , and the taxpayer 's money is spent . Similar instances of being cavalier with taxpayer money includes the YOG and the naming of Marina Bay .  Going forward however , Singaporeans should start querying such expenditure . The government , for its part , must understand that our silence is not our consent , when it comes to spending the taxpayer money . Specifically in this case , we would like MOF 's view on whether this spending practice of procuring designer is the sum of money ( $271,400 ) spent part of the FY 2010 budget or FY 2011 budget ? If it is part of the FY 2010 budget , then it must be asked whether the spending is meant to soak up the unused FY 2010 budget before the workyear ends on 31st Mar 2011 .  Subscribe to Blog via Email  Enter your email to subscribe and receive notifications of new posts by email .  Email Address  About Us  The Online Citizen is Singapore 's longest-running independent online media platform . Our aim is to examine the issues that matter , or should matter , to Singaporeans and to reflect the diversity of life , of ideas and opinions , that is Singapore .  We believe that Singapore 's future is best served by having an informed and involved citizenry that has access to a wide range of sources of news and views and an open and vibrant environment in which to share and to debate ideas and opinions .