Mirtle: The strange dysfunction of the San Jose Sharks
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/sports/hockey/globe-on-hockey/the-strange-dysfunction-of-the-san-jose-sharks/article22465261/

a quick glance at where the san jose sharks are in the standings does n't really offer a great picture of what 's going on with that team .  they 're sixth in the west , sure , with 51 points in 44 games , on pace for 95 points and the franchise 's 11th straight playoff berth .  pretty decent , right ?  in the context of what the sharks have been , not really . this is a team with seven 104-plus point seasons in those last 10 years , and in every one , they were considered a contender to varying degrees .  never with any postseason success , beyond two years in the conference finals .  and that inability to win has created a little dysfunction there .  here 's one story that has made the rounds . back in november , fourth-liner adam burish was a healthy scratch a few games after not playing particularly well . he was told it was management 's decision , as they wanted to see young players like barclay goodrow in fact , it 's been an ongoing battle in san jose with other players at various times . but in this case burish wanted out . and gm doug wilson said he would oblige by finding a better situation for him .  the next day , burish walked into the dressing room and his gear had been removed from the dressing room . teammate joe pavelski , an old friend from their college days , told burish he had been waived .  that 's not typical . usually a coach or someone in management informs the player . but what happened was a disagreement between wilson and coach todd mclellan . the coach wanted to play burish . the gm had other ideas and put him on waivers .  reminds you a bit of moneyball , actually , in terms of taking away a player a coach wanted to use .  that 's the basic outline of the story and just one small example of what 's going on in san jose . in addition to what happened with joe thornton , patrick marleau and the year that wilson and mclellan are n't getting along and that the coach may be fired at the end of the year .  that likely comes down to how they fare in the postseason , but it explains why you 're hearing mclellan 's name in the talks about who 'll coach next in toronto .  amidst all that , there 's still a good team in there somewhere . heading into thursday 's game against the leafs , the sharks are 13-6-1 in their last 20 games , despite so-so goaltending and despite not dominating teams the way they have in the past .  some of that is they 're giving roster spots to the likes of john scott and mike brown and do n't have the depth they 've enjoyed in the past . some of it is they 're trying to work in younger players , as part of a rebuild that 's not really a rebuild that wilson talked about in the off-season .  it 'll be fascinating to see if they get it together over the second half -- or if things @ @ @