More details needed on impact of Energy East pipeline, report says
http://www.thestar.com/news/world/2015/01/15/more-details-needed-on-impact-of-energy-east-pipeline-report-says.html

special testing is recommended to assess the safety of the pipeline in parts of northwestern ontario , according to a preliminary report .  the ontario energy board 's technical advisers need more information about the impact that transcanada 's energy east pipeline will have on drinking water sources , and special testing is recommended to assess the safety of the pipeline in parts of northwestern ontario , according to a preliminary report .  the report , published online wednesday , also says the economic benefits of the pipeline to the province are exaggerated and local benefits are expected to be small .  " the critical question is the incompleteness of the application , " said john mcgrath a consultant with the oeb on the energy east project .  transcanada is expected to release more information and file additional documents with the national energy board , he added .  " but right now , the two technical reports on pipeline safety and environmental impact did not have enough information to assess if the application meets two of the six principles the ( ontario for pipeline safety . "  tim duboyce , a transcanada spokesperson , said more documents will be filed in the next few weeks . " additional information will be provided from engineering reports that we are in the midst of preparing . "  the energy east pipeline is transcanada 's $12-billion dream in which it wants to convert its 40-year-old natural gas pipeline from saskatchewan to ontario to carry diluted bitumen . it wants to connect it with a new pipeline it plans to construct through quebec to export terminals and refineries in new brunswick .  the ontario portion consists of about 1,930 kilometres of gas pipeline that will be converted and another 104 kilometres of new construction .  oeb 's technical advisers say that four sections in northwestern ontario -- about 99 kilometres in total length -- are currently double-wrapped with polyethylene tape and hence susceptible to stress corrosion cracking . these sections are near the communities of ignace , martin , nipigon and jellicoe .  these four sections would not meet transcanada 's current coating specifications for a new pipeline , the oeb 's is that one of these sections be tested to see if the rest also need to go through the same test before the pipeline can carry oil , said mcgrath .  called hydrostatic testing , it would involve sending pressurized water through the pipeline and looking for any weak spots .  duboyce said transcanada is carrying out integrity checks on the entire length of the existing pipeline .  among other things , the oeb report says that energy east will add " minimal increase in ontario 's total emissions . "  the pipeline would likely increase emissions from " well-to-tank " in the rest of canada but the impact is likely to be relatively modest , it said .  keith stewart , the climate and energy campaigner for greenpeace , pointed out that the report assumes that emissions will happen anyway , even if the project does n't get the go-ahead .  the report admits that greater oil transport through this pipeline will increase emissions related to pipeline operation , but that it may reduce the amount of oil transported by rail , thus reducing that rail could replace energy east and i just do n't think that is possible , " said stewart .  the national energy board 's figures indicate that about 182,000 barrels of oil was transported for export by rail in the last quarter of 2014 . energy east , on the other hand , plans to move 1.1 million barrels of oil every day , he pointed out .