7 parts of Scarborough's waterfront most Torontonians never see
http://www.insidetoronto.com/news-story/5445144-7-parts-of-scarborough-s-waterfront-most-torontonians-never-see/

port union trail  scarborough is undervalued real estate , but one thing it has in abundance is public land along lake ontario .  there are parks and lots of them -- some not displaying signs , but public land nonetheless -- both above the famous scarborough bluffs and below .  facilities at these places are few . on many days of the year , residents walking their dogs are the most common visitors . but though no one 's exactly invited you there , you have the right to go .  and you should go . as a toronto taxpayer you 've paid for these parks and trails , and you 're about to pay more . the toronto and region conservation authority has built a spectacular set of waterfront shoreworks along most of the scarborough waterfront . part of these shoreworks form an official waterfront park and trail , while the rest is unofficial , a waterfront trail you 're not supposed to use , though many do .  the official park is going to be extended -- probably -- with walk , jog or cycle below the bluffs all the way from the foot of brimley road to pickering .  does your neighbourhood offer something like that ? you can learn more about the scarborough waterfront project on tuesday , feb. 24 , during an open house at qssis banquet halls at kingston and markham roads , with a presentation and discussion by the trca at 7 p.m .  here are seven public places along the scarborough waterfront you should know about :  1 . rosetta mcclain gardens -- raptors are counted here as they fly south each fall ( 11,128 were spotted by volunteers in 2014 ) . rose gardens , a rock fountain and great views above the bluffs are wedding-picture-worthy backdrops in this 23-acre space you might easily miss off kingston road at glen everest road .  2 . gates gully -- doris mccarthy , the landscape artist , lived overlooking this path , also called the bellamy ravine , along a trickling brook to the water . visitors can leave their cars on bellehaven crescent south of kingston and bellamy road south , . once below , where a sculpture by marlene hilton moore , called passage , stands , they can walk west along the shoreworks up to the western edge of bluffers park , or east , without much difficulty , to below the guild inn . none of this is an official park . the trca says it is n't safe , and so its waterfront project is needed .  3 . guild inn -- the old inn on guildwood parkway has been boarded up since 2001 . it 's interesting now , surrounded by fragments of vanished toronto buildings and a greek theatre . soon , if the city of toronto 's plans are realized , it will be a genuine all-weather attraction again , with the renovated inn reopened as a restaurant and banquet hall , and the surrounding guild park fitted with ' cultural precinct ' improvements which will also bring artists to what former owners rosa and spencer clark organized as an art colony . the latest trca waterfront project will also give visitors a safe path down to the water .  4 . bluffers is a crime . that aside , bluffers park has more going for it than its public beach and marina . this large expanse reached down a steep hill at the foot of brimley has pleasant paths and fishing spots . upper portions of the park , including one at the south end of chine drive west of brimley , are watched over by residents .  5 . port union waterfront park -- for decades , stones shoring up railway tracks were all port union had . at the south end of port union road , however , the trca and city have opened a waterfront park that goes on for kilometres either east to the rouge park 's rouge marsh -- we assume you 've heard of the rouge park -- and into pickering , or west to east point park , where hikers can turn up the highland creek trail .  6 . waterfront cycling trail -- also known as the other waterfront trail . yes , you can cycle across scarborough . just be prepared to follow the map charting the route along a zig-zag of on kingston itself : ( **59;629;toolong ) from just west of highland creek , though , the cycling route runs through the waterfront park trail into pickering .  7 . unofficial nude beaches -- the locals do n't appreciate this , but certain spots on the scarborough waterfront have long been thought of by some as " clothing optional . " the federation of canadian naturists cites warden beach , found down a path to a pumping station between warden avenue and the eastern edge of the toronto hunt club golf course . on its website , the group also recommends another beach location near the south end of beechgrove drive : " keep walking west . around the first point it is considered safe to remove your clothes , but almost everyone waits until they are well west of the point , " it says .