Family matters: Global News anchor Carolyn MacKenzie on juggling ...
http://www.insidetoronto.com/news-story/5445141-family-matters-global-news-anchor-carolyn-mackenzie-on-juggling-career-home-and-planting-roots-for/

the etobicoke native discovered her gift at an early age through creative writing and the ability to connect with people . with encouragement from her family , mackenzie eventually enrolled at carleton university for journalism , while also pursuing acting on the side .  after graduation , mackenzie combined both passions by landing a big break as the host of the roger cable show , toronto living . she 's gone on to work as a videographer for atv/ctv news in cape breton and as a reporter for barrie 's the new vr . now , mackenzie can be heard and seen anchoring global toronto 's 11 o'clock news program .  " i like people finishing their day with me , " mackenzie said while sitting on the couch in her rustic etobicoke home . " it 's when everyone 's armour has been taken off and their guard is down . they are either crawling in bed or sitting on the couch . they are winding down and if they choose to turn my show on , it 's a huge compliment . they which means so much . all the chaos of the day is on the side table and they are listening to the news and taking it all in . "  mackenzie admits breaking into the competitive world of news was a long , gradual and grueling climb . it required perseverance , sacrifice and paying the proper dues by starting at the bottom .  " it took me some months to realize i had to leave home and go far away to start , " mackenzie explained . " that 's when i moved to the east coast and for a year i was a videographer . every other day i was at the mouth of a coal pit covering a story like striking miners . it was at a time when the federal government was getting out of the two main industries in sydney , ns , which were the coal industry and the steel manufacturing industry . that 's where i spent most of my time in cape breton .  " when interns comes in now , i always say if you 're going to get the bat , more power to you , but you 'll miss out on what being in the trenches is all about and what it teaches you and the character building it provides , " mackenzie continued . " i will never take anything for granted ever again because of those early years . "  mackenzie obviously loves her job . she won the coveted edward r. murrow award for " best investigative journalism " for a two-part story covering transit inaccessibility . however , there 's more to her than just the daily grind . mackenzie and her husband chris are the parents of kate , six-and-a-half , and matt , three-and-a-half . as any working mother will tell you , juggling children , a career , a husband and having a life can be a challenge .  " i did n't know how i was going to adjust to working the night shift and being a mom , because you ca n't tell the kids to sleep in , " mackenzie said . " even this year , i 've had to adjust again because my daughter of her monday to friday , so i want to be up in the morning when she wakes up . i feed her breakfast and walk her to school . heading into september , i was like , ' oh my gosh , how am i going to go to bed at 1 a.m. and get up at 7 ? ' well , i 'm doing it . you adjust . you do it . there are days when you are a little more irritable than others , but you get by . you manage . i look at this family and what we do .  " we assess quarterly , " she continued . " ' how did we do these last three months ? what 's working ? what 's not ? let 's make adjustments . ' it 's tough . it can be challenging . i have an awesome husband . he 's a toronto firefighter . he works 24-hour shifts , but that gives him a lot of time at home . he covers for me when i 'm not here . my mom is great babysitters that fill in when we are both working . with all that , we get by . "  mackenzie grew up in etobicoke , and re-planting roots there has made life easier for her and the family . many of her friends have come back to do the same . whether it 's exploring the local trails with her kids , taking them for brunch at bloor street 's cr ? me de la cr ? me caf ? , indulging in maltese pastries at joe 's pastizzi or revisiting old haunts , mackenzie revels in etobicoke 's sense of community and the fond memories it 's provided .  " i have such an attachment to etobicoke , " said mackenzie , who originally moved there when she was nine years old . " all the different communities within etobicoke have their own flair , their own personality . i 've lived here on and off over 30 years and it 's neat to see how a neighborhood has evolved . islington village is where i grew up . i 'm in it . i find there inn is on dundas , east of islington , " mackenzie added . " as a kid , i would spend my allowance at the inn . my daughter now loves the inn . it 's amazing how some things inherently happen . like i said , especially with islington village , there 's a real sense of heritage . the murals are beautiful . that brings the history to the forefront . "  the mackenzie household tells its own vivid tale , too . the open concept layout is welcoming and inviting . the rooms all flow with their d ? cor . original hardwood floor bestows character on the house . a long harvest-style table with chairs and a bench fills the dining room . one feature mackenzie points out is the mantel piece around the fireplace . she redesigned the classic high mantel with contemporary shaker squares . surveying the place , this is a home that oozes functionality , practicality and even better , family .  " we bought this home for the main floor , " mackenzie offered . " i said , ' together . even when i 'm alone , i feel very at peace and very calm . i love that the main floor has no walls . i can see my husband cooking in the kitchen . i can see the kids colouring at the table . i get to see everything going on . i can break up fights or we can laugh with each other . a couple of weeks ago , my husband and son were playing mini-hockey over there . my daughter was painting a pumpkin left over from halloween . i was cooking . i was thinking , ' this is what this main floor is supposed to do . '  " i also love photographs , " mackenzie concluded . " downstairs there 's a gallery wall in the basement . all i have up is photographs that we 've taken . whether it 's for company coming over and they see our lives plastered on the walls or when i 'm home , i like looking around . i like seeing our story . "