Badgers' season done at end of 401
http://www.brockpress.com/2015/02/badgers-season-done-end-401/

badgers ' season done at end of 401  brock badgers lose hard fought series to no. 1 windsor lancers in deciding game in overtime  after just sneaking into the playoffs on the final day of the regular season , the badgers knew they were in a tough spot as the no. 8 seed , taking on the no. 1 seed and reigning oua champions , windsor lancers . in the oua west first round of the playoffs , it 's a best of three series , with the first team winning two games and moving on to round two , while the other teams season is over . with this series spanning a geographical distance of over 350km , the two teams elected to have game one in st. catharines on feb. 11 , while game two and three ( if necessary ) were scheduled in windsor on feb. 14 and 15 .  a few of the storylines going into this series were the badgers ' lack of consistent goaltending throughout the season , and how they were going to stop the best player cis in scoring this year with 50 points in 27 games .  in game one , adrian volpe got the start in net for the badgers , and it proved to be a genius move by head coach murray nystrom . the lancers dominated the play throughout the game , but they could n't find a way to solve volpe . volpe made 40 saves in the badgers ' statement win 2-1 over the lancers . this was the badger first win against windsor since 2011 ( had lost last seven previous games ) . andrew radjenovic , and kaine geldart scored for brock , while spencer pommels had an assist for windsor on their lone goal .  in game two , the badgers took a 2-1 lead into the third period , but that 's when all broke loose . the badgers had 12 minor penalties to the lancers ' two , including kaine geldart 's ejection from the game . the lancers would convert on two power plays and took the game by a final score of 4-2 forcing a third and deciding game on sunday feb. , making 47 saves , but that still was n't enough for the victory .  in the do or die game three , the badgers got off to a hot start when sammy banga tucked one past lancers goaltender parker van buskirk on a gorgeous pass from radjenovic , quieting the hostile windsor crowd . a few minutes later it was dan tanel who led the badgers in defensemen scoring this year , putting the badgers up 2-0 after the first period .  in the second period , very similar to the night before , the badgers found themselves in deep penalty troubles , which led to a julian luciani slap shot goal on the power play to cut the badgers lead to 2-1 after two periods .  the third period was an absolute wild one . five minutes into it , chad sheply , another lancer defenseman , would score on the short side against volpe to tie the game at two . 34 seconds later the badgers would regain the lead when spencer turcotte broke out of a 17-game goalless streak to put brock back up the third period , the lancers had their net knocked off its moorings and the play continued up the ice luciani found the back of the net for the second time in the game , tying it up at three .  sixty minutes was not enough to decide this series , so the two teams went off to sudden death overtime to determine the victor . just past the halfway mark of the first overtime , from an almost impossible angle in the corner , kyle hope , who had not scored in his last 19 games , threw one at the net and it trickled past volpe ending the series and the badgers ' season .  the badgers were 0-16 in the regular season when their opponent scored the first goal , and they were 10-1 when they scored it . however , in this series against windsor , the team that scored the first goal lost every game .  after coming so close to pulling off one of the biggest upset across the oua this season , in an interview with gobadgers.ca , badgers coach nystrom season playing the best hockey of any stretch we 've had all year . we had nine first year players on our roster in most games and they have gained some really valuable experience.the toughest part of the result is knowing many players have played their final university games . "  goaltending adrian volpe , jordan gignac , kaine and anthony geldart , and captain mike mcgurk have all played their final game as brock badgers .  the badgers season can be defined with one word -- inconsistency . they started out losing their first three games ; they then had a stretch where they picked up 13 of a possible 18 points , before only winning two games in 2015 . they then played some of their best hockey against the number seven-ranked windsor lancers in the first round of the playoffs , but they just simply ran out of gas .