Alberta butterfly experts seek to uncover number of existing species ...
http://www.metronews.ca/news/calgary/2015/05/14/alberta-butterfly-experts-seek-to-uncover-number-of-existing-species-in-province.html

Alberta butterfly experts seek to uncover number of existing species in province  Share on Facebook  A  A  Report an Error  Share via Email  Print  By:Metro Published on  If you 're lacking a to-do list this long weekend , why not butterfly watch ?  John Acorn of the Alberta Lepidopterists ' Guild said he is encouraging Albertans everywhere to snap pictures of butterflies they come across as part of an investigation into the number of existing butterfly species in the province .  " We 're looking for all 173 species Alberta because we do n't know if they 're all still here , " Acorn said . " These photos could confirm the right species . "  Only just launching what 's been dubbed the Butterfly Roundup , Acorn said already 31 species have been collected . Having established 173 as the number of existing species back in the 1800s , Acorn said 2015 could reveal new species or the disappearance of others .  " Who knows what we might find -- maybe some species have .  Between the general public 's interest in the initiative and 31 species already identified , Acorn said the Butterfly Roundup is off to a good start .  " The records we 've already submitted paint a pretty optimistic picture of what butterfly life looks like in Alberta , " Acorn said . " It 's a great reminder for people that butterflies have n't disappeared . "  Acorn said while some people shy away from entomology ( let 's face it , insects can get a little creepy ) , photographing butterflies is one of those activities any one can get involved in .  " Butterflies are perfect ambassadors for the insect world -- they 're honorary flowers , " he said .  Albertans are encouraged to take pictures of butterflies and upload them to e-butterfly.org . Up-to-date counts and confirmation of species in Alberta can also be found on e-butterfly.