Crowdfunding page for Charleston shooting suspect's sister removed
http://globalnews.ca/news/2088208/charleston-shooting-suspects-sister-crowdfunding-for-cancelled-wedding/

A campaign in her name sought donations to reschedule her special day , seeking $5,000 to " create new memories and a new start with our family . "  The campaign started on June 27 but was pulled down Thursday following media coverage of the fundraising effort .  In an email to Global News , GoFundMe.com said the page was removed by the campaign organizer .  The couple chose to cancel the wedding to both mourn the nine victims her brother is accused of killing , in what federal authorities are investigating as a possible hate crime , and to protect their family .  " June 21st was suppose to be the happiest day of our lives . It is the day every girl dreams of , it was the day we dreamed of , " Roof wrote on a GoFundMe page posted June 27 . " Our wedding day was suppose to be the most important and special day of our lives . It was suppose to start our lives together with our new family . Our day was the exact opposite , and shame , tainted by the actions of one man .  " We know money can not replace the wedding we lost and our perfect day , however it will help us to create new memories and a new start with our new family , " she wrote .  According to the Washington Post , Roof contacted police after seeing her brother on surveillance footage publicized after the shooting .  The funds raised , just more than US $1,500 so before being removed , were to have gone toward covering the cost of cancelling the wedding and to send the couple on their " dream honeymoon . " The campaign also promised to donate 10 per cent of the money they raise to the Emanuel A.M.E church .  " Our lives have been forever changed and touched by all the love and support you have shown us through this difficult time , " the GoFundMe post read .  Dylann Roof , 21 , is facing nine counts of murder after being arrested in North Carolina the morning after the mass shooting , about 400 kilometres was met with criticism and support .  " I 'm sorry but it is insane to me that you have the nerve to ask people to donate for a honey moon ! Look I 'm sorry your brother screwed up your wedding plans , however I 'm way more concerned about the people who lost there ( sic ) loved ones , " a commenter by the name of Melissa Williams-Stewart wrote . " They are trying to afford to bury the people they loved due to the stupidity of your brother ... If I 'm going to donate it will be to the families that lost there ( sic ) loved ones . "  " What did you do ? delete the comments ? you do nt deserve any sympathy for your poor missed wedding . your racist family killed innocent people ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! if i saw you or your parents id spit in your faces ! ! ! ! ! , " read a post by Scott Howell .  But there have been 31 people who have donated the largest contribution being $200 .  " I am so glad to have you as a life long friend . You are such an amazing woman &amp; deserve all the best things in life . You 're one of the strongest people I know ! Michael and the kids are so lucky to have you ! Love yall , " contributor Nicole Chmielowski wrote on the page .  Another contributor wrote he was donating because of the recent Supreme Court ruling legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States .  " Me and my partner finally have the opportunity to legally get married after dating for 5 years . I can not imagine how upsetting this would be . Please accept my small donation as a token of my support , " wrote Corey Parks , who donated $10.