Derek Grant looks to be Calgary Flames catch of the day
http://www.calgarysun.com/2015/07/02/derek-grant-looks-to-be-calgary-flames-catch-of-the-day

grant , who signed a free-agent contract with the calgary flames , is showing off an eight-and-a-half-foot , 400-lb. sturgeon caught in the fraser river near chilliwack , b.c.  " you 'll reel them right near the boat , but as soon as the see the light of day , they get scared and take off , " grant said . " they 'll run 200 feet of line and you 've got to just wait it out because there 's nothing you can do . all that work you just did is for nothing . "  his banner photo is also eye-catching -- a shot of lake louise . it 's one way to reflect the change of becoming part of the flames from the ottawa senators .  " i actually did n't think of that , that it 's so close to calgary , " grant said with a laugh from his home in langley , b.c. " we drove through there a couple of times last year . it 's a beautiful place . "  grant , 25 , a his resume , but after four years with the sens , is looking forward to a new opportunity with the flames , even if they 're somewhat deep in young prospects vying for nhl time .  " it 's a young team , a team that 's building , and with a fresh start for myself , it 's a good fit , " said grant , who collected 21 goals and 38 points for the ahl 's binghamton senators last season . " there 's a lot of young guys , but it puts me in a spot to be in the mix . "  derek grant looks to be calgary flames catch of the day  grant , who signed a free-agent contract with the calgary flames , is showing off an eight-and-a-half-foot , 400-lb. sturgeon caught in the fraser river near chilliwack , b.c.  " you 'll reel them right near the boat , but as soon as the see the light of day , they get scared and take off , " grant said . " they 'll run 200 feet of line and 's nothing you can do . all that work you just did is for nothing . "  his banner photo is also eye-catching -- a shot of lake louise . it 's one way to reflect the change of becoming part of the flames from the ottawa senators .  " i actually did n't think of that , that it 's so close to calgary , " grant said with a laugh from his home in langley , b.c. " we drove through there a couple of times last year . it 's a beautiful place . "