SGI CANADA becoming Western Canada's insurer of choice
http://www.newswire.ca/news-releases/sgi-canada-becoming-western-canadas-insurer-of-choice-518008711.html

REGINA , July 2 , 2015 /CNW/ - SGI CANADA is strengthening its presence in the Western Canadian insurance market as the company begins to sell commercial insurance products to customers in British Columbia .  " We 're always paying attention to market position , and B.C. is a province with strong growth potential . This market fits well with SGI CANADA 's particular expertise in Western Canada 's construction , transportation and oil and gas industries , " said Andrew Cartmell , President and CEO of SGI CANADA , based in Regina , Saskatchewan . " Combine that with strong population growth and a stable economy , and it just makes good business sense to be doing business in B.C. "  SGI CANADA has enjoyed 70 years of industry success . Last year the company maintained among the largest market shares of all competitive insurers headquartered in Western Canada , writing $540 million in premium . SGI CANADA has commercial products designed to suit the insurance needs of B.C. small business owners and retail operators , as well as contractors and construction firms , .  " Our experience with resource-based industries runs deep , which means we have the capacity to develop innovative products with distinctive coverage to meet the specific needs of B.C. customers , " Cartmell said . " And delivering what customers want -- where and when they want it -- is at the core of what SGI CANADA stands for . "  This strategy , combined with strong broker partnerships , is what has helped SGI CANADA achieve success in Ontario , Manitoba , Saskatchewan and Alberta selling insurance products through a network of 500 brokers . Since entering Alberta in 2006 , SGI CANADA has grown to more than $100 million in written premium in that province .  " We 've seen the success that strong broker partnerships bring , ensuring customers get the right insurance to protect their interests , " Cartmell said . " We 're looking forward to the opportunities this move will bring to customers , to brokers , and to us .  About SGI CANADA  SGI offers its competitive property and casualty insurance products through SGI CANADA in Saskatchewan , Company in Ontario . It sells its products exclusively through independent insurance brokers in all jurisdictions . Visit SGI CANADA at www.sgicanada.ca.