BAPE cites 'uncertainties' and 'low acceptability' in report on future of ...
http://montrealgazette.com/news/bape-cites-uncertainties-and-low-acceptability-in-report-on-future-of-uranium-mining-in-quebec

bape cites ' uncertainties ' and ' low acceptability ' in report on future of uranium mining in quebec  the bureau d'audiences publiques sur l'environnement ( bape ) concluded that would be inappropriate to give the green light to uranium mining in quebec right now . their findings were presented to the provincial government on friday afternoon .  according to the bape , there are too many uncertainties and unanswered questions regarding the risks posed by uranium mining to human health and the environment .  " these uncertainties are compounded by the radioactivity of uranium residues , which may remain problematic for thousands of years , " the agency wrote in its 600-page report , dated may 2015 and entitled " the challenges of the uranium industry in quebec . "  the report noted that social acceptability is also an issue for uranium mining .  " because of the uncertainty and sometimes significant gaps and limitations in scientific and technological knowledge , we are very far from reaching a social and political consensus and there is very low acceptability in quebec . be located , " the rejection of the uranium industry is almost unanimous . "  the city of sept- ? les , which is near a uranium mining project , has been the scene of many protests in recent years . in 2009 , 20 doctors resigned from a sept- ? les hospital to protest the construction of a uranium mine on the north shore .  the bape notes that the institut national de sant ? publique du qu ? bec states that the presence of a uranium mine could create additional exposure to radiation for people living nearby .  quebec 's environment minister asked the bape to address the mining industry in march 2014 . uranium mines are considered different from other mines because they emit radiation .  the bape 's report , which is based on dozens of public meetings and 254 submitted briefs , indicated that before the government decides to open the door for uranium mining in the province , it should satisfy three conditions : ensure social acceptance , fill gaps in scientific knowledge and provide a solid legal framework .  met for several years , realistically . "  no uranium mine has been exploited in quebec yet , and reserves are small . quebec 's uranium deposits are mainly located near james bay and on the north shore .  no exploration has taken place since 2013 , when the quebec government decided that it would not authorize any until the bape had assessed the impacts of the industry .  canada is the second-largest uranium producer in the world -- behind kazakhstan -- with most of the uranium reserves located in saskatchewan .  the quebec government said friday that an interdepartmental committee would be set up to analyze the findings .  " we see that the exploration and exploitation of uranium causes concern and we are committed to making informed decisions that take into account the impact that such activities may have on the environment , and on the economic and social environment of local and indigenous communities , " said quebec 's environment minister david heurtel in a statement .  " in quebec , the development of our resources must be done responsibly -- never the quality of our communities . "  the association mini ? re du qu ? bec ( amq ) said heurtel 's decision to analyze the report before making a decision about the future of the mining industry was wise . everything is not black and white , said jos ? e m ? thot , president and director general of the association .  " saskatchewan 's experience shows that it is possible to properly operate a uranium mine and adhere to the best practices recognized worldwide , while reaping some very important benefits for quebec 's socio-economic development and respecting people and the environment , " m ? thot wrote in a statement .  the cree nation and the coalition pour que le qu ? bec ait meilleure mine , agreed with the report 's conclusion that there are too many risks and uncertainties relating to the exploitation of uranium mines . the coalition also agreed with the report 's conclusion that the current methods and technologies to safely control radioactive uranium residues need improvement .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .