Reputed member of Gambino crime family freed on bond amid ...
http://www.news1130.com/2015/07/17/reputed-member-of-gambino-crime-family-freed-on-bond-amid-cleveland-scrap-yard-charges/

carmine agnello is escorted into court friday , july 17 , 2015 , in cleveland . agnello , 55 , a reputed member of the gambino crime family and former son-in-law of john gotti was freed on a personal bond friday after his arrest earlier this week on charges related to an alleged $3 million scam involving stolen cars and scrap metal . ( ida lieszkovszky/the plain dealer via ap ) mandatory credit ; no sales  cleveland -- a reputed member of the gambino crime family and former son-in-law of john gotti was freed on a personal bond friday after his arrest earlier this week on charges related to an alleged $3 million scam involving stolen cars and scrap metal .  agnello was arrested wednesday by cleveland police after an 18-month investigation that authorities said uncovered how he put sand into cars , many of them stolen , to add weight and to increase their scrap value before crushing the vehicles and selling them to a metals processing company . a cleveland police official said he expects that an investigation will show that fraud exceeded in doping race horses , but would not provide any details .  his attorneys on friday protested the fact that prosecutors had set a bond hearing for agnello when no formal charges had been filed . attorney ian friedman called the hearing " unprecedented " and his detention unlawful .  " he moved to cleveland to get away from what ( the prosecutor ) attached to him in new york , " friedman said in court .  an assistant cuyahoga county prosecutor said an arrest warrant signed by another judge details the allegations and that the case would be presented to a grand jury to charge agnello in an indictment . those charges , the prosecutor said , include theft and conspiracy .  two guns and $60,000 in cash were seized during searches of agnello 's upscale home and his southeast cleveland three scrap yards , the prosecutor said . as a convicted felon , agnello is not allowed to possess firearms . friedman said the weapons were a shotgun and .22-calibre rifle .  a deputy cleveland police chief said agnello would pay people small amounts to him . the investigation began after police became puzzled about why more stolen cars were n't being recovered .  the prosecutor asked for a $1 million bond . agnello 's attorneys said their client is not a flight risk , has three small children , a mother who lives with him and a brother who is hospitalized at the cleveland clinic . cuyahoga county common pleas judge dick ambrose set a $100,000 personal bond , ordered agnello to wear a gps monitoring device and to stay away from his scrap yards .  agnello moved to cleveland after his release from a federal prison in youngstown in 2008 . he married the daughter of a suspected armenian-american terrorist with whom he served prison time . agnello was married 17 years to victoria gotti , the daughter of the late gambino crime boss . they divorced in 2002 . victoria gotti starred in a short-lived reality show with her and agnello 's three sons called " growing up gotti . "  agnello received nine years in prison and was ordered to pay $11 million in restitution in 2001 after defraud the internal revenue service . authorities said agnello was involved in a scheme to take control of scrap yards in queens , new york .  this is not the first time agnello has been arrested in northeast ohio . he was charged with aggravated menacing in october 2010 after running a stop sign and almost causing an accident at a park near his home in bentleyville . a police report said that when a cleveland metroparks ranger approached his pick-up truck , agnello became " irate " and questioned why ranger fayza panno , who agnello believed to be italian , would give him a ticket .  agnello refused to give panno information that she asked for . the report said as panno walked back to her car , agnello got out of his truck and told the ranger , " you should be killed . " panno called for assistance and agnello was arrested . he pleaded no contest to a disorderly conduct charge and received a suspended 30-day jail sentence .  almost done !  please confirm the information below before signing up .  **30;84;toolong * * **29;116;toolong * by clicking " create account " , i confirm that i have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that i agree to be bound by them .  sign in to complete account merge  almost done !  please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #registrationform * * **32;147;toolong * * **31;181;toolong * * **35;214;toolong * * **34;251;toolong * * **31;287;toolong * * **38;320;toolong * by clicking " create account " , i confirm that i have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that i agree to be bound by them .