The importance of getting an education in business
http://www.thebarrieexaminer.com/2015/07/17/the-importance-of-getting-an-education-in-business

the importance of getting an education in business  not every business person has an education . in fact , not every business person needs an education . if you have been able to acquire knowledge through years of experience , getting an education is less important than a complete novice just starting out in business . there are some examples of entrepreneurs who have honed their business skills through trial and error , or have got their education via the " school of hard knocks " . for the rest of us , getting an education can be a game changer .  in addition to providing you with knowledge pertaining to business , an education will also help you to discover , develop and hone some very important skills that will prove to be invaluable in the world of business .  regardless of the type of business or the industry or you aspire to belong to , strengthening your communication skills will always come in handy . an education will go a long way toward developing additional communication skills . written assignments and verbal so you 'll definitely benefit in that regard .  sales skills are in many ways a ' subset ' of communication skills . furthering your education will help to increase your capacity to not only communicate in written and verbal form , but it will also provide you with a much better ability to listen . for anyone who has had success in sales , you know that listening is the number one skill needed to succeed .  not merely confined to marketing , research is key to any business . business programs will contain classes in research , both basic and advanced in nature . the ability to conduct thorough and accurate research could be the key to your future success in business .  financial management is at the core of running a prosperous business . courses in financial planning , economics and mathematics are woven into the very fabric of a business education and could greatly assist you in properly managing funds , sales , mark-ups , etc .  education can open up doors in so many ways . you may be completely set in let 's say you are absolutely certain that a career in sales is right for you . during the course of your education , you may just find other aspects of business to be equally ( if not more ) intriguing and find yourself along a different path of business involving marketing , human resources or even accounting .  it 's not just about what you learn in the classroom that counts , either . we all know that ' who you know ' is just as important as ' what you know ' . the networking and colleagues you meet through your academic endeavours can be priceless as you move through your professional life journey . i have found myself connecting with past colleagues on numerous projects and ventures over the years .  even a seasoned business professional or successful entrepreneur could benefit from additional courses , training or upgrading when it comes to their personal base of knowledge . i truly believe that the best business people are smart business people . one of the best ways to achieve this is through a well-rounded education .  best decision i have ever made in terms of my professional life . regardless if you are a seasoned vet or a business newbie , i highly recommend you consider acquiring some additional knowledge in an effort to further yourself and your career .  after all , we should never stop learning .  chris mcbrien is a college professor and podcaster . he is available for public speaking appearances and may be reached at www.chrisjmcbrien.com.