Revisiting the Past Lives of St. Lawrence Market
http://torontoist.com/2015/09/revisiting-the-past-lives-of-st-lawrence-market/

Revisiting the Past Lives of St. Lawrence Market  In the November 5 , 1803 edition of the Upper Canada Gazette , a notice from Lieutenant-Governor Peter Hunter addressed an irritant for the early inhabitants of York : " no place or day having been set apart or appointed for exposing publicly for Sale , Cattle , Sheep , Poultry , and other Provisions , Goods and Merchandise , brought by Merchants , Farmers , and others , for the necessary supply of the said Town of York . "  The solution : starting that day , a public open market PDF would operate every Saturday at the northwest corner of present-day Front and Jarvis . Nearly 30 years later , in 1831 , the first permanent brick building opened on the site , a structure which ringed an open courtyard . Elements of that incarnation of north St. Lawrence Market , along with its successors , have been uncovered through archaeological work carried out as part of the preparations for the fifth market building to stand on the site .  Model of 1831 St. by Ryerson students for the " Meeting Places : Toronto 's City Halls " exhibit at the Market Gallery in 1985 .  Beyond its role as a trading centre , the north end of the 1831 marketplace housed Toronto 's first city council chambers after the city 's incorporation in 1834 . But the complex had its problems , especially for butchers : the height of the gallery exposed their meat to the sun ; damp and poorly ventilated cellars also provided lousy storage . Space was so tight that farmers were turned away , forcing them to sell to grocers , causing a loss of civic revenue . Part of the balcony collapsed in July 1834 during a tax riot . The solution was the construction of a new south market building , which politicians and produce vendors moved into in 1845 .  The original north market complex was destroyed during the Great Fire of 1849 , and was replaced within two years in a project that also created St. Lawrence Hall . That structure met its end in 1904 , replaced by one designed to match recent canopy above Front Street linked the two markets , as the north side settled into its role as a Saturday-only farmers market . Construction was a bureaucratic nightmare , from cost overruns to the firing of the architects ; as a Star editorial put it , " the city 's interests were being looked after by too many men , so that among them all nobody gave the work the determined attention it deserved . "  Bricks from the 1904 incarnation of the market .  When the next version of the north market was completed in 1968 , some tenants were happy to see the demise of the poorly aging 1904 building . " Gone was the dirt and dust , " the Telegram observed . " Gone was the roof which sometimes leaked . The cold and the gloom , the shabby walls and uneven floors had departed . Instead there is brightness under-floor heating and colour everywhere . The farmers have never had it so good . " Opening reviews were mixed , with architectural critics giving the space thumbs down for being too mundane .  1968 building as it awaits its end . Its placement atop a thin concrete pad made finding its earlier incarnations easier for archaeologists . Based on the three trenches made in the floor , you do n't have to dig deep to find the foundation piers from the 1831 complex . " Nobody had popped the lid to have a look at the what the preservation was like under the site , " archaeologist Dr. Peter Popkin noted during a media tour of the site on Wednesday .  Part of the 1851 sewer system .  Popkin and Golder Associates Ltd. conducted the current stage of the archaeological assessment over the past few weeks , and found elements of all pre-1968 structures within the trenches . Besides the original foundation piers , other uncovered features include the 1851 sewer system , and bricks , concrete foundations , and a box drain from 1904 . Evidence points toward the existence of the cellars which irritated butchers during the 1830s . While items like animal bones and ceramics have been found , their volume is less than would be discovered at a evidence of " robber trenches " where fill was dumped during each construction project , especially from 1904 .  Showing the different surfaces over time -- the darker area is believed to be the outdoor courtyard surface of the 1831 market .  One interesting find was the discolouration of levels of dirt , especially in the second trench . The darker stained soil was the original surface of the 1831 interior courtyard . While paving stones were contemplated , according to Popkin , visitors reported it was covered with gravel . The evidence points to a sandy material with plenty of pebbles sitting atop a clay capping .  At the media tour , Deputy Mayor Pam McConnell ( Ward 28 , Toronto Centre-Rosedale ) referred to the discoveries not as " surprises , " but as " prizes " which will help tell the story of the city from their respective eras . Up to 18 months of historical assessment work was built into the timeline for the new market structure , leaving plenty of time for further investigation and a mitigation study . It is expected that new building . It shall be seen how the discoveries affect plans for a 250-space underground parking lot .  City of Toronto coat of arms , installed 1968 .  As it awaits the wrecking ball , the 1968 building feels like an archaeological relic . The tour provided one of the last opportunities to survey it , to notice touches easily overlooked on a busy Saturday morning like the old City coat of arms mounted above the stage . The waterlogged floor of the space which housed the snack bar . A floor painting honouring BuskerFest . The banner inviting visitors to check out the temporary farmers market to the south . Time will tell if this incarnation of the north market will be the least mourned .  Additional material from the September 19 , 1904 edition of the Toronto Star and the February 1 , 1969 edition of the Telegram . Unless indicated , photos by Jamie Bradburn/Torontoist.