BMW releases Oktoberfest edition of M3
http://www.ctvnews.ca/autos/bmw-releases-oktoberfest-edition-of-m3-1.2569552

sections  bios  bmw releases oktoberfest edition of m3  the bmw m3 ' m ? nchner wirte ' will make its debut on sept. 19 , 2015 . ( bmw group )  relaxnews published friday , september 18 , 2015 8:15am edt  despite being incredibly busy outlining new technologies , innovations and models at this year 's frankfurt motor show , bmw 's designers have still found time to put together the bmw m3 " m ? nchner wirte , " a special model to mark the start of munich 's world-famous beer festival , which gets underway on saturday .  inspired by bmw 's ties to both munich and motorsport , the special car 's hand-painted external finish incorporates visual elements including munich 's olympic stadium , bmw 's headquarters and the wiesn-sch ? nke beer tent at the oktoberfest event itself .  the flowing blue-on-white mural is the work of walter maurer who , over three decades ago , was the creative mind behind the livery on the bmw m1 procar racer that competed at a number of high-profile are very different , it was surprisingly straightforward to carry over the design from the two-door bmw m1 racer to the four-door bmw m3 sedan , " said maurer .  the " m ? nchner wirte " is the second special ' m ' car that bmw has showcased this week . over in frankfurt where it has been detailing its plans for greener cars with undiluted driving dynamics , it caught motoring journalists off guard by also showing off the m6 competition edition .  the standard m6 coupe is bmw 's performance flagship , and is capable of catapulting its owner and up to four passengers plus luggage from standstill to 100 km/h in 4.2 seconds and on to an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h . and rather than simply being a muscle car , the m6 is just as capable on twisty , turning roads as it is on a drag strip .  however , the new competition edition , the elements of which can be retrofitted to an existing 2015-model year m6 , takes the 4.4-liter twin turbo engine 's power up to to 305km/h . to make even more of the extra power , a number of exterior components have been reworked in carbon fiber and there are a number of subtle aerodynamic tweaks , too .  inside , the cabin is kitted out in fine-grain merino leather while the gear lever trim panels and even the steering wheel spokes are formed from carbon fiber . a head up display is standard to ensure the driver can keep both eyes firmly on the road and the final touch is the choice of a harman kardon or a bang &amp; olufsen sound system .  the m6 competition edition option will be available to order as an m6 specification from late september and prices will start at $25,300 on top of the price of the standard car .  as for the bmw m3 " m ? nchner wirte " it will be on show from september 19 until october 4 at the bmw welt concession within oktoberfest.