University of Windsor celebrates studies in humanities
http://windsorstar.com/uncategorized/education/university-of-windsor-celebrates-studies-in-humanities

University of Windsor celebrates studies in humanities  Studies in literature , language , law , art , philosophy , history and other subjects that fall under the humanities category are " inherent to what makes us human , " according to the president of the University of Windsor .  On Friday , university president Alan Wildeman and members of the university 's Humanities Research Group launched Humanities Week -- the university 's celebration of its many liberal arts programs .  Speaking to a crowd at the university 's new welcome centre , Wildeman took issue with the perception that degrees in humanities -- so-called " soft " degrees -- are n't important or useful .  " I just get so frustrated at hearing some of the rhetoric and dialogue , asking why we should study history and English and so on , " Wildeman told the audience . " It 's a bit like asking a plumber to justify pipes . "  University of Windsor president Alan Wildeman speaks on the humanities on Sept. 18 , 2015 . ( JASON KRYK/ The a degree in the humanities does n't lead to success in the job market has been " debunked . "  According to Wildeman , evidence shows that factors other than your field of study -- such as whether you are a man or woman -- make a bigger difference on your earning potential .  " That 's where society has to get up , " Wildeman said .  Over the coming week , the university will hold a series of events -- special lectures , performances , and more -- meant to recognize the value of academics outside the STEM fields ( science , technology , engineering , and math ) .  Erica Stevens Abbitt , director of the Humanities Research Group , described humanities as " the study of human beings , " and suggested that the question of why they are necessary has become " almost a political battle . "  Ronnie Haidar , former president of the students ' alliance and a volunteer for the Humanities Research Group , emphasized that studies in humanities are ultimately about connections between people . " At , " Haidar said .  As part of Humanities Week , students were encouraged to submit personal answers to the question " why humanities ? " The best answer wins a semester of free tuition .  The five finalists in the contest were announced on Friday : English student Chloe-Lyn Adriaans , English and psychology student Bibi Hijab Balkhi , psychology student Victoria Pedri , philosophy student Dominic Pizzolitto , and engineering student Alexandria Provencher .  Adriaans , an 18-year-old first-year student from St. Thomas , said she plans on pursuing law later in her academic career , but she chose English as her first program because of her enjoyment of reading .  " I 've always loved the classics , " Adriaans said . " Why humanities ? Because we need to remember why we are the way we are before we can change the world . "  " While it 's important to look at the sciences to find out how we can cure cancer or do other things , we need to look at the world within ourselves as well as the world me . "  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .