The magic of Kluane National Park's site 27
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/the-magic-of-kluane-national-park-s-site-27-1.3234547

related stories  boxes of chocolates hardly ever disappoint , aside from when you think you 're getting caramel and you wind up with some stupid cherry or something . but sometimes , things work out .  like when the weather finally breaks , and after two weeks of dreary rain environment canada 's webpage has lots of little suns .  so you load up the camper and head down the road to haines junction , on to the kathleen lake campground in kluane national park . you pause for a moment to enjoy the breath-taking scenery , note the fact the clouds are breaking up , and head to the campground to make the circuit in search of your home for the night .  all of the sites at kathleen lake are outstanding ; the distance from your neighbours and the beautiful picnic tables that are the feature of every site have spoiled you . but as you cruise around , the spark of one long-held dream starts to flicker : could site 27 be available ?  site 27 is at the it 's huge -- bigger than most city housing lots , with the fire pit located off the parking spot , the grounds around it cleared over the years . it may be the most beautiful campsite in the world , and in two decades of coming to this campground it has always , always been occupied .  but what 's this ? there are no rvs parked in site 27 ? no trucks and campers ? not even a dread-locked cyclist cooking quinoa over his impossibly tiny camp stove ?  there 's a tag on the post , which usually indicates the site has been bought and paid for and tonight 's occupant went to the liquor store for " supplies . "  hold the phone : the tag says site 27 was booked for two nights , three days ago . so you do what any normal yukoner would do in this situation .  you freak out .  you open the back of your van and begin flinging camp chairs around site 27 like a tornado just hit a oklahoma trailer park . you and begin shoving money into the box like a dazed bus tour passenger in front of the slot machines at diamond tooth gerties . you ca n't believe your luck .  even when you bow to pressure and go on a hike up the king 's throne rather than simply sit down and enjoy your conquest , part of you is convinced you 'll come back to site 27 and find your van a smouldering ruin with a cruel message left on the picnic table : you are not worthy of site 27 .  then the clouds break and you walk over to gaze at the lake , which so many people have done this at site 27 there 's a little path to the view . you can see deep into st. elias mountains , brilliant white against the now clear blue sky . that night the clouds vanish completely , and you gaze up at more stars than you 've probably even seen in your life .  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .