Fork to Field -- The Market's view of the Future of Food and ...
http://www.farms.com/ag-industry-news/fork-to-field-the-market-s-view-of-the-future-of-food-and-agriculture-in-canada-711.aspx

fork to field -- the market 's view of the future of food and agriculture in canada  it 's not just a play on words , but a major change in perspective . the historical perspective on the supply chain is " field to fork " , but paul uys , senior director , external , the food institute of the university of guelph , challenged everyone to awaken to the new reality that " fork to field " is currently a dominant factor and that consumers are now driving demand for changes in the food supply system .  uys shared his perspective with the audience at the future of food and farming conference at country heritage park on october 6th . he noted that consumers are feeling that they are part of the value chain and that " they have a vote " .  the rise of the socially conscience consumer has been very strong in europe , and is also present in canada . as a former loblaws executive , uys shared some valuable customer insights . when asked what topics should following in order of importance :  47% local sourcing -- local has a broad definition to consumers  44% healthier choices  35% reduction in packaging  34% waste reduction  of medium importance , between 20 to 29% were the following issues :  sustainable seafood  animal welfare  environmentally-friendly consumer products  organically grown foods  food waste  fair trade products  even lower in importance ( 10 to 19% ) to consumers were the following :  energy efficiency and renewable energy  water conservation  climate change  donations  healthy living programs  uys also stated that the three pillars of focus for retailers have changed dramatically since the change in consumer attitudes , they are now as follows :  uys shared the dilemma that food retailers currently face regarding the reduction of waste . as other speakers throughout the day at the food &amp; farming forum pointed out , a large portion of the challenge of feeding the 9 billion people expected to live on the planet in the next 25 years could be achieved by reducing waste . but he retailers , " will they need to sell less to waste less ? "