Revived Oilers take advantage of Detroit gaffes in close-fought game
http://www.edmontonsun.com/2015/10/22/revived-oilers-take-advantage-of-detroit-gaffes-in-close-fought-game

topics  the detroit red wings are not accustomed to losing to the edmonton oilers .  in fact , prior to wednesday 's 3-1 defeat , the red wings had not lost to the oilers in nine games , dating back to feb. 4 , 2012 .  they had not lost in regulation to edmonton since dec. 3 , 2009 .  but this is a different oilers team and detroit is currently trying to find their way under new head coach jeff blashill .  " i think the ( oilers ) have always been skilled and they 've always been fast , but now they believe in the system and they 're doing more things right , " said red wings centre henrik zetterberg . " this was better than our last game , i think we battled harder and won some more battles . we created a little more offence . obviously , those two quick goals hurt us . they 're pretty deadly when they get the chances .  " we felt pretty good after the first period . it 're playing with some better structure and you ca n't really give them any odd-man rushes . "  two goals within 30 seconds in the second period proved the red wings ' undoing .  connor mcdavid undressed goaltender petr mrazek 6:34 into the second period and then defenceman kyle quincey kicked the puck into his own net to give the oilers a 3-0 lead .  " on that second goal , i should have been more patient and maybe the game would have been a little different , " said mrazek . " and the third goal right after , that was a bad bounce , but if the second goal did n't go in , it would have been a different game . "  the loss was the red wings ' third straight , having started the year on a three-game win streak . they 'll conclude a four-game road trip against the calgary flames on friday and the vancouver canucks saturday .  " we were n't great in the first , but we 're on the road , we 're in another team 's about it , " blashill said . " i thought we did a lot of really good stuff in the second and we had two huge blowups and you ca n't win with big blowups . i thought they were n't necessarily systematic errors , they were just a couple of errors on our end , individually . but you ca n't give up breakaways , you ca n't give up two-on-ones , you ca n't give up three-on-twos like that . "  revived oilers take advantage of detroit gaffes in close-fought game  the detroit red wings are not accustomed to losing to the edmonton oilers .  in fact , prior to wednesday 's 3-1 defeat , the red wings had not lost to the oilers in nine games , dating back to feb. 4 , 2012 .  they had not lost in regulation to edmonton since dec. 3 , 2009 .  but this is a different oilers team and detroit is currently trying to find their way under new head coach jeff blashill .  " i think the ( oilers ) have always been they believe in the system and they 're doing more things right , " said red wings centre henrik zetterberg . " this was better than our last game , i think we battled harder and won some more battles . we created a little more offence . obviously , those two quick goals hurt us . they 're pretty deadly when they get the chances .  " we felt pretty good after the first period . it was a pretty tight game the whole way . they 're playing with some better structure and you ca n't really give them any odd-man