Plenty of cabinet material for Trudeau to choose from Nov. 4
http://www.therecord.com/news-story/5972094-plenty-of-cabinet-material-for-trudeau-to-choose-from-nov-4/

plenty of cabinet material for trudeau to choose from nov. 4  goodale  cp  ralph goodale is likely a shoo-in for the new liberal cabinet , as the only liberal elected in saskatchewan and a veteran of cabinets under three previous prime ministers , including trudeau 's late father , pierre .  ottawa -- justin trudeau will swear in a new liberal cabinet on nov. 4 and he 's got an embarrassment of riches to choose from among his 183 newly elected mps .  cabinet making is one of the most difficult tasks facing any prime minister , who must strive to attain geographic , linguistic , ethnic and gender balance .  at the same time , he must find a way to placate the raft of disappointed mps who find their ambitions thwarted so that they do n't become problems down the road .  trudeau has complicated his task by committing to a relatively small cabinet that boasts an equal number of men and women .  ralph goodale is likely a shoo-in , as the only liberal elected in ministers , including trudeau 's late father , pierre . after that , the choices get more difficult .  goodale is likely to be joined by a number of other experienced mps , some of whom have served in previous federal or provincial cabinets . among the veterans who might be tapped for a cabinet post are john mccallum , judy foote , joyce murray , stephane dion , judy sgro , scott brison , dominic leblanc , wayne easter and lawrence macaulay .  but trudeau will also undoubtedly want to include a lot of fresh faces , especially the " stars " he went to considerable trouble to recruit . possible picks among the newcomers include :  * jody wilson-raybould , former b.c. regional chief for the assembly of first nations .  * harjit singh sajjan , a former vancouver police detective and a highly decorated lieutenant-colonel in the canadian armed forces who served three tours in afghanistan and became the first sikh to command a canadian military regiment .  * kent hehr , a former alberta mla .  * darshan kang , another manitoba mla and head of the manitoba business council .  * maryann mihychuk , former manitoba cabinet minister .  * robert-falcon ouellette , one-time winnipeg mayoral candidate , former director of aboriginal programs at university of manitoba .  * bill morneau , head of morneau shepell , the country 's largest human resources consulting company , member of trudeau 's economic advisory group .  * chrystia freeland , former business journalist and author who won a toronto byelection two years ago , member of trudeau 's economic advisory team .  * adam vaughan , former toronto city councillor who won a byelection last year .  * arif virani , lawyer who helped prosecute genocide at the united nations ' international criminal tribunal for rwanda .  * greg fergus , former liberal national director .  * steven mackinnon , another former liberal national director .  * anthony housefather , lawyer and former mayor of c ? te-saint-luc , near montreal .  * marc miller , lawyer and close friend of trudeau 's .  * melanie joly , lawyer , runner-up in former mp , defeated in 2011 , former president of the liberal party 's quebec wing .  * pablo rodriguez , former mp defeated in 2011 .  * andy fillmore , halifax urban planner .  * bill casey , former conservative mp who quit over what he perceived as harper government 's betrayal of atlantic canada , won re-election as an independent before briefly retiring , now back as a liberal .