The 20th anniversary of Canadiens hiring Houle as GM and ...
http://montrealgazette.com/sports/hockey/nhl/montreal-canadiens/the-20th-anniversary-of-canadiens-hiring-houle-as-gm-and-tremblay-as-coach

Wednesday marked the 20th anniversary of the Canadiens hiring former players R ? jean Houle as general manager and Mario Tremblay as head coach .  The hirings came four days after Serge Savard and Jacques Demers had been fired as GM and coach , respectively , only two years after the Canadiens had won the Stanley Cup .  They have n't won another Stanley Cup since .  Here 's the column by Red Fisher that appeared in the Montreal Gazette the day after Houle and Tremblay were hired :  New Hab team has plenty to learn  PUBLISHED ON OCT. 22 , 1995  RED FISHER MONTREAL GAZETTE  The first time this week Ronald Corey had walked this walk to a waiting microphone , it was to bring the universe crashing down on several of hockey 's best-known names . General manager Serge Savard : gone . Head coach Jacques Demers : bye-bye . Andre Boudrias ... Carol Vadnais , both gone as well , after the Canadiens had limped into an 0-4-0 start to this season of hope .  Yesterday hour of 4 p.m. , he was back behind the same microphone , wearing the same pained expression . Blue suit . Dark blue tie . White shirt . Not a hair out of place . He was there not to bury anyone , but to praise his team of " new blood " that later on this night would produce a 4-3 , last-second victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs .  Sitting at a table to his right and looking properly solemn for the occasion were R ? jean Houle , Mario Tremblay and Yvan Cournoyer -- all former bearers of the Canadiens torch . The first two were master plumbers , Cournoyer a former captain with 10 Stanley Cup teams , and a Hall of Famer .  " For those who know me , " Corey crooned into the microphone , " I do things my way . "  So he does -- and what exactly has he done now that Houle has been anointed as Savard 's successor and Tremblay has replaced Demers ( " We needed a coach and a real one , " nation ) . What ?  I have known both of these men from the moment they joined the Canadiens -- Houle in 1969 and Tremblay five years later . I have known Cournoyer since 1963 , and he was among the best of the great Canadiens stars who have pulled us out of our seats hundreds of times . All are good , decent men who have played with pain and stared down adversity , but this mountain they now approach is as difficult a climb as it gets .  They are brave men who are dedicated to winning , because that is what they were taught by great coaches such as Toe Blake and Scotty Bowman . As players , they knew how to win , but this is a new team without a shred of experience in the jobs Mons. Corey delivered to them . There are so many things they do n't know and , sadly , learning how to win all over again at this level takes a lot of time . There are no quick fixes . The 20 Stanley Cup rings they share a period , much less a game .  The rings did n't score the last-second goal against the Leafs . Pierre Turgeon , who had been in an offensive coma during the first five games of the season , did .  Hockey 's best and most successful general manager was Sam Pollock -- and he never earned a ring as a player . What made him successful was that he did n't allow his personal feelings to affect the way he handled his job . He was , for example , deeply disturbed when a number of his players , among them Houle , defected to the World Hockey Association in 1972 and ' 73 , but when the opportunity arose several years later to get Houle back , he did n't hesitate .  " Exactly one minute ago , " Pollock told me on the telephone one day in 1976 , " I signed R ? jean Houle to a contract . "  " You what ? Is that the same guy that had you screaming when he jumped to the Quebec Nordiques ? What made help our team , " Pollock said . " Is that a good enough reason ? "  What Houle must do now , despite his inexperience , is get somebody to help his team . What he must do is to reach out for a quality goaltender to serve as a backup to Patrick Roy . ( Corey was on the telephone a couple of days ago inquiring about Edmonton 's Curtis Joseph ) . He says he needs time to assess what he 's got before making a move . Good idea . A better one for Houle is not to take too much time , because by then it could be too late .  He needs time to learn this business . He 's earned the right to it , but somewhere down the road he 's going to learn that it 's a jungle out there . Picking another guy 's pocket is the most popular game in town .  " What does he do when the time comes to make a three-way deal with , let 's say , Edmonton and Boston ? " happens to be a former general manager and coach . " What does he do when he 's got a couple of sharks like ( Glen ) Sather and ( Harry ) Sinden on the telephone ? "  " Reggie wo n't have to make a call , " Neale responded . " The phones must be ringing already . "  The best player behind the Canadiens ' bench last night was Cournoyer , who scored 428 goals with 10 Stanley Cup teams and won the Conn Smythe Trophy once . The feistiest , by far , was Tremblay . Since his retirement , he 's been employed in the normally non- violent area of radio and television , but he could throw it around during his dozen years as a player -- all of them dedicated to upholding the honour of the CH . There were times , it seems , when he was almost ready to die for it , and one night , he almost did .  He was ready to take on all comers , and that included Dave Schultz , who had built . Schultz , however , was with the Los Angeles Kings and in the twilight of his career as a player and fighter when Tremblay decided to take him on .  Bad mistake . Several punches later , Tremblay was flat on his back , with Schultz sitting on his chest . The former Flyer drew back his right hand for one more shot at Tremblay , glanced down at the stunned Canadiens forward -- and stopped in mid-punch . Then he got to his feet and skated away . Team-mates helped Tremblay to the Canadiens ' bench .  Later , Tremblay and I walked along a hallway leading to the team bus .  " Were you trying to get yourself killed ? " I asked .  " I guess I did n't win that one , " he shrugged .  " Schultz showed me a lot of class , " I said .  " He could have hurt me pretty bad if he had thrown that last one , " Tremblay agreed .  At that moment , Schultz , head down , was , Mario , " I said . " Here 's your chance to get even . "  Tremblay looked up and broke into a broad grin . " Hi , Dave , " he said with a wave of his hand .  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .