Aziz Ansari gives full comic voice to 'Master of None,' his new Netflix ...
http://www.theprovince.com/entertainment/aziz+ansari+gives+full+comic+voice+master+none+netflix/11489409/story.html

In Opinion  Viewpoints  Ron Srigley enjoyed annual teaching contracts at the University of Prince Edward Island for several years . He is now suspended . His story is unusual , but it illustrates one reason university tenure still ...  NEW YORK , N.Y . - By one measure , Aziz Ansari has taken just a baby step with " Master of None . "  The new Netflix comedy series , whose 10 episodes premiere Friday , arrives as the latest in a TV genre of stand-ups ( think Jerry Seinfeld , Louis C.K. , Jim Gaffigan ) depicting versions of themselves both on and off the stage .  But " Master " is its own distinctive thing , thanks to the distinctive voice of Ansari -- a top stand-up who can pack Madison Square Garden in addition to being a capable actor building on his seven-season run as pint-sized impresario Tom Haverford on " Parks and Recreation . " He also created , produced and wrote " Master " ( in cahoots with fellow " Parks and Rec " alum Alan Yang 32-year-old Ansari has n't strayed too far for his new character , Dev , a first-generation Indian-American and aspiring actor who lives in New York , where he has found moderate success doing TV commercials and spends his ample free time with a varied troupe of friends .  " There 's no big premise , " says Ansari . " I tried to make the series similar to stand-up in the way each episode deals with a particular topic : long-term relationships , elderly people , how Indians are stereotyped on TV . I 've enjoyed all the acting work I 've done , but , until now , only in my stand-up have I felt like I 've been able to get out my voice . "  That voice is as bright as his sparkling eyes and luminous grin , and he imbues Dev with an open-minded attitude and almost childlike wonder .  In the series ' first scene , he faces a potentially disastrous mishap : His condom breaks while in bed with Rachel , whom he met hours earlier at a bar .  After Dev spends the rest of the episode in an exploration of the pros and ( many ) cons of parenthood as he observes it among his friends .  Was that scene inspired by a condom crisis of his own ?  " There 's been similar experiences in the bedroom that I 've drawn from , sure , " he concedes . " I do n't think this show is autobiographical , and this guy is a few years less evolved than I am , I 'd like to think . But there 's some overlap . "  But Ansari says that , in ways small and large , he wants his show to feel authentic as well as funny .  Before the bedroom scene was scripted , he recorded an improv conversation with Noel Wells , who plays Rachel .  " I said , ' Let 's pretend we just had sex and the condom broke , ' and I used that to help us craft the dialogue . "  Along with putting out " Master of None , " this year Ansari joined forces " a research-based meditation on finding love . What he learned has definitely informed " Master , " he says , " although I did n't want to do what might be called a dating show . "  " Master " is n't . Besides his amorous adventures with Rachel , Dev hangs with a crowd played by cast members including Eric Wareheim , Lena Waithe and Kelvin Yu . He also has an onscreen mother and dad , portrayed by Fatima and Shoukath Ansari ( on hiatus from his regular job as a gastroenterologist ) , who happen to be the star 's real-life parents .  Ansari was raised in tiny Bennettsville , South Carolina , where , despite his minority status , he recalls being targeted no more harshly than were the fat kid , the new kid and other outsiders .  " My skin colour and different background was just the thing kids made fun of when they made fun of ME , " he explains . " But for the most part , it was OK . "  He enrolled as a marketing suggested itself in the stories he 'd spin for chums that kept them in stitches .  " They 'd say , ' You should do one of those New Talent nights at the comedy clubs , " he recalls . " So I did one and I enjoyed it .  " But my voice as a comedian has continued to evolve into more complicated ideas : deeper stuff about race , my immigrant parents , police brutality . The real trick is n't just making it funny , but getting the audience to think , ' You 've found a deeper insight that strikes a chord with me . ' "  Still , it does n't always have to be complicated .  " Like , I was feeling frustrated how I do n't read enough books . All these great books , and I 'm wasting time looking at Ludacris ' Instagram page ! So I talk about that onstage and when people laugh , I realize I 'm not the only one .  " Once you develop a voice , you can share things that , and everyone will respond . "   EDITOR 'S NOTE -- Frazier Moore is a national television columnist for The Associated Press . He can be reached at fmoore@ap.org and at http : **27;1471;TOOLONG . Past stories are available at http : **39;1500;TOOLONG