Study explores reasons behind NWT's low cancer screening rates
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/nwt-low-cancer-screening-rates-1.3300827

researchers looking for answers about why so many people in the northwest territories are n't going for cancer screening found patients pointed to a lack of access to , and a lack of a long-term relationship with , their health care professionals .  only about half of eligible people are being checked for breast or cervical cancer and only 20 per cent are being screened for colorectal cancer .  for the past year a research team from the university of alberta talked to 368 people in two n.w.t. communities , asking questions such as " have you used the health centre in the community ? " , " how did you feel ? " and " did you feel listened to ? "  dr. gita sharma , who is leading the project , says some of the main reasons they heard for why people are n't getting screening were that there are too few health care professionals in the community , and those that are there do n't stay long enough .  there was also the fear of what a cancer diagnosis could have to go away from your family and friends and go somewhere like edmonton or yellowknife for treatment , " she said . " that takes you away from a supportive , loving environment . "  researchers also asked for suggested solutions . in response , people said they want more permanent health care workers and they want things explained in plain language .  this included " using local languages and using languages in a way that was understandable to a regular community person instead of something where the doctor might talk at a level that some of the community members could n't understand , " sharma said .  sharma will present the study 's findings in yellowknife at the end of the month .  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .