Off-label use of drugs common but risky: study
http://www.rcinet.ca/en/2015/11/03/off-label-use-of-drugs-common-but-risky-study/

off-label use of drugs common but risky : study  once a drug is approved for a particular use , doctors may prescribe it for something else altogether , but a new study has found that sharply increases the risk for an adverse reaction .  electronic records are now being used by , many doctors across canada , and that allowed researchers from mcgill university to look at 151,305 prescriptions written by doctors in quebec province between 2005 and 2009 .  off-label prescriptions caused more adverse reactions  they found that 11.8 per cent of the drugs were prescribed for something other than what they were designed for . these are so-called off-label prescriptions . four-fifths of those involved the use of a drug for a condition where there was no scientific evidence to support it . in those cases , there was a 54 per cent greater chance the patient would have an adverse reaction and that sometimes included death .  for example , the drug quinine is used for malaria , but doctors sometimes prescribe it for restless leg syndrome . however consequences and even death .  ' physicians ... need to be very cautious '  " physicians , i think , need to be very cautious in ... practicing off-label prescribing ... especially where there is a lack of evidence , " concludes prof. tewodros eguale , who led the research team at mcgill university .  " patients need to be told about their drug treatments , " he adds . they need to know what treatments are available , and whether a particular drug is approved for their condition or whether there is any scientific evidence showing it is useful .  regulatory agencies should monitor the off-label use of prescriptions , says eguale . " even if they do n't control the practice of medicine , health canada and other regulatory bodies , i think , have an obligation at least to monitor off-label prescribing because it is their obligation to monitor all drugs . "  more stories  your email address will not be published . required fields are marked *  note : by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that radio canada international comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . radio canada international does not endorse any of the views posted . your comments will be pre-moderated and published if they meet netiquette guidelines .  when you express your personal opinion in an online forum , you must be as courteous as if you were speaking with someone face-to-face . insults and personal attacks will not be tolerated . to disagree with an opinion , an idea or an event is one thing , but to show disrespect for other people is quite another . great minds do n't always think alike -- and that 's precisely what makes online dialogue so interesting and valuable .  netiquette is the set of rules of conduct governing how you should behave when communicating via the internet . before you post a message to a blog or forum , it 's important to read and understand these rules . otherwise , you may be banned from posting .  rcinet.ca 's online forums are not anonymous . users must register , and give their full name and place of residence , which the right not to publish comments if there is any doubt as to the identity of their author .  assuming the identity of another person with intent to mislead or cause harm is a serious infraction that may result in the offender being banned .  rcinet.ca 's online forums are open to everyone , without regard to age , ethnic origin , religion , gender or sexual orientation .  comments that are defamatory , hateful , racist , xenophobic , sexist , or that disparage an ethnic origin , religious affiliation or age group will not be published .  in online speak , writing in all caps is considered yelling , and may be interpreted as aggressive behaviour , which is unpleasant for the people reading . any message containing one or more words in all caps ( except for initialisms and acronyms ) will be rejected , as will any message containing one or more words in bold , italic or underlined characters .  use of vulgar , obscene or objectionable language is prohibited . forums are public places and your comments could offend some .  mutual respect is essential among users . insulting , threatening or harassing another user is prohibited . you can express your disagreement with an idea without attacking anyone .  exchanging arguments and opposing views is a key component of healthy debate , but it should not turn into a dialogue or private discussion between two users who address each other without regard for the other participants . messages of this type will not be posted .  radio canada international publishes contents in five languages . the language used in the forums has to be the same as the contents we publish . the usage of other languages , with the exception of some words , is forbidden . messages that are off-topic will not be published .  making repetitive posts disrupts the flow of discussions and will not be tolerated .  adding images or any other type of file to comments is forbidden . including hyperlinks to other websites is allowed , as long as they comply with netiquette . radio canada international is in no way responsible for the content of such sites , else , even if you credit the author , is unacceptable if that text makes up the majority of your comment .  posting any type of advertising or call to action , in any form , to radio canada international forums is prohibited .  all comments and other types of content are moderated before publication . radio canada international reserves the right to refuse any comment for publication .  radio canada international reserves the right to close a forum at any time , without notice .  radio canada international reserves the right to amend this code of conduct ( netiquette ) at any time , without notice .  by participating in its online forums , you allow radio canada international to publish your comments on the web for an indefinite time . this also implies that these messages will be indexed by internet search engines .  radio canada international has no obligation to remove your messages from the web if one day you request it . we invite you to carefully consider your comments and the consequences of their posting .