Quilts bring warmth to members of the armed forces
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/quilts-bring-warmth-to-members-of-the-armed-forces-1.3313942

Quilts bring warmth to members of the armed forces  Almost 6,300 quilts of valour have been handmade  External Links  ( Note : CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links . )  It 's a warm and fuzzy way to give veterans and members of the Canadian Armed Forces , a warm fuzzy feeling .  In 2006 , an Edmonton quilter presented quilts to three injured members of the Canadian Armed Forces , who were in hospital .  Word got out -- and since then hundreds of crafty Canadians have been making quilts for veterans and current members of the armed forces .  The program quickly took off . In 2009 , Quilts of Valour ( QOV ) got its start as a national program .  There are representatives in nearly every province , including Saskatchewan .  Mary Ewing is the president . She says that since the program started , they have given almost 6,300 quilts .  " You present a quilt to this 6 ' 4 " man and they do n't know what to say . And most men will say they have never been thanked , " said Ewing .  " This is the first time they have ever been thanked for their service . "  Recipients have to be nominated . And there are more requests annually than quilts made most years . Each quilt is given in a formal presentation with family members present , if possible .  Shannon McGilvery of Maidstone , Sask. has been involved in the QOV program for a year now .  We so appreciate everything they have done . I do n't have the bravery or the courage to do what they did. - Shannon McGilvery  She makes or takes quilts that are donated , and then drives all over the province to present a handmade quilt to a veteran from Saskatchewan .  Her husband served in the armed forces with the Royal Canadian Regiment . He was an infantryman and did a couple of overseas tours in Bosnia . He 's retired now , and received a quilt last year .  McGilvery says pleasure .  " We so appreciate everything they have done . I do n't have the bravery or the courage to do what they did , " McGilvery said . " I would n't make it through basic training , so this is my way of giving back to our Canadian Armed Forces . "  People who are interested in making a quilt , nominating a member of the armed forces , or donating money can visit the Quilts of Valour website .  Note : The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . By submitting your comments , you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .