Annie Thabet Appointed to the Board of Directors of ...
http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/annie-thabet-appointed-to-the-board-of-directors-of-transcontinental-inc-tsx-tcl.a-2072649.htm

annie thabet appointed to the board of directors of transcontinental inc .  montreal , quebec-- ( marketwired - nov. 11 , 2015 ) - transcontinental inc . ( tsx:tcl.a ) ( tsx:tcl.b ) today announced the appointment of annie thabet to the corporation 's board of directors . ms. thabet is a partner at celtis capital , a company specializing in transactional services including mergers and acquisitions , divestitures , corporate financing and asset management . also a corporate director , annie thabet has more than 30 years ' experience in business , the management and repositioning of technology and manufacturing companies , and the development of industrial projects with international partners .  " it is with great pleasure that i welcome ms. annie thabet to the board of directors of transcontinental inc. , " said isabelle marcoux , chair of the board of directors . " i am convinced that ms. thabet will contribute to the growth of transcontinental inc. thanks , in part , to her solid and extensive manufacturing , technology and financial background , both in terms of operations and from began her career at price waterhouse and then joined soci ? t ? g ? n ? rale de financement du qu ? bec ( sgf ) in 1987 . in 1998 , she founded at capital , an investment management firm and then co-founded celtis capital in 2003 . ms. thabet is a member of several boards of directors , including le groupe jean coutu , manac , fier c ? te-nord , institute of corporate directors - qu ? bec , and the sherbrooke university business research foundation .  about tc transcontinental  canada 's largest printer , with operations in print and digital media , flexible packaging and publishing , tc transcontinental 's mission is to create products and services that allow businesses to attract , reach and retain their target customers .  respect , teamwork , performance and innovation are strong values held by the corporation and its commitment to all stakeholders is to pursue its business and philanthropic activities in a responsible manner .  transcontinental inc . ( tsx:tcl.a ) ( tsx:tcl.b ) , known as tc transcontinental , has over 8,000 employees c$2.1 billion in 2014 . website www.tc.tc