Twitter's shift from stars to hearts spikes use of button by six per cent
http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/twitter-heart-stars-button-1.3314002

twitter 's shift from stars to hearts spikes use of button by six per cent  the simple button change divided social media users when it was unveiled last week  twitter changed its starred ' favourites ' button to a heart-shaped ' likes ' button last week . despite initial outcry over the change , a twitter employee confirmed that use of the button has spiked six per cent globally since the switch was made . ( richard drew/associated press/staff/canadian press )  related stories  looks like twitter 's jump from starred " favourites " to heart-shaped " likes " has paid off . kevin weil , the company 's senior vice-president of product , says that use of the revised button has spiked by six per cent globally since the change was made last week .  weil made the announcement during a chat at the open mobile summit in san francisco on tuesday .  while twitter explained the reason for the change in a blog post , weil gave a little more detail into why they did it .  " the much more inclusive symbol . you only have a few favourites . there are only a few things that are your favourites but you can like lots of things , " he said .  " the word ' like ' is a word that applies across cultures , across time zones . people just understand it better and so our intuition was that it would actually create more engagement across the platform . "  he said the decision was not made " lightly " and that the company had been testing the revised button in different markets to ensure they were confident in making the switch .  twitter has introduced several new features in the last few months , including " while you were away " , which showcases relevant missed tweets since users last logged in as well as moments , which organizes tweets by trending topics . so far , the feature is only available to users in the u.s. , not in canada .  the company launched a wide scale advertising campaign to promote moments , marking its move towards growth with a wider endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .