Local magician wins award
http://www.abbynews.com/entertainment/358083911.html

An Abbotsford magician received a pleasant surprise in Chilliwack earlier this month .  Magician Gord Boyes unexpectedly received a presidential citation from Joe Turner , the international president of the International Brotherhood of Magicians , at a convention Boyes was running .  Among the verbiage on the award it states " ... his commitment to the enhancement of the art of magic is demonstrated in his exceptional and award-winning work as an editor , convention producer , and professional entertainer . "  In the past Boyes has been presented with numerous awards , including Comedy Magician of the Year , Kidabra Entertainer of the Year , and Children 's Magician of the Year , but he says this one is special .  " My main concern is always about entertaining people and helping them create awesome memories , but having my efforts and accomplishments recognized by my peers and by someone of the stature of Joe Turner is a great honor and this award is something I 'll treasure , " Boyes said .  From Nov. 19 to Nov. 22 , approximately Chilliwack Hotel for the 82nd annual convention of the Pacific Coast Association of Magicians ( PCAM ) .  This convention is held in a different city along the Pacific Coast each year , and this year Boyes -- the PCAM president -- and co-producer Mike Norden decided to hold it in Chilliwack .  Boyes moved to Abbotsford in 2005 from Las Vegas , Nevada . Soon after moving to Abbotsford , Boyes and his son Jesse joined the Vancouver Magic Circle , and a few years later Boyes became president of that organization .  For several years Boyes and Jesse performed a father and son act named The Magic Boyes , and when Jesse decided to concentrate on other activities , Boyes continued to perform solo as The Great Gordini .  In the spring of 2012 , Boyes was one of the founding members of the Fraser Valley Magic Circle and two years later became president of that organization .  We encourage an open exchange of ideas on this story 's topic , but we ask you to follow our guidelines for respecting community standards . be removed , and comment privileges revoked , per our Terms of Use . Please see our FAQ if you have questions or concerns about using Facebook to comment .