Hectic race kicks off lobster season
http://www.muskokaregion.com/news-story/6141158-hectic-race-kicks-off-lobster-season/

Hectic race kicks off lobster season  HALIFAX - Before the crack of dawn Monday , Hubert Saulnier and nearly 5,000 other lobster fishermen prepare for the most hectic and lucrative day of their season .  " Dumping Day " in Southern Nova Scotia falls on the last Monday in November , where 1,500 fishing boats depart at the same time , usually 6:00 a.m. , to let out their lobster traps for the year .  " It 's the worst day of the season , " said Saulnier , captain of the Lindy Dawn and 46-year veteran of Dumping Day . " In the winter it 's cold and rough sometimes , but it 's not as bad as Dumping Day . "  The stakes are high for those involved as the fishing vessels race to lay claim to the best spots .  " Everybody has their favourite place to fish for obvious reasons , " said Hubert . " It 's a race , you want to get out there and you want to drop your traps and you want to you have another load . "  Not being able to lay claim to the best spots can mean thousands in lost revenue , missing out on the day completely is almost out of the question .  " If you miss out on the first few days because your boat breaks down , ... you just have to bear with the situation and live with it , " said Saulnier . " It 's not so good when you 're tied up in the wharf ... and you see people coming in with five-six thousand pounds of lobster . "  Lobster fishing in the Canadian Atlantic ocean is divided into districts , each with its own separate fishing season . The southern part of Nova Scotia , Districts 33 and 34 , open for lobster fishing on the last Monday in November and the season remains open until May 31 .  Districts 33 and 34 are widely considered the largest and most lucrative lobster regions in the country . District 34 alone accounts for roughly 23 per cent of all North American lobster .  " It 's important for the economy ... and to Canada as a whole because it 's a very lucrative fishery , " said Mark Comley , area chief of Southwest Nova Scotia with the Department of Fisheries and Oceans .  The unpredictability of the weather and the intense competition for the best lobster fishing spots contributes to making Dumping Day a fairly dangerous endeavour .  " We 've lost a few boats ; we 've lost a few lives , " said Saulnier .  Times have changed and safety has become of the utmost concern . Before anyone heads out , everyone must agree it 's safe . The past two Dumping Days have been delayed because of the weather .  Safety on Dumping Day is also of high concern for the Canadian Coast Guard , where two ships will be patrolling the area before the 6:00 a.m. start time . The Coast Guard will be also pre-positioning three life boats in the region and will have two military rescue aircraft on " enhanced standby . "  Saulnier said the changes have come from more than just the to keep up has forced virtually everyone to improve their fleet .  In the past , if it was dark or if the wind blew more than 40 kilometres an hour , fishermen would pack it in for the day . Now the operation runs around the clock and in much worse conditions .  " It 's changed from something to do , to a job , " said Saulnier .  The exact value of the lobster will be determined by how many everyone brings in , but Saulnier said he 's hoping for $5 per pound .  " The main thing is hopefully everyone comes home Monday night with their traps in the water and everyone is safe and nobody gets hurt . "