Movember fundraiser droops as moustache trend wanes
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/movember-fundraiser-decline-1.3342534

organizers say the men 's health fundraising campaign reached its peak three or four years ago .  in 2012 , it raised $42.4 million , according to records filed with the canada revenue agency . last year it raised barely over half that -- $23.3 million .  this year , the movember foundation had raised only $12.9 million by nov. 29 .  the short life of a fundraising idea  normand bourgault , a marketing professor at the university of quebec in outaouais , says these kinds of campaigns do n't have a lot of staying power .  " the life cycle of a fundraising idea , of a fashionable idea , is quite short : two , three or four years , " he said .  " after that , you have to come up with a new idea or new concept that adds something to the original idea . "  bourgault drew a parallel between movember and the ice bucket challenge , which raised millions for als research after sweeping social media last year . he said trends tend .  rendall sylvain-hernandez , who runs a communication firm in gatineau , que. , grew a moustache for movember in 2014 . this year , he decided to pass .  " my way of participating now is educating friends , relatives , family and not by growing a moustache , " he said , adding that when he grew one in 2011 he was in university with friends , and " it was funny . "  broadened focus  patrice lavoie , a volunteer spokesman for the movember foundation , acknowledged the campaign has lost steam . as a result , the foundation no longer focuses solely on the moustache campaign .  " there are activities all year , " he said .  " we organize activities for father 's day and , for example , when soldiers return home from abroad . "  since 2003 , movember has raised $677 million worldwide and funded over 1,000 projects focusing on prostate cancer , testicular cancer , poor mental health and physical inactivity , according to the foundation 's website .  note : the cbc by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .