Meet four international scholars from U of T Engineering
http://news.engineering.utoronto.ca/meet-four-international-scholars-from-u-of-t-engineering/

Two students from Jordan and Singapore are the first recipients of the International Scholar Award , a new scholarship that enhances U of T Engineering 's ability to attract top students from around the world .  The award covers full tuition and is renewable for up to four years . It recognizes students studying abroad who have exceptional marks , are involved in extra-curricular activities and want to use their engineering degrees to improve the world . Tamara Abugharbieh ( Year 1 EngSci ) and Katherine Bancroft ( Year 1 General First Year ) are this year 's winners .  Another first-year student , Minh Tue Pham ( Year 1 EngSci ) , received a U of T International Scholar Award , which is open to students from any Faculty .  " On behalf of the Faculty , I would like to extend my heart-felt congratulations to Katherine , Tamara and Minh , " said Dean Cristina Amon . " Engineering challenges know no borders , and our ability to draw exceptional students from other countries enriches our Faculty and enhances the global perspectives U of T Engineering has increased substantially over the past decade thanks to the Faculty 's strong global rankings , targeted recruitment strategies and scholarships aimed at students from abroad . International students comprise 30 per cent of this year 's entering undergraduate class , and more than one-quarter of the total student body comes from outside Canada , representing 109 countries .  U of T Engineering caught up with the three scholarship winners , as well as an upper-year international student , to find out how they are enjoying the year :  Tamara Abugharbieh -- Engineering Science  Abugharbieh , the child of two engineers , was raised in Jordan . She was always eager to follow in her parents ' footsteps . At school , Abugharbieh was a member of the robotics team and won a medal for innovation and critical thinking . " I enjoy researching projects that help improve society , " she says .  While working on a school essay , Abugharbieh came across the writing of U of T alumnus Malcolm Gladwell . She was inspired by his thinking , and by laureate John Polanyi . " I saw U of T as a place where I can learn how to become an innovative thinker and a leader of change , " she says .  Abugharbieh received the news of her acceptance with " bouncing and dancing . " She enrolled in Engineering Science , a program known for its academic rigour . While she admits it has been challenging , Abugharbieh says the close-knit community of students is a great source of strength . " It is creating a special bond between me , my colleagues and the program , " she says .  In the future , Abugharbieh wants to specialize in energy systems engineering , and ideally carry her knowledge back to her home country . " Jordan and the Middle East in general have a great solar energy resource that needs investment and technology , " she says . " My dream is to be a Jordanian pioneer or entrepreneur who transfers knowledge or creates a spinoff company in this area , which is desperate for a breakthrough . "  Katherine Bancroft -- General First Year culture kid , " was born in Toronto but has spent significant portions of her life living in Sydney , Australia , and Singapore . She became fascinated by engineering design in high school when she toured a chemical engineering lab and saw a " switchable solvent " designed to help clean the material left over from oil sands extraction . " The link between applied science and environmental sustainability definitely captured my interest , " she says .  What attracted her to U of T was the vibrant nature of the Skule community . " The diversity and inclusiveness , coupled with the fun traditions , made U of T a place I wanted to be , " she says . " The opportunities available through the Professional Experience Year and the incorporation of design from year one made the engineering program especially appealing . "  Bancroft is enjoying the challenge of first year , particularly the variety of her courses . " There 's something different going on every single day , " she says . Bancroft has volunteered at Hi-Skule 's Mentorship Coffeehouse , which brought from undergraduates like her . She has also joined Iron Dragon , the Skule dragon boat team , and plays flute in the Lady Godiva Memorial Bnad sic .  Bancroft plans to use her U of T Engineering degree to address global issues such as water scarcity and sustainable use of resources . She sees herself working for industry or in research , ideally collaborating with people across many nations and cultures . " I believe that economic growth and environmental sustainability need not be mutually exclusive , " she says . " I hope to work to make this more of a reality , especially in developing nations . "  Minh Tue Pham -- Engineering Science  Pham was born in Vietnam , and from an early age showed an immense passion for mathematics and natural science . " I was captivated by their power to express and describe the world , " he says . In high school , he co-created and managed a volunteer community service organization , which showed him the importance of working to improve society and shifted his career aspirations from theoretical science T by the quality of its education and the reputation of the Engineering Science program . He likes that it combines theory and practice and provides valuable exposure to many disciplines within engineering . Pham has not decided what discipline he will pursue , but his favourite courses are civil engineering and computer science . " My favourite thing about U of T is how easily approachable the professors and the teaching teams are , " he says . " I feel very comfortable coming to the EngSci office to chat with my student counsellor about the future . "  Outside class , Pham is participating in The Game , a competition run by the Institute for Leadership Education in Engineering ( ILead ) that aims to identify a problem facing society and design a possible solution . " Working together with completely new teammates , most of them upper years , has proved to be a very valuable experience , " he says .  As for the future , Pham sees many possibilities . He may choose civil engineering , computer engineering or something else . He may my engineering background with my newfound passion in business and economics to start up a firm all of my own . " Wherever he goes , Pham is sure that his U of T Engineering education will prove invaluable . " I believe that it will give me the necessary knowledge and skills to take on any challenge after I graduate , " he says . " The possibilities are endless . "  Ernesto Diaz Lozano Pati ? o -- Year 4 Civil Engineering  Diaz Lozano Pati ? o has engineering in his blood : his father , uncle , great-uncle and great-grandfather were all engineers . But for Pati ? o , who was born and raised in Mexico City , studying engineering at home was not enough .  " In the movie The Motorcycle Diaries , they say ' Let the world change you , and you can change the world ' , " says Diaz Lozano Pati ? o , who is president of U of T 's Engineering Society . " I saw coming to Canada as my opportunity to let the world change the excellence of the faculty members as one of the best things about his U of T experience . " The Civil program is absolutely wonderful , " he says . " I have been amazed at how tightly knit the department is , and how much the professors care to connect with their students . "  Like many international students , Diaz Lozano Pati ? o plans to use his education to address challenges that apply to both his home country and to other places around the world . " I see myself helping build the cities of the future , " he says . " We live in a world full of inequality ; it was almost impossible for me to believe , when I was in Mexico , that there were people living under cardboard roofs a mere hour drive away from the some of the wealthiest people on earth . We need change , and I believe engineers will be instrumental in leading this change . "