New Horizons and union disagree about impact of scheduling change
http://www.campbellrivermirror.com/news/362864101.html

Connect with Us  New Horizons and union disagree about impact of scheduling change  Laurel Albina of the Hosptital Employees ' Union addresses some concerned citizens and family members of the residents of New Horizons Care Home on Wednesday at an informal rally held at the facility . HEU is concerned about upcoming cuts to care aid hours , while management says those hours are compensated by increased hours for LPNs .  Some staff of New Horizons Care Home , their union and family members of those living in the facility are crying foul again after what they say is a proposal by the facility 's operator to cut staff hours beginning in the new year .  This week they took to the streets , town hall forums and city council chambers to express their displeasure .  Meanwhile , New Horizons management says the allegations being put forth by the union are inaccurate .  An informal gathering of concerned parties gathered along 16th Avenue beside the facility on Wednesday to discuss the matter .  Two days before , Lois Jarvis , group devoted to ensuring adequate healthcare facilities in the region -- and Barb Biley , regional vice-president of the Hospital Employees ' Union ( HEU ) for Vancouver Island North , who represent the employees of New Horizons , presented their views on the topic at the last meeting of the calendar year of Campbell River city council .  Jarvis and Biley were asking council to write a letter to Dr. Brian Carr , president and CEO of Island Health and Health Minister Terry Lake to request a review and investigation into the alleged cuts , " and the negative impacts they will have on our vulnerable seniors . "  " The profit model that is being used in seniors ' care facilities is proving to be a total failure , " Jarvis told council . " Individuals should not be profiting from residential care . We object to our tax dollars being used to provide inadequate care for our seniors and a lower standard of employment for their caregivers . "  While some people see it simply as a dispute present in many businesses -- employees arguing of public or political discussion , Jarvis feels differently .  " This is not just a union/management issue , " she told council . " It is about care being provided to our seniors in their final years , " which she sees as a social responsibility .  And that care is threatened with the upcoming cuts to hours at the facility , according to the HEU .  A letter recently sent out to residents of New Horizons and their families , signed by Sandra Murphy , director of care at the facility , seems to disagree .  " There are no layoffs or reduction in direct care hours at New Horizons Care Home as claimed by the HEU , " reads the letter .  In the letter , Murphy outlines the upcoming changes in scheduling , saying they actually improve the work environment for staff , improve care for residents , " and also meet the health authority 's care model for increased hours by registered nurses . "  Murphy 's letter admits that under the new schedule there are fewer hours available for it is offset by the increased hours being assigned to Licensed Practical Nurses ( LPNs ) , " with the same budget being spent on providing an excellent standard of professional care to all New Horizons residents . "  Laurel Albina , marketing representative with HEU , said at Wednesday 's meeting that they ca n't speak to the hours of LPNs and registered nurses , but the cuts to RCAs are " significant . "  HEU claims that in the two years since Care Corp has taken over operations at New Horizons , there has been a 63 per cent staff turnover rate , which is indicative of the conditions of their employment . Staff turnover also negatively impacts residents ' quality of life , as they are unable to form bonds with their care workers when they lack continuity , Biley says .  Jarvis agrees .  " There 's a relationship that develops -- a loving relationship between the caregivers and the people they 're caring for -- and that 's continually being broken with the turnover . It 's not healthy for the residents that continuity will actually increase under the new scheduling , as the schedules are designed to have staff cover the same shift every day .  " Our caregivers welcome this change , " the letter reads , " since they can better schedule their lives around a standard shift .  " Our residents enjoy the consistency of seeing the same caregivers at the same time each day . "  Rachel Blaney , MP for North Island -- Powell River , also stopped by the meeting on Wednesday at New Horizons .  She 's in town while the House of Commons is on break over the holidays , and said that although healthcare is a provincial responsibility , it 's her responsibility as the area 's federal representative to keep abreast of the concerns of her constituents .  " I just wanted to come down and hear from people about what is happening , " Blaney said . " It sounds like there are some concerns here , and I 'm open to hearing more about those concerns . "  Those concerns were possibly expressed most New Horizons facility .  He and his wife come over from Quadra frequently to visit his mother , and says he has seen first hand the deterioration of services over the years .  " I 'd rather be dead than be in there , " he said at the information meeting on the side of 16th Avenue on Wednesday .  " I 'm serious . From what I 've seen , the people that are working there , that are on the floors , they 're getting their butts run off , and they 're great , but there 's just not enough people . "  HEU , more than anything else at this point , thinks there needs to be better communication around the subject of staffing requirements and expenditures .  " We had a meeting set up ( with management ) that was cancelled , and our follow up calls would n't be committed to , " Albina said .  " I think that some transparency and open communication is exactly what 's needed from Care Corp and Park Place at this point forward . "  We encourage an open exchange of ideas on this story 's topic , but we ask you to follow our guidelines for respecting community standards . Personal attacks , inappropriate language , and off-topic comments may be removed , and comment privileges revoked , per our Terms of Use . Please see our FAQ if you have questions or concerns about using Facebook to comment .