2015 proved deadly for many people around the world
http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/year-end-2015-natural-disasters-1.3346639

floods , cyclones , wildfires , heat waves , earthquakes and landslides made 2015 a devastating year for a lot of people around the world . we take a look at some of the worst natural disasters of the past year .  january 2015  flooding in southeastern africa  unusually heavy rains hit malawi and caused widespread flooding , leaving 200 people dead or missing and 120,000 forced from their homes , according to unicef . the aid agency said it was " a race against time " to reach displaced communities , as stagnant water and poor sanitation threatened to kill children in one of the poorest countries in southern africa . in neighbouring mozambique , the rains caused extreme flooding of river basins and cut off communities . twenty-five people were reportedly killed in that country .  raw : flooding in mozambique1:04  march 2015  cyclone pam rips through vanuatu  winds of 270 kilometres an hour tore through the 65-island south pacific archipelago , home to about 267,000 people . one of the heavily damaged areas was the capital , was even worse on the outer island of tanna , where the australian military estimated about 80 per cent of the buildings were flattened , and the hospital and airport were damaged . to complicate matters , the island 's remote location made it difficult for rescuers to get through . throughout vanuatu , an estimated 11 people were killed and thousands were left homeless .  april 2015  deadly earthquake devastates nepal  on april 25 , a 7.8 magnitude earthquake left more than 8,000 people dead in nepal and turned much of the country , including the capital , kathmandu , into a disaster zone . the earthquake triggered an avalanche on mount everest that killed 19 climbers . about three weeks later , a 7.3 magnitude earthquake rocked nepal again , killing dozens more people , injuring hundreds and terrifying the country 's citizens just as they were trying to rebuild from the first disaster .  may/june 2015  heat waves kill thousands in india and pakistan  by the end of may , about 2,200 people in india were dead from a raging heat wave c. most of the people killed were in andhra pradesh and telangana states in the southern part of the country .  in june , the worst heat wave in at least a decade hit southern pakistan , particularly the port city of karachi . more than 830 people died as temperatures reached as high as 45 c. karachi 's inefficient power grid and shortage of potable water were blamed for worsening the situation . on the worst days , people in the city of 20 million tried to get water from broken pipes .  july 2015  flash floods hit pakistan  triggered by monsoon rains , flash floods killed more than 100 people in various parts of pakistan and left tens of thousands homeless , according to the country 's national disaster management authority . more than 2,000 villages were flooded .  pakistani flood victims wade through floodwater to reach their homes in peshawar on aug. 3 , 2015 . flooding affected more than 800,000 people in 2,275 villages . ( mohammad sajjad/associated press )  almost 3,000 homes collapsed or suffered damage . in the northwestern bridges and a power station were destroyed .  wildfires force largest evacuation in saskatchewan 's history  hot weather , very dry conditions and lightning strikes contributed to hundreds of wildfires in western canada during the summer of 2015 . in saskatchewan , more than 13,000 people were forced from their homes in the largest evacuation effort in the province 's history . the canadian military was dispatched to help in the hard-hit la ronge area , about 380 kilometres north of saskatoon .  the increased wildfire activity in 2015 -- and the ballooning firefighting costs -- prompted saskatchewan premier brad wall and b.c. premier christy clark to call for a national forest fire plan by next year .  september 2015  california wildfires  california suffered one of its worst forest fire seasons on record in 2015 as wildfires raged in northern parts of the state . one fire , north of san francisco , was the fourth-worst blaze in california 's history , with three people killed and more than 1,000 homes destroyed .  a firefighter watches a tree burn as a fire rages near . the state had one of its worst fire seasons on record in 2015 . ( noah berger/reuters )  a separate fire in the sierra nevada foothills killed two people and ruined more than 500 homes . a volunteer firefighter lost his own home while out battling blazes . thousands of people were evacuated from dozens of communities . according to the cal fire website , there were more than 6,200 wildfires throughout the state in 2015 , burning about 125,000 hectares of land . compare that to 2014 , when cal fire documented about 4,200 wildfires that burned about 77,000 hectares .  chile earthquake  on sept. 16 , an 8.3 magnitude earthquake killed 11 people in central chile and triggered tsunami warnings as far away as hawaii and california . more than one million people fled their homes and waves up to 4.5 metres high slammed into chile 's northern port city of coquimbo , washing large fishing boats up onto the streets .  people walk to higher ground for safety in valparaiso , chile , on sept. 16 , 2015 , after a mass evacuation a magnitude 8.3 earthquake that hit off the coast of chile . ( rodrigo garrido/reuters )  still , many people who remember the devastating 8.8. magnitude quake of 2010 , which caused a massive tsunami and killed more than 500 people , were relieved the death toll and destruction was n't worse . when september 's earthquake struck , the chilean government ordered evacuations from coastal areas and said it had learned from previous disasters .  japan floods  heavy rain after tropical storm etau pummelled japan in september and triggered huge floods , forcing thousands of people from their homes . when the kinugawa river broke through a flood berm in joso near tokyo , it washed away entire houses and left hundreds of people stranded . many waited on rooftops to be rescued .  october 2015  u.s. floods  u.s. president barack obama declared a state of emergency after hurricane joaquin-related storms slammed south carolina with floods . streets and roads turned into rivers , leaving many people trapped in their cars . a dozen people died of weather-related causes in south carolina and neighbouring was swept away by floodwaters ; another man drowned after he drove around a barricade . a transportation worker was also among those killed . south carolina governor nikki haley said 550 roads and bridges had to be closed across the state .  november 2015  deadly australian wildfires  four people were killed and hundreds of homes were evacuated as wildfires raged across southwest australia in november . fierce winds and a heat wave were blamed for making the fires worse as firefighters tried to contain them . november is summertime in the southern hemisphere , and wildfires are common across much of australia during the season .  burma landslide  on nov. 21 , a landslide in burma , also known as myanmar , killed more than 100 people when a 60-metre high mountain of dirt discarded by mining companies collapsed . the disaster happened in the mining community of hpakant in the jade-rich northern part of the country .  a landslide near the hpa kant jade mine in northern burma in november killed up to 60 people . ( zaw moe htet/epa )  at through the mining waste looking for jade to sell -- a common occurrence in the extremely poor town . later , they said the landslide happened in the middle of the night and buried more than 70 makeshift huts where the miners slept .  december 2015  chennai floods after heaviest rainfall in 100 years  massive floods in india drove thousands of people from their homes in december after the heaviest rainfall in more than a century hit the state of tamil nadu . more than 250 people died -- some by electrocution before authorities turned power off in some areas .  a man uses a board to float through a flooded street to reach to a marketplace in chennai , india 's fourth-largest city . the heaviest rainfall in more than a century hit the state of tamil nadu in december , killing more than 250 people and submerging parts of chennai in up to three metres of water . ( anindito mukherjee/reuters )  vast swaths of chennai -- india 's fourth-largest city -- were under up to three metres of water . homes and cars or jumping out windows onto makeshift rafts .  note : the cbc does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted . by submitting your comments , you acknowledge that cbc has the right to reproduce , broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever . please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines .