Alex Turner + Arctic Monkeys: The 20 defining moments of his career
http://www.gigwise.com/photos/87342/alex-turner-credits-arctic-monkeys-creative-freedom-to-domino-records

alex turner + arctic monkeys : the 20 defining moments of his career  1 . turner and his band arctic monkeys sign to domino records in 2005 . debut single ' i bet you look good on the dancefloor ' is released in october that year and goes straight to no.1 .  2 . arctic monkeys ' debut album , whatever people say i am , that 's what i 'm not , is released in 2006 . it becomes the fastest-selling debut album in british history and to this day remains the fastest-selling album by a group in the uk , selling 363,735 copies in its first week . turner 's songwriting abilities and lyricism in particular are praised by many reviewers , with the nme calling him a " master of observation " .  3 . in 2006 the band 's debut album wins the mercury music prize and album of the year at both the q and nme awards . they won best british breakthrough at the brit awards and best new band , best british band and best track for at the nme awards .  4 . second album favourite worst nightmare is released on april 23rd , 2007 and goes straight to no.1 . it includes the singles , ' brianstorm ' , ' fluorescent adolescent ' and ' teddy picker ' .  5 . arctic monkeys headline the pyramid stage at glastonbury festival in june 2007 . despite their set being widely praised , turner admits he does n't feel like they nailed the performance . " i do n't think we got ( glastonbury ) quite right when we did it , " he tells gq at the time . luckily , it was n't to be their last crack at it ...  6 . in mid 2007 , turner starts dating tv presenter alexa chung , and the relationship brings on an even higher level of fame for turner , with the pair regularly appearing in tabloids and gossip magazines before splitting in 2011 . humbug track ' the fire and the thud ' is allegedly about chung .  7 . in december 2007 the arctic monkeys play manchester apollo , which is , and released in cinemas the following year .  8 . in february 2008 , arctic monkeys win best british group at the brit awards and best british band , best track for ' fluorescent adolescent ' and best music video for ' teddy picker ' at the nme awards .  9 . in april 2008 , turner releases an album with former rascals frontman miles kane and james ford of simian mobile disco under the name the last shadow puppets . the age of the understatement goes to no. 1 and is nominated for that year 's mercury prize .  10 . in october 2008 , turner makes his debut as a short story writer . spoken word track ' a choice of three ' appears on bandmate matt helders ' late night tales compilation .  11 . arctic monkeys ' third album , humbug , is released on 19th august 2009 and like both its predecessors , goes straight to no.1 . though the singles do n't do much in the way of climbing the charts , with ' crying lightning ' being the biggest to praise turner 's lyricism , with the guardian calling his work on humbug " dazzling " .  12 . arctic monkeys headline reading &amp; leeds festivals for the first time in august 2009 .  13 . in august 2011 , turner releases his first solo work , writing and performing all six tracks on the soundtrack to submarine , the critically acclaimed coming of age film directed by richard ayaode . turner joined forces with james ford again to make the record , which is almost completely acoustic .  14 . arctic monkeys ' fourth album suck it and see is released in june 2011 , and heads straight to no. 1 , making the band the second in history to have four no. 1 albums in a row .  15 . arctic monkeys play two large-scale hometown shows at the don valley bowl in sheffield on 10th &amp; 11th june 2011 . with support from miles kane , the vaccines , dead sons and anna calvi .  16 . the night before a show with the last shadow puppets in october 2011 , their , receiving a standing ovation , and later describes it as his most memorable performance ever .  17 . arctic monkeys play the london olympics opening ceremony in 2012 , where they cover the beatles classic , ' come together ' which is later released as a single and enters the top 40 . " you think , " oh , where do you go after that ? " turner later said of the experience .  18 . turner appears on queens of the stone age album ? like clockwork in june 2013 , lending his vocals to track ' if i had a tail ' , and co-writing ' kalopsia ' .  19 . arctic monkeys headline glastonbury for the second time in june 2013 . turner receives criticism for his americanised accent , with some dubbing him " sheffield 's elvis " . turner later claims it " was n't intentional " , adding the band 's performance was one of the best gigs they 've ever done .  20 . arctic monkeys release their fifth album , am , in september 2013 . the becomes the fastest-selling record of the year in the uk , shifting 100,000 copies in three days . it 's also nominated for the year 's mercury prize .  alex turner 's brit awards speech was one of the talking points of this year 's show , and lead singer of the arctic monkeys , alex turner 's insightful , witty lyricism and trademark sheffield drawl has leds british music for a generation .  from the moment he shuffled onto the stage in the video for debut single ' i bet you look good on the dancefloor ' , mumbling " do n't believe the hype " , turner has been one of the most interesting figures in uk music , and this year his icon status has been cemented even further with the release of the monkeys ' critically acclaimed fifth album am .  he may have gone from singing about local indie discos and kebab shops to living in los angeles and dating supermodels , but turner stays grounded as ever . today ( january 6 ) he turns 28 , so what better reason to ?