High-school football player convicted of Steubenville rape is released
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jan/06/high-school-football-steubenville-rape-released

WTOV-TV in Steubenville , Ohio reported on Sunday evening that Ma'Lik Richmond had been released . His attorney , Walter Madison , issued a statement saying the youth was " braced for the balance of his life " and that he and his family were requesting privacy .  " While away , Ma'Lik has reflected , learned , matured , and grown in many ways , " Madison said in the statement . " He is a better , stronger person and looks forward to school , life , and spending time with family . "  Richmond was sentenced to one year in March 2013 . A judge convicted him and another Steubenville High School student athlete , Trent Mays , of raping the West Virginia girl in August 2012 . Mays was also convicted of using his phone to take a naked picture of the underage girl . He was sentenced to two years .  Asked for comment , the attorney for the girl , Bob Fitzsimmons , said in a statement on Monday it was " disheartening " that no mention of on Richmond 's behalf .  " One would expect to see the defendant publicly apologize for all the pain he caused rather than make statements about himself , " Fitzsimmons said . " Rape is about victims , not defendants . "  Madison did n't immediately respond to messages from the Associated Press , seeking comment . Ohio attorney general Mike DeWine 's office said he had no comment .  Jefferson County judge Thomas Lipps last August gave Richmond Ohio 's second-toughest sex offender classification , the same as Mays had received . Richmond must register as a sex offender every six months for 20 years . However , he can request to have the classification removed later , based on rehabilitation history , and his name wo n't be included on publicly accessible websites . Richmond was 16 at the time of the rape .  The case drew wide attention amid allegations of a cover-up to protect the celebrated Steubenville High School football team . DeWine convened a grand jury to look into possible related crimes , resulting in charges against six people . The Steubenville trial , on charges he misled investigators . He and other school officials charged have pleaded not guilty .