Detectives interview Piers Morgan about phone-hacking allegations ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/crime/detectives-interview-piers-morgan-about-phone-hacking-allegations-at-daily-mirror-9128835.html

Journalist Piers Morgan was the editor of the Daily Mirror from almost a decade . Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for The New Yorke  Piers Morgan , the former editor of the Daily Mirror , has been interviewed under caution by specialist detectives from Scotland Yard investigating phone hacking .  The Metropolitan Police confirmed it had spoken to a 48-year-old journalist as part of Operation Golding , an off-shoot of Operation Weeting , which probed illegal phone interception at the News of the World and was later widened to include Trinity Mirror newspapers .  Mr Morgan confirmed that following a voluntary statement which he had supplied to police last year , Scotland Yard subsequently interviewed him under caution at a south London police station on 6 December . The interview followed a formal request that he attend . The Met confirmed that Mr Morgan had not been arrested .  In a statement , Mr Morgan , who is now based in the United States as an interviewer on the CNN news channel , said he was asked by Operation Weeting to attend the interview " His Atlanta-based employer said it had been informed immediately after Mr Morgan had been called by Scotland Yard . Trinity Mirror declined to comment . Mr Morgan edited the Daily Mirror from 1995 until 2004 , when he was dismissed after the newspaper published staged pictures of Iraqi prisoners being abused by British soldiers .  Some of Mr Morgan 's former colleagues at Trinity Mirror were arrested in dawn raids last year as part of the phone hacking investigation at the Met . He has always denied any involvement in the illegal practice .  The interview under caution of the television star means that , including Mr Morgan , six senior journalists from Mirror titles have now been arrested or formally interviewed in connection with the police 's phone hacking investigation .  Tina Weaver , the former Sunday Mirror editor , the paper 's former deputy editor Mark Thomas , the People editor James Scott and his deputy , Nick Buckley , were arrested in March last year . The day after the arrests , the former Daily Mirror editor Richard Wallace was also questioned under caution . Leveson Inquiry into press ethics that he had not been aware of any phone hacking taking place at the Mirror while he was in charge .  Saying he had " no reason " to believe it was going on during his editorship , he told the inquiry that " not a single person " had made a formal or legal complaint against the Mirror in connection with the illegal practice .  Although he told the inquiry he had been played a recording of a voicemail left on the phone of Sir Paul McCartney by his former wife , Heather Mills , he refused to discuss the details , claiming it would " compromise " the source of the information .  In a 2007 interview given to the Press Gazette , Mr Morgan described hacking as " an investigative practice that everyone knows was going on at almost every paper in Fleet Street for years . "  In the Leveson Report , published in November 2012 , Mr Morgan 's assertion that he had no knowledge of phone hacking was described by Lord Justice Leveson as " utterly , who also gave evidence to Leveson , described hacking as " a bog-standard journalistic tool " at the paper .  At the phone hacking trial running at the Old Bailey , it emerged that former Sunday Mirror journalist Dan Evans had pleaded guilty to hacking phones over 18 months between 2003 and 2005 , at which time he left to work at the News of the World .