89-year-old in court accused of slashing neighbour's throat in ...
http://www.theboltonnews.co.uk/news/11012848.89_year_old_in_court_accused_of_slashing_neighbour_s_throat_in_Breightmet/

89-year-old in court accused of slashing neighbour 's throat in breightmet  a pensioner accused of slashing his neighbour 's throat has made his first appearance at bolton crown court .  william dutton , aged 89 , of breightmet drive , breightmet , is accused of wounding 60-year-old steven waring with intent , and is also charged with possession of a bladed article .  the incident is alleged to have taken place on sunday , january 26 , in the front garden of a semi-detached house in breightmet drive .  dutton , dressed in a long green overcoat and glasses , stumbled into the dock and was asked by recorder david turner qc if he could hear him , to which dutton replied " not properly " .  the court heard that the 89-year-old has been living in a hotel since he was charged and his barrister asked for a change of bail conditions to allow him to live at home under a 24-hour curfew because he could not afford to keep paying for a room .  it is thought dutton lives continue on monday when a bail decision will be made .  a trial date has been set for august 11 and is expected to last between four and five days .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here  it looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? click here to learn more .  so we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . how do i turn off my ad-blocker ?