Banksy, Elbow and Idris Elba stand together with Syria in a moving ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/banksy-elbow-and-idris-elba-stand-together-with-syria-in-a-moving-video-tribute-9189210.html

Banksy , Elbow and Idris Elba stand together with Syria in a moving video tribute  Banksy has recreated one of his most famous artworks for the #WithSyria campaign www.withsyria.com  An evocative YouTube video featuring Banksy , Idris Elba and alternative rock band Elbow has been released as part of a global vigil to mark the third anniversary of the crisis in Syria .  The charity video tribute , which is just over a minute-and-a-half long , brings one of graffiti artist Banksy 's most iconic stencils to life - set against a haunting backdrop of heartbreak and bloodshed .  His girl with a heart balloonartwork , which he has recreated for the #WithSyria campaign , is reworked in the guise of a young Syrian refugee .  She holds on to the balloon as it rises over the civil war-torn country , passing buildings destroyed by bombs and children kneeling next to the bodies of the dead .  As she ascends , she is joined by other children and adults , each holding on to a red balloon . British actor Idirs stand with Syria " .  To the stirring sounds of Elbow 's recently-released The Take Off and Landing of Everything ' , he says : " On March 15 , 2014 , the world will wake up to the third anniversary of the bloody conflict in Syria .  " Will we let the people of Syria lose another year to bloodshed and suffering ? Will you stand with Syria ? "  It ends by directing viewers to a charity website which features the video and asks its supporters to use the social media hashtag #WithSyria on Twitter and Instagram to show solidarity with those caught up in the conflict .  The campaign will launch in 35 countries as the third anniversary approaches .  Organisers say they hope to amass an " unprecedented popular movement " and are calling on political leaders to sign up to a pledge to do " everything they can " to make this the last anniversary marked by bloodshed .  The campaign video will be backed by the global release of ' With Syria ' balloons by children around the world iconic buildings and messages of solidarity from celebrities .