Mayor's annual civic awards honour a host of Islington's local heroes
http://www.islingtongazette.co.uk/news/mayor_s_annual_civic_awards_honour_a_host_of_islington_s_local_heroes_1_3429993

a couple who helped stop a machete-wielding maniac 's murderous rampage and a wheelchair-bound woman whose tenacity helped improve the lives of thousands of disabled people across the country were some of those celebrated at a glittering ceremony on tuesday .  the annual mayor 's civic awards -- held in partnership with the islington gazette -- at the islington assembly hall , in upper street , recognised the people who go out of their way to enrich the lives of their fellow islingtonians .  others honoured on the night included a woman who has looked after literally hundreds of young people during her three decades as a foster career , a group of dj 's who run club nights for people with disabilities and a shopkeeper who battled breast cancer and raised ? 10,000 for others with the same disease .  respect  meanwhile an award presented in memory of ben kinsella , who was stabbed to death in holloway in 2008 , was presented to a 16-year-old girl who dedicates her spare time to helping disabled people .  debbie kinsella , ben year of this award and as a family this means so much to us .  " it shows us the love and respect in the community there was for ben .  " it does n't get easier but it does bring comfort to know there is now a youth council in islington and youngsters doing positive things and work in the borough . "  " so many people do such great work for the community and this event always reminds you just how strong our community is . "  presenting the awards , gazette reporter jon dean said : " as journalists we see all manner of different stories come across our desks -- but it 's rare to see a collection to tales as moving or inspiring as these .  " islington really is the whole world captured in a borough -- people from all walks of and all kinds of backgrounds live cheek by jowl , mainly in harmony .  " these awards not only recognise that diversity , but how islington 's many and varied citizens are prepared to put themselves on currently have javascript disabled , functionality will be limited  mayoral awards 2014  beryl windsor has been chief organiser of the annual angel canal festival for the last 16 years . beryl took over with sasha mears in 1999 and the festival has now grown to a point where almost 100 volunteers take part in the running of islingtons village fete . almost 6,000 people visit nearly 100 stalls and enjoy live music , great food and activities for kids . beryl said : we love organising the festival its very rewarding to be a part in such a great family event . we get people coming along now with their children who attended when they were kids themselves .  an elderly woman who has spent the last 15 years giving up her own time to help youngsters learn how to read and write was given a mayors civic award . eileen withrington , 89 , has been going to st jude and st pauls primary school , in kingsbury road , newington green , twice a week from her home in essex . as well as teaching small help sew costumes for school plays or make christmas decorations . she said : i am overwhelmed , i cant believe it . i feel so joyous to have woe . the staff and children at the school are all so wonderful , i couldnt have done it for so long if they werent . it still feels like a dream to get the award .  all the winners of the mayor of islington 's civc awards 2014 with councillor barry edwards .  volunteering to teach residents the arts of cooking and sewing won judith paris one of the prestigious awards . she has devoted the last three years to developing social enterprises and local projects to pass on skills in upcycling unwanted ladies clothing and baking . the community stalwart also runs successful youth engagement projects and has helped ex-offenders recognise their personal value in society .  a pioneering pensioner who tirelessly toils to improve his neighbourhood and the lives of its residents was handed a gong . leo chapman , a retired australian journalist who came to islington when posted to his papers london bureau , including opening of a secret garden and a canal side path for the benefit of all , to standing up for the rights of local shopkeepers . perhaps his most notable achievement was to make the famous honourable artillery barracks , in city road , open to school children for the first time in 400 years . mr chapman said : i was quite surprised , but very pleased to win its a great honour . i do nt know why i get involved with all this stuff . i have a good knowledge of public affairs and it keeps me active .  a woman who has dedicated her life to welcoming hundreds of vulnerable children into her family with open arms received some richly deserved recognition . lucy dick has been a foster carer for almost 40 years and a mother to uncountable numbers of foster children , as well as three of her own . police and social workers would bring youngsters with little or no notice sometimes in the middle of the night and her mantra was always the same : this is your home for as two of her foster children and continues to look after the needy , nowadays in the form of vulnerable adults . for the whole time has asked for nothing more than basic expenses . she said : its lovely , im so happy . ive had such a great time looking after the children and i do nt regret a thing . people never believe me , but when i was 10 i had a vision outside my convent school that i would look after lots and lots of children but none of them would be my own . "  a betrothed holloway couple were recognised for their heroics in the face of a vicious samurai sword attack on christmas eve 2012 . marc khachfe , 38 , and kate oshaughnessy , 35 , were on the way to the shop buy snacks when they came across a vicious attack on an italian student who was stabbed and slashed by a dangerous maniac on a rampage . kate , who volunteered with st johns ambulance for two years , sprung in to action , getting the victims friends to call and comforted her . marc followed the attacker for almost half an hour , putting his own life in danger , allowing the police to track down and arrest him . the assailant was found to have knives , two swords , hammers , a crossbow and a gas mask in his bag . police said it is likely he would have gone on to kill if he had not been stopped . marc said : its brought us closer together and we would definitely do it again you cant just stand by and watch when something like that happens .  a breast cancer survivor was recognised for her bold efforts in raising thousands for those suffering at the hands of the same disease . michelle lovell , who runs gift shop to be established and mrs lovells greengrocers in highbury barn , has generated ? 10,000 for cancer charities through her annual event paint highbury pink every october and is now in its fifth year . she also has a long standing reputation for supporting local schools , nurseries , sheltered housing schemes , nursing homes and churches . who nominated mrs lovell , said she was a fine example of a community-minded business owner . who gives back to the community .  the ben kinsella award , which was handed out for the fourth year since 16-year-old ben was stabbed to death in islington , went to r ? is ? n n ? chionna , who volunteers at richard cloudesley school sports club . r ? is ? n , 16 , whose older sister kate attended the school , has helped out with the activities for children with special needs for the last three years and was described by the schools headteacher anne corbett as a brilliant role model who is confident , kind , mature and modest . she is currently studying her gcses and hopes to go on to study medicine and continue working with people with special needs . r ? is ? n said : i was really honoured to win the award and it was a nice surprise because i did nt know i had been nominated .  a woman with a degenerative condition that keeps her in a wheelchair one of the highest courts in the land . val garnham , 65 , who suffers from spinal muscular atrophy , tackled the government head on when the way her care was delivered was threatened . she took her case to the high court , and while she initially lost her case , the law was changed while she was waiting for an appeal meaning ms garnham and thousands of other disabled people across the nation have more say in how they are looked after . she said : the award was totally unexpected but very nice indeed . it was good the be able to push for this and hopefully i have helped a few other people along the way . the high court was a struggle it wasnt wheelchair accessible . they were pretty embarrassed when i pointed it out .  the wild bunch , a group of djs and mcs that has been throwing club nights for people with learning difficulties for 17 years , were the stars of the ceremony . all 12 committee members , who have learning difficulties themselves , were honoured by the campaigning they have done on a national scale . the group have sold more than 16,000 tickets to their events over the years and regularly have more than 250 people at their club nights . dj loydie ranks , 32 , said : it means a lot to us to win this award , we like reaching out to people and enjoy what we do . the group thanked the elfrida society who have supported them from the beginning and invited everyone to their next club night at electrowerkz , torrens street , on april 23 .  for most dogs , a cv that includes being made an honorary member of the metropolitan police force , winning the next dog model and starring in a hollywood blockbuster before the age of three would be quite the achievement .  following a challenging year with serious youth violence and the three tragic deaths of young people , det ch supt catherine roper , borough commander of islington , makes a direct plea to young people to stop carrying knives .  here 's your chance to win an amazing 15 inch myoffers competition . with its brushed aluminium casing , even at first glance the macbook looks incredible : sleek lines , a wealth of ports and connections and weighing just 2.56kg . once you open the lid , the macbook really comes in to its own as the laptop to be seen with .