Intel pulls-in launch of Core i7 Extreme 'Haswell-E' 5000 to Q2
http://www.kitguru.net/components/cpu/anton-shilov/intel-pulls-in-introduction-of-core-i7-extreme-haswell-e-5000-series-to-q2/

Intel Corp . has decided to speed up introduction of its next-generation microprocessors and platforms designed for enthusiasts who demand maximum performance . The new Core i7 Extreme " Haswell-E " chips along with Intel X99-based mainboards will be introduced at Computex Taipei 2014 in early June , several months before planned originally , according to sources with knowledge of Intel 's plans .  Intel 's " Haswell-E " central processing unit will be Intel 's first desktop processor to feature up to eight cores based on the Haswell micro-architecture with Hyper-Threading technology . The new chips will integrate 20MB of L3 cache , quad-channel DDR4 memory controller ( 2133MHz maximum clock-speed , up to one DIMM per channel ) , Turbo Boost 2 technology as well as 40 integrated PCI Express 3.0 lanes . The processor is made using 22nm process technology .  The new Core i7 " Haswell-E " 5000-series central processing units will be compatible with Intel X99 chipset as well as LGA2011-3 socket . The platform will be tailored for enthusiasts , so it will support very flexible tuning and overclocking x8 mode ( four graphics cards and one enthusiast-class solid-state drive in PCIe card form-factor ) , ten Serial ATA-6Gb/s ports , up to six USB 3.0 ports ( 14 USB ports in total ) , various Intel technologies like Rapid Storage , Rapid Recover and so on .  Previously it was believed that Intel will introduce the Core i7 " Haswell-E " 5000-series CPUs in the third quarter of 2014 , in August or September . However , it looks like the company decided to speed up the things quite a bit : the new high-end desktop ( HEDT ) platform from Intel will be unveiled at Computex Taipei 2013 trade-show and will reach the market shortly after that .  The launch of the Core i7 " Haswell-E " microprocessor and Intel X99 " Wellsburg " core-logic will have a major influence on the market of PC hardware . In particular , makers of motherboards will introduce all-new mainboards based on the latest chipset and feature a bunch of innovations , such as new overclocking and tuning capabilities , Thunderbolt 2.0 , 802.11ac Wi-Fi , advanced integrated audio to roll-out their DDR4 memory sticks earlier than expected . Developers of cooling systems will also likely launch their new products in mid-2014 . Finally , boutique PC makers will also have to unveil new systems featuring the new HEDT platform . Intel did not comment on the news-story .  KitGuru Says : Given that the market of PCs remain to be slow , it is surprising to see Intel pulling-in HEDT introduction by a quarter . While the new flagship Core i7-5960X " Haswell-E " microprocessor will be rather unique , it will aimed at only a fraction of the market and will hardly bring a lot of revenue to the chip giant . Perhaps , Intel is shifting its attitude towards desktops in general ?  Intel pulls-in launch of Core i7 Extreme ' Haswell-E ' 5000 to Q2 , 4.9 out of 5 based on 18 ratings  They certainly needed to move this up . Ivy Bridge-E was a massive disappointment -- 2012 's CPU technology coupled to 2011 's chipset -- and all for a premium price tag . What on Earth was Intel thinking not hand-me-downs from the high-end desktop market .  At this point , I 'm not even sure that waiting for an expensive Haswell-E system was even a good idea . Sure eight cores are impressive but what 's the cost ? And only a few types of applications will benefit -- anything an 8-core processor does noticably better will still be a waiting game for the user , less waiting , but still waiting . An now , many of those applications are starting to be implemented on the GPU with even better results .  VA:F 1.9.221171  Rating : +1 ( from 1 vote )  http : //www.tuskembedded.com AaronK  8 cores is impressive but curious to see how the high-end race plays . Working on the embedded side of things I 've noticed a slow down in the race for the top with much more of the emphasis being placed on low-power , size and weight . For embedded applications that require high-end processing like Eric states above , we 're starting to see these implemented on the GPU .  VA:F 1.9.221171  Rating : for God 's sake release it already . I have been waiting to upgrade my X58 and just trying to find a reason , and here is it . And do n't be too greedy , that 's the big part : /  Well when it comes out I 'll be upgrading my Main / Server machine from i7-2600K with 16GB DDR3 to i7-5960X Expensive MB and 32GB of 2133MHz DDR4 when it 's out . Games box already has an i7-3930K etc. so it 's fine