Two Bishops unite to praise the role of food banks in Stoke-on-Trent
http://www.stokesentinel.co.uk/Bishops-unite-praise-role-food-banks-Stoke-Trent/story-20931490-detail/story.html

The pair made the trip after being encouraged by Pope Francis and Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby to use this week to highlight the work being done by churches in the community in the build-up to Easter .  Mr Annas stressed the ever-increasing importance of foodbanks in the city .  He said : " The supply of food seems to be a pretty crucial thing for Stoke-on-Trent at the moment .  " One in five families are estimated to be living under the living wage which is very hard to manage on .  " We 're increasingly encountering people in our parishes who are really struggling so the work of foodbanks is vital . "  Figures from January to March this year show that 1,880 adults and 1,103 children have received parcels from the Stoke-on-Trent Foodbank .  Mr Annas added : " It 's also a chance to explode some myths . People who access food banks are not scroungers or people who ca n't be bothered to work -- there are a lot of people working but on very low involved with the work of foodbanks .  He said : " I do n't think anyone can afford to be unconcerned with the struggles of poor people around us , we ca n't push it all off to Government .  " All it needs is the illness of a child or an accident to the family breadwinner , and suddenly people can no longer cope with putting food on a table .  " Everyone can buy an extra can of food when they 're out shopping so they become a part of this effort and it makes a huge impact on people . "  Reverend Martin Stephens of St John 's Church in Abbey Hulton , one of the trustees of the foodbank , agreed with the bishops ' views .  He said : " Very often when people come in , they feel embarrassment and feel they should be working , but it 's just got to that point where they can not cope .  " That 's why it 's such a privilege to help and show them there 's no judgement . want people to leave with food but with a bit more hope and dignity and knowing that someone cares . "  To make a donation or inquire about volunteering at the Stoke-on-Trent Food Bank , call 01782 281818.