Forces widows face 'moral penalty' of lost pensions
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-26955309

Forces widows face ' moral penalty ' of lost pensions  Image caption The National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire honours members of the armed forces killed on duty . Currently , spouses of those who die off duty lose pension benefits if they remarry or cohabit with a new partner .  Campaigners have called on ministers to change rules that mean 80 service widows a year have their pensions taken away .  Currently , if a member of the armed forces dies while off duty , the Ministry of Defence makes their widow give up their spouse 's pension if they remarry or cohabit .  The rule has been in place since 1973 .  BBC News website readers have been sharing their views on the issue .  Patricia Crabtree , Sleaford , Lincolnshire  Image caption Patricia Crabtree with her first husband , Warrant Officer GB Wallis , and with her second husband , Peter Crabtree . She says : " I think the changes would be one of the best things to happen . "  My first husband was Warrant over 30 years and died in April 1992 .  I was left with four teenage sons to bring up and initially I was awarded the basic RAF pension .  I spoke to a member of the British Legion telling them that my husband had died as a result of a misdiagnosis of cancer when he left the service .  He took premature voluntary release after returning home .  The British Legion took up my case with the MoD and I was subsequently awarded a war widow 's pension .  I remarried in 1999 and had not realised that I would lose my pension . So when the MoD contacted me to return the pension payments made since my remarriage it caused me and my new husband some financial stress .  I now only get about ? 300 per month pension at the age of 71 .  I think the changes would be one of the best things to happen .  They would be recognition of all the work that ex-servicemen and their wives do . Having a spouse in the forces means a 30 years of his life to service for his country and it seems rather bad that in return all his family gets is ? 300 per month .  Image caption Malcolm Halliwell with his wife , Sheila : " I always believed that there would be something to look after my wife when I die . "  Malcolm Halliwell , Ramsey , Cambridgeshire  I served 40 years in the RAF and , until I read this article , I did not know that my wife could end up in this situation were anything to happen to me .  I feel genuinely aggrieved that one of the real benefits of my lifetime of service - my pension - does not have the survivor benefits that I had expected .  The fact that my wife might have to face the choice between losing her financial independence or loneliness in later life is shocking .  I left the RAF in 2008 and had served since I was a boy apprentice in 1969 , so I 'd built up the maximum possible pension entitlement .  I always believed when I die .  What a terrible choice to have to make , between money or a new loving relationship - it is mean and archaic of the MoD .  It is a moral penalty and it needs to be addressed .  I hope that the government listens to this lobby .  Amanda Oliver , Worcester  Image caption Amanda Oliver : " How unfair to pay into a scheme for 26 years and then have to make a choice between a secure financial future or a life as a complete family in a loving relationship . "  Both my husband and I served in the British Army , he for 26 years . I left after nine years to start a new career and have children .  My husband retired in about 1995 after being commissioned from the ranks in a very successful career .  In 2001 he died at the age of 49 from a brain tumour , just six months after diagnosis . Our two daughters were six and 11 and I was just 40 years old .  Fortunately we very senior position at work and take some time out to dedicate to the children .  Two years later I met my now husband of 10 years and , after a year of dating , we moved in together .  This meant that I lost both my army and government pension , and my new husband had to take on the brunt of our finances while I looked for a new job and returned to the workplace .  He had a family from a previous relationship , so until I could find work he was supporting his family and mine .  During the six months of my husband 's terminal illness , one thing that helped through the madness was the knowledge that the 26 years of paying into his pension would ensure our financial security once he had died .  How unfair to pay into a scheme for 26 years and then have to make a choice between a secure financial future or a life as a complete family in a loving relationship .  When I informed the pension personnel of my changed state was true love as I was giving up a lot of money , around ? 1,500 to ? 2,000 per month .  I said then that I was sure I was making the right choice , but why have that choice forced on me ?