Boston air traffic controller reveals moment he learned of 9/11 attacks
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2614894/I-just-talking-pilots-theyre-dead-Boston-air-traffic-controller-reveals-horrifying-moment-learned-9-11-attacks.html

RELATED ARTICLES  Share this article  Share  He said he was not controlling the planes at the time of the hijacking .  Writing under the Reddit username of atcamaa , he goes on to share his experience of that particular day .  He explains how one of the controllers he worked with , who had been watching TV in the break-room , went into the Air Traffic Control room to tell others how an aircraft had flown into one of the World Trade Center buildings  The air traffic controller told Reddit he had been working at Boston Logan Airport on September 11 , 2001 , and had directed both American Airlines 11 and United Airlines 175 before they were hijacked  He goes on to write : ' Between working the airplanes the controllers on duty discussed how an aircraft could hit a tall building during very VFR ( good weather ) conditions .  ' Five or so minutes later the supervisor said that Boston Center ( high altitude ATC facility ) had a suspected hijacked aircraft . Two or three also had a suspected hijacked aircraft .  ' At that time we put it together what was happening . Our supervisor called the control tower to discuss stopping all departures . Before he hung up the phone , the same controller from before came in to report another aircraft hit the other tower .  ' " My god . I was just talking to those pilots , pilots I may have probably spoken to hundreds of times over the course of my career , and now they 're dead " '  - Reddit user atcamaa  ' Within seconds the FAA Command Center ordered all departures stopped and for every airborne aircraft in the US to be vectored to the nearest suitable airport and landed .  ' For the next 30 minutes we worked frantically and through the confusion to line up arrivals to airports in our jurisdiction ( mostly Boston , Logan Airport ) . And then , something I 've never seen in all my years of experience , radar scopes with no aircraft . '  MailOnline last week reported that a film due criticised by a prominent Muslim cleric who said it will ' greatly offend ' Islam .  Sheik Mostafa Elazabawy , the imam of Masjid Manhattan , said the seven-minute documentary , which is designed to explain to visitors the historical roots of the terrorist attacks , may confuse viewers about the difference between Al Qaeda and Muslims .  The film , The Rise of Al Qaeda , refers to the terrorists as Islamists who viewed their mission as a jihad .  A film due to be screened at the 9/11 Memorial Museum has been criticised by a prominent Muslim cleric who said it will ' greatly offend ' Islam  Narrated by NBC news anchor Brian Williams , the film was shown to an interfaith advisory panel , which included Elazabawy .  The panel asked for changes , but the museum declined and Elazabawy immediately resigned in March . He has written a letter to the museum 's director : ' The screening of this film in its present state would greatly offend our local Muslim believers as well as any foreign Muslim visitor to the museum the difference between Al Qaeda and Muslims may come away with a prejudiced view of Islam , leading to antagonism and even confrontation toward Muslim believers near the site ' Elazabawy wrote in his letter obtained by The New York Times .  In some scenes of the film the translations are voiced over by someone with a foreign accent - a decision the interfaith group bill as sensationalist .  Reverend Ruth Yoder Wenger , of New York Disaster Interfaith Services told CNN : ' We 're concerned that the way this story is told equates Muslims in general with al Qaeda , and that people coming away from viewing the video will make that same association in their minds . '  But museum officials are standing by the film which focuses on a 15-year span between Al Qaeda 's founding during the Soviet-Afghan War and the 9/11 attacks .  ' We have a very heavy responsibility to be true to the facts , to be objective , and in no way smear an entire religion when we are talking about a terrorist group , ' Joseph Daniels museum , told The New York Times .  Michael Frazier , a spokesman for the museum , said great efforts had been made to distinguish the terrorists from mainstream Muslims in the film which will be shown to visitors in a part of the museum next to a gallery with photographs of the 19 men who hijacked four planes .