How our love of debit cards is killing off cash: Just œ17.99 in œ100 is ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2615460/How-love-debit-cards-killing-cash-Just-17-99-100-spent-old-way.html

virtual : cash is being used less and less and banks keep developing new , easy ways of using debit cards  cash is being killed off by the banks as they push customers to switch to cards , automated payments and a new service which is linked to mobile phone numbers .  notes and coins now account for only ? 17.99 of every ? 100 spent , down by ? 3.03 on a year ago , according to the halifax .  the banks are keen to push for the demise of cash and cheques because these are much more expensive for them to transport , handle , count and process than electronic payments .  from today they will also put further pressure on cash with the launch of a service that allows quick electronic payments to be made using mobile phone numbers linked to current accounts .  called paym , it is backed by all the high street banks and initially will be available to 30million people before being extended to nine out of ten accounts by the end of the year by customers , because many do not trust banks to ensure the electronic payments system is reliable and secure .  there have been a number of instances in recent years of customers being locked out of their bank accounts and blocked from using cards at tills by serious bank it failures .  banks and stores have also made it increasingly difficult for customers to use cheques , banning them from many petrol stations and supermarkets , while energy firms impose charges on those who pay using cheques .  the halifax figures show debit cards account for ? 28.87 in every ? 100 of spending , direct debits for ? 19.90 , cash for ? 17.99 , so-called ' faster payments ' , which covers internet and smartphone transactions , for ? 12.81 , cheques ? 11.28 , standing orders ? 7.82 and other bill payments at ? 1.34 .  the paym service -- pronounced ' pay em ' -- has been described as the first industry-wide collaboration in the uk which could potentially link up every bank account with a mobile number .  it will allow recipient 's phone number rather than a bank account number and sort code .  the system will be integrated into customers ' existing mobile banking apps .  generally , users will be able to transfer up to ? 250 a day . those who want to receive money will need to register their mobile number with a current account .  the payments council , which is overseeing the initiative , said : ' paying someone back just got easier for millions of people . '  however , research by consumer intelligence shows half the population -- 47 per cent -- have no intention of using it .  the majority of these -- 71 per cent -- had concerns about security , while 39 per cent were worried what would happen if their phone were stolen and 32 per cent had fears about paying the wrong person .  david black of consumer intelligence said : ' it 's clear the banking industry has a job to do to educate customers that mobile payments are a safe and consumer-friendly development . '  barclays already operates a another scheme , called zapp , is set for launch this autumn , while paypal , the internet payment specialist owned by ebay , has its own system .  top deals includehalifax 's reward accountpromising new customers ? 100 to switch and ? 5 per month if they stay in credit .  first directpays ? 100 to new customers who switch to its first account . on top of that , the bank is so confident in its customer service that it will give you a further ? 100 if you chose to close the account within the first 12 months .  the co-op , too , has introduced a ? 100 cash incentive for new customers . it will also donate ? 25 to charity on your behalf .  if you switch your main current account to one of the post office 's standard , packaged or control current accounts the bank will give you a ? 100 gift card .  lloyds bank is tempting desperate savers with its club lloyds current account - offering up to 4 per cent for balances between ? 4,000 in at least ? 1,500 .  tsb has also recently launched an interest-paying , the plus account pays 5 per cent on balances of up to ? 2,000 and only requires a minimum monthly deposit of ? 500 .  santander 's 123 current account , on the other hand , pays interest on in-credit balances - 1 per cent on balances between ? 1,000 and ? 2,000 , 2 per cent between ? 2,000 and ? 3,000 and 3 per cent on balances between ? 3,000 and ? 20,000 .  nationwide flexdirectoffers to pay 5 per cent interest on balances up to ? 2,500 for the first year , while itsflexaccountdelivers free travel insurance . it also operates a refer a friend scheme , whereby both parties will receive ? 50 if an existing customers successfully recommends friends or family to the bank . by amy andrew