Fast Company wins US Magazine of The Year ; New Yorker lifts four ...
http://www.thedrum.com/news/2014/05/02/fast-company-wins-magazine-year-award-new-york

Latest Videos  Fast Company wins US Magazine of The Year ; New Yorker lifts four awards  Fast Company was named magazine of the year at the annual National Magazine Awards in New York last night- beating The Atlantic , Bon Appetit , Esquire and New York magazines ..  The awards - known as the Ellies for the Alexander Calder elephant sculptures which are the trophies - are presented by the American Society of Editors in association with the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism .  The award to Fast Company aims to honour brands excelling in both print and digital media .  The New Yorker -- which won nothing last year took home the most trophies this year , with four Ellies : for feature writing , fiction , essays and criticism , and columns and commentary .  Modern Farmer won its first Ellie , for magazine section . The quarterly title , launched last March covers both farmers and the farm-to-table movement .  Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter , who also co-founded Spy magazine , was given the Magazine week , Boston magazine won cover of the year for its May issue with running shoes shaped into a heart .  Overall , the night belonged to ink-on-paper magazines , said Adage , " with legacy titles beating online publications like Slate , Pitchfork , The Atavist , The Daily Beast and The Verge that have joined the competition in recent years . "  New York magazine , winner of last year 's magazine of the year , earned best website .  Bon Appetit , earned an Ellie for photography . W magazine won in the feature photography category for the second year this time for Tim Walker 's " Stranger Than Paradise . "  The New York Times Magazine won in the reporting category for " The Dream Boat . "  Time won in the public interest category for Steven Brill 's cover story " Bitter Pill : Why Medical Bills Are Killing Us . "  The " Hair Extravaganza ! " in O , The Oprah Magazine 's September issue -- which shows Oprah Winfrey with a large afro -- won in the in the personal service category for " Your Cosmo Guide to Contraception . "  Bloomberg Businessweek 's " Five Years from the Brink , " a retrospective on the financial crisis , won for single-topic issue .  Wired magazine , which went into the night with six nominations , left empty handed . GQ and Harper 's magazine , each with four nominations , were also shut out .