Rodrigo y Gabriela: 'We've always done exactly the opposite of ...
http://www.standard.co.uk/goingout/music/rodrigo-y-gabriela-we-ve-always-done-exactly-the-opposite-of-everyone-else-9316140.html

Has there ever been a band less likely to be wildly popular than Rodrigo y Gabriela , who are about to play two nights at the Albert Hall and have a London arena date in the offing ? The hit parade is not exactly littered with Mexican instrumental acoustic duos who delight in energetically plucked tributes to historical figures including Fyodor Dostoyevsky , Norwegian polar explorer Fridtjof Nansen and Eleanor of Acquitane . But then , who knows what direction the next Justin Bieber album will take ?  This is specialist stuff , surely , so what are the pair doing so right ? " It is surprising , " admits Rodrigo Sanchez , 40 , who is now considered such a major figure in Mexican culture that he and Gabriela Quintero played a White House concert at a meeting between Barack Obama and the last Mexican President , Felipe Calder ? n . Obama told them he had their music on his iPod ; Calder ? n did n't know who they were . " It 's a different proposal but people were ready to  " I had a very clear idea in my head : I wo n't be something that I 'm not , " adds Quintero , also 40 , in a singsong voice that leaves no doubt that English is not her first language . " I ca n't write a friendly radio song . That requires a certain talent . We are not gon na try to be something else -- we are this . "  Theirs would certainly be a tough blueprint for copycats to follow . Having begun their music career in the early Nineties in a heavy metal band , Tierra Acida ( " Acid Land " ) , in Mexico City , they moved to Dublin at the start of the last decade to busk as a duo . They started covering hard rock songs in a raw Latin style , including Led Zeppelin 's Stairway to Heaven and Metallica 's Orion , both of which appeared on their first proper album , a self-titled release from 2006 . It was a number one in Ireland , and their popularity swelled to other countries from snaking around each other , often thumping the body of their instruments for percussion . And that 's it . No singing , no drums , bass or electric instruments . " We 've always done exactly the opposite of everyone else , " says Quintero . If it sounds simple , you need to see them live , where fingers blur , feet stamp and the pace and intricacy of their work is almost unfathomable . At their big concerts there are no dancing girls , costume changes or fireworks -- the real special effects are the cameras that capture their fiery fingerwork in extreme close-up .  They 've become a big-time band through word of mouth , not media attention . " We 're not a radio band , but we have played a lot . We develop fanbases just by playing and playing , " says Sanchez . He 's an earnest , smiley guy who 's long since tidied his heavy metal hairdo , a passionate vegan ( as is Quintero ) who runs for fun and swaps recipe tips with his mate , the American n't big in Latin countries , which presumably have a wider choice when it comes to flamenco-style guitar sounds , these days Sanchez lives in Barcelona and Quintero is based in Ixtapa on Mexico 's west coast . They were a couple but split up two years ago . Thankfully , the working relationship has continued . " We have a really good relationship . Much better actually , " says Sanchez .  " I do n't know how we managed to do it , " says Quintero of touring as romantic as well as musical partners . " We fought all the time . But music was one of those things that we could agree on . "  United about their musical direction , they 've managed to resist any thoughts of adding lyrics or dance beats to their potent but minimal mix . So they 've had to find different ways of progressing . Their last album , 2012 's Area 52 , saw them revisiting their earlier songs with a Cuban orchestra . They also worked with Hans Zimmer on the soundtrack to the fourth Pirates they 've given their songs on this week 's new album , 9 Dead Alive , some heavyweight subject matter , dedicating them to eight figures they deem to be of historical importance -- four men , four women . The ninth song , Torito , is named after a Mexican cocktail .  You may not hear immediately what the Chilean poet Gabriela Mistral has to do with the haunting notes of Megalopolis , or why explorer Fridtjof Nansen is the subject of Fram 's rapidfire strumming . Rodrigo y Gabriela chose their subjects after the songs were recorded , so they 're not directly related to the music , but it 's enough for the duo that you might look them up afterwards and learn something about eight significant lives .  " It 's just part of what we do as part of our expression . We want to make it speak to us on a personal level . Particularly in my own imagination , the music we play is very visual . When I 'm playing I have all these images , " says Quintero in an it did n't have a subject , it would just be music . But thankfully for those who have n't read any Dostoyevsky , it 's very good music indeed .  The strangest full houses in town  Rodrigo y Gabriela are far from the only musical oddities selling out massive shows . Elvis was obviously a major concert draw for decades but that was when he was alive . Now the band is real but the star is a projection , singing and bantering in footage lifted from televised concerts . If you 're used to watching the big screen from the back of an arena , it feels surprisingly normal .  You 'll never hear this Boston-formed band 's uncool mix of prog and metal on the radio , yet they played Wembley Arena two months ago and are high on the bill at the Sonisphere rock festival this summer . Solo piles upon solo in sets of up to three-and-a-half hours .  Never mind the songs in the pop charts , what a large number of concert goers apparently want to hear is the soundtrack themes from games old and new such as Final Fantasy , The Legend of Zelda and Halo , and even accompanies audience members having a go at some arcade classics on stage .  If you got to the end of the year thinking , " Hey , how come I have n't been to more Belgian rap shows ? " , here 's your chance . Stromae , aka Paul Van Haver from Brussels , had a hit across Europe with Alors on danse in 2010 , leading to work with Kanye West and will.i.am . Now he 's written Belgium 's World Cup song and is playing this 5,000-capacity venue .  One of the biggest-selling albums of all time is also one of the weirdest , a two-disc orchestral prog take on HG Wells 's classic sci-fi tale . In what 's billed as its last arena tour , it will feature an unlikely cast in Jason Donovan , Brian McFadden from Westlife , X Factor alumni Shayne Ward and Joseph Whelan and a holographic Liam Neeson.