Guinea pig to become father to 400 after breaking into female ...
http://www.itv.com/news/2014-06-06/guinea-pig-to-become-father-to-400-after-breaking-into-female-enclosure/

advertisement  guinea pig to become father to 400 after breaking into female enclosure  randy escaped his male only enclosure at hatton adventure world in warwick and broke into the female-only area . photo : swns  staff at hatton country world in warwickshire could n't understand why they suddenly had 100 pregnant guinea pigs on their hands - until they released one of the male rodents had managed to escape his enclosure and infiltrate the female-only enclosure .  they noticed that the exhausted father-to-be , now nicknamed randy , had lost a little weight , but did not realise why until they discovered he was actually a male rodent being kept busy in the wrong pen .  randy , centre , pictured alongside some of the female guinea pigs he mated with credit : swns  the animal park , which already has 300 male and female guinea pigs , is now readying itself for a population boom in the next few weeks .  manager richard craddock said : " one of our male guinea pigs managed to find his way into the looks of it .  " we suspect a child may have placed him back in the wrong pen by accident after stroking him or randy may have somehow broken out of his enclosure to get to the females . "  " we believe that the newly-named randy could have impregnated up to 100 female guinea pigs , which have litters of about four , so if you do the maths we could be expecting quite a baby boom .  randy is going to be seeing many more of these in the coming weeks . credit : swns  " we do n't know how long randy was in the female enclosure but it could have been several weeks which would have given him time to go round the entire female population .  " staff did comment he looked a little thinner than before . he has now re-joined his male friends , clearly he 's got a lot of bragging to do . "  staff are now looking to build an extension to the guinea pig farm to accommodate randy 's huge brood .