Royal Bank of Scotland chief receives shares worth almost œ1.5m
http://www.theguardian.com/business/2014/jun/06/royal-bank-scotland-rbs-ross-mcewan-shares

Ross McEwan , chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland , received shares on Friday worth almost ? 1.5m in the bailed-out bank .  The New Zealander was handed the shares as part of a signing-on deal when he was first hired from Commonwealth Bank of Australia to run the retail operations of the 81% taxpayer-owned institution in September 2012 . He was promoted to chief executive last October after Stephen Hester quit and sold just under half of the 432,000 shares which were released to him to meet his tax liabilities .  In a disclosure to the stock exchange , RBS also revealed that three members of the executive team assembled by McEwan had also received shares under previous share bonus schemes worth just over ? 1m . The three are Rory Cullinan , head of the new mini-bad bank inside RBS , Alison Rose , head of its commercial and private banking division , and Donald Workman , head of what is left of the investment bank . Their pay deals are being disclosed because they have been put in charge of new number of shares of the three , worth just over ? 600,000 . They are the first instalment of a bonus he received in March he is one of only a handful of top RBS managers to be handed bonuses for 2013 .  The latest set of shares being released to McEwan were part of a ? 3m signing-on deal under which he is still due to receive shares , with the final payment due next year . RBS said he would only receive shares to meet his tax liabilities .  The latest revelations about pay come as RBS prepares to hold its annual meeting later this month . It has already been forced to withdraw a plan to pay bonuses twice the size of salaries because of opposition from the Treasury . This means the bank will be restricted to paying bonuses of 100% of annual pay as imposed by the EU cap on bonuses .  Even so , McEwan will be handed ? 1m a year in " allowances " -- effectively doubling his salary -- in a reaction to the bonus cap .