Dido Belle: Britain's first black aristocrat
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/10863078/Dido-Belle-Britains-first-black-aristocrat.html

dido elizabeth belle , the illegitimate , mixed race daughter of an 18th-century naval captain and subject of a new film , was a lady like no other , discovers nisha lilia diu  the amazing thing about dido elizabeth belle is not that she was mixed-race . who knows how many white men 's children were born to black slave women in the 18th century ? it 's not even that her father was a wealthy english aristocrat -- there were plenty of titled captains tearing around the caribbean at that time , capturing french and dutch schooners during the seven years ' war and making off with their sugar , coffee and other ( often human ) cargo . the extraordinary thing about dido belle is that her father , a 24-year-old navy officer called john lindsay , took her home to england and asked his extended family to raise her . and they did . they did it in some style , too .  belle grew up in kenwood house in north london . it was the palatial weekend retreat of lindsay 's landscaped gardens with a view of st paul 's cathedral six miles away . mansfield was lord chief justice , and he made a number of landmark rulings on slavery that were among britain 's first steps towards abolition . did belle 's presence in his home have anything to do with it ? plenty of his contemporaries thought so , and they did n't admire him for it .  " dido was very , very privileged , " says william murray , a descendant of the earl and the son of the heir apparent . " she was in the top 5 per cent , perhaps the top 1 per cent , in terms of how she lived , her allowance , her dress , her education . " but belle 's position was far from clear-cut .  at kenwood , says murray , " she was treated like the rest of the family -- when it was just the family . where it got awkward is when they had guests in , " he says . the black , illegitimate daughter of a nobleman occupied a peculiar serving classes but too different to be wholly welcome in high society . when the mansfields were entertaining , belle did n't eat with their guests .  all of this makes belle , the forthcoming film about dido 's life from the bafta-winning director amma asante , one of the most unusual costume dramas to hit the big screen . the fabulous gowns , eligible young men and barely suppressed class anxieties of london 's social " season " are all present and correct . but other , rarely registered aspects of jane austen 's england are at the centre of the frame : the uncomfortable knowledge of where the fragrant leaves and sculpted sugar loaves at the ladies ' tea parties have come from ; and , in belle ( played by gugu mbatha-raw , who was ophelia opposite jude law 's hamlet at the donmar warehouse in 2009 ) , the evidence of what their men got up to when they were far away at sea or on the plantations .  related articles  we tend to think of mixed-race children as a modern phenomenon , but roman times . there were around 10,000 black people in the city , and many more of mixed parentage by the time belle was born in 1761 . lindsay seems to have met belle 's mother , a slave named maria , on a captured ship in the west indies . he was a young bachelor , but already much-feted by the newspapers back home for his exploits .  their story is recounted in the diaries of thomas hutchinson , a former governor of massachusetts who attended a dinner party at kenwood in august 1779 . he met belle during his visit , who was about 18 at the time . " a black came in after dinner and sat with the ladies , " he writes , " and after coffee , walked with the company in the gardens , one of the young ladies having her arm within the other . she had a very high cap and her wool was much frizzled in her neck , but not enough to answer the large curls now in fashion . she is neither handsome nor genteel -- pert enough he continues , " but my lord mentioned it again . sir john lindsay having taken her mother prisoner in a spanish vessel , brought her to england where she was delivered of this girl , and which was taken care of by lord m. , and has been educated by his family . he calls her dido , which i suppose is all the name she has .  " he knows he has been reproached for showing fondness for her , " hutchinson observes , going on to recall one of mansfield 's cases . " a few years ago there was a cause before his lordship brought by a black for recovery of his liberty . a jamaica planter , being asked what judgment his lordship would give answered ' no doubt ... he will be set free , for lord mansfield keeps a black in his house which governs him and the whole family . ' "  the case was that of james somerset . a slave who had been brought to england , somerset escaped , was caught and then forced onto a ship bound argued he could do with him as he pleased . but witnesses were shocked by somerset 's violent capture and commentators horrified that a man 's freedom could be denied on english soil . mansfield ( played in the film by tom wilkinson ) set him free , judging that colony slave laws were not binding in england . " the state of slavery is so odious that nothing can be suffered to support it , " he said .  lord mansfield is played by tom wilkinson  dido belle was n't the only child in the mansfields ' care . they were also bringing up elizabeth murray , the daughter of their nephew lord stormont , whose wife had died when elizabeth was six . the two girls appear in a double portrait that once hung at kenwood and is now at scone palace , lord mansfield 's ancestral home in scotland . it was this portrait that piqued the curiosity of misan sagay , belle 's scriptwriter , and started the decade-long process of getting the film made . " i was amazed to see this black girl  when the painting was later shown to amma asante she had a similar reaction . " for centuries , black people were basically accessories in paintings , there to express the status of the white people , " says asante . " we were never looking out at the painter but up in awe at the white protagonist . i knew this was something very different . " esther chadwick , a member of the history of art department at yale university , agrees . " what 's remarkable is that dido is painted at the same height as elizabeth murray , and elizabeth murray is shown reaching out to her . but what 's most unusual is her direct gaze . "  kenwood 's accounts show belle was on an almost-equal footing with elizabeth . she had a four-poster bed draped in chintz , mahogany furniture in her rooms and costly remedies , purchased when she was ill . she received an allowance of ? 30 a year -- twice the annual salary of the first coachman , but far less than elizabeth 's ? 100 .  she seems to have enjoyed a close relationship with her adoptive guardian . hutchinson recollects that " she was called upon by my lord every minute for this thing and that , and shewed the greatest attention to everything he said " . mansfield sometimes dictated letters to belle ( who had beautiful handwriting ) so it 's entirely possible she would have been aware of his cases . one of these was the zong insurance claim , which forms the centrepiece of the film .  in 1781 , a slave ship bound for jamaica threw 132 slaves overboard . the ship 's owners claimed the vessel had run out of water and the crew had to sacrifice some slaves to save the 300 others on board . now , they wanted their insurers to pay up for the lost " cargo " . the insurance company rejected the claim and it found its way to lord mansfield .  " it is a very shocking case , " he wrote . it appalled english society . the legal argument hinged on whether the slaves had been killed out of become diseased during the journey - and therefore worthless - and had been murdered for the insurance payout . in the end , the owners could n't prove necessity and dropped the claim amid a storm of negative publicity . in the film , belle experiences a political awakening during the trial and becomes involved in the fight against the ship 's owners . whether or not this happened , how must she have felt -- and how must mansfield have felt -- knowing that her own mother had been a slave and that she , too , could easily have met the same fate ?  the portrait of dido belle and lady elizabeth murray is on show at scone palace , scotland  for a long time , the double portrait at scone palace was labelled with only one name : " the lady elizabeth murray " . as william murray explains , " it was only when my grandmother was taking some tourists around scone in the early nineties that one of them who had heard of dido questioned who was in this portrait . " the family stringfield , an archaeologist at the university of west florida , was simultaneously digging the site of the house of one maria belle . her work has only just become known to the murray family and to british researchers . stringfield found , among other things , a document , signed by sir john lindsay , deeding a lot in pensacola , florida , to maria in 1772 . " it was such an unusual situation , " she tells me . " you would not normally have men conveying property to an ex-slave . "  in 1764 , when dido was three , lindsay was sent to pensacola to test naval equipment . maria belle probably accompanied him and this is when dido most likely passed into the mansfields ' care . " it was not unusual for men in frontier settings to have women with them that were not their wives , " says stringfield .  once in florida , lindsay took his pick of land that had been granted to the british navy . " the british named the streets after men of importance and i . maria belle 's former house is on the corner of lindsay and mansfield streets . lindsay and maria returned to london in subsequent years and their relationship continued well into lindsay 's 1768 marriage to mary milner , an mp 's daughter . but it appears to have ended in 1774 , when maria returned to pensacola alone .  in the deed for the house , lindsay guaranteed maria her freedom , and , from stringfield 's excavations of the site , it looks like he set her up well . stringfield has found china tea pots and cups , " a beautiful decanter top " and pieces of delicate wine glass . " it was certainly a genteel life , " she says .  frontier society was relaxed , says stringfield , and maria " probably had women friends in a similar situation to herself here . " life at kenwood could n't have been more different . the mansfields would have been keenly aware of the furore dido 's presence in their home caused . in belle they 're less than delighted when lindsay turns up " says an astonished lady mansfield ( played by emily watson ) . " she is my blood , " he replies .  " so why did the first earl take her on ? " asks william murray . " i think it 's because of his own experience of being an outsider . " mansfield grew up in scotland , the fourth son of the viscount of stormont . it was a noble but impoverished line and mansfield was dispatched to london aged 12 to make his own way .  lord mansfield died in 1793 , aged 87 , and belle married five months later . he left belle an inheritance and an annuity of ? 100 for life . in his will he wrote , " i assert to dido her freedom . " mansfield 's sister ( played by penelope wilton in the film ) also left her money as did sir john lindsay . he had no children with his wife but his will mentions a second illegitimate child , john . maria belle 's son ? who knows .  little is known about -- a law student in " belle " but a steward in real life , and the son of the local reverend in hampstead . according to murray , they had known each other , at least by sight , for many years . they moved to what is now ebury street in belgravia and had three children , one of whom joined the east india company . belle died of natural causes aged 41 and was buried in the st george 's , hanover square , overspill burial ground on bayswater road . that was cleared to make way for the redevelopment of the bayswater area in the seventies . nobody 's quite sure where she is now .  ' belle ' is released on june 13 . the portrait of belle and elizabeth murray is on display at scone palace as part of ' dido -- her story ' , until october 31 ; www.scone-palace.co.uk