Three Men and a Baby, all grown up! Meet the identical twins who ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-2659184/Three-Men-Baby-grown-Meet-identical-twins-starred-1987-comedy-27-years-later.html

three men and a baby , all grown up ! meet the identical twins who starred in the 1987 comedy ... 27 years later  at the tender age of four months , lisa blair and michelle blair ontonovich starred alongside tom selleck , steve guttenberg and ted danson as the baby in three men and a baby .  appearing on the today show this morning , the identical twins - neither of whom pursued an acting career - talk about how starring in the top comedy as babies has affected their lives .  ' when we were little , it was n't a big deal to us at all , ' explained michelle , who now works in insurance . ' i think it was when we became teenagers and people started coming up to us a lot more . '  scroll down for video  child stars : at the tender age of four months , lisa blair and michelle blair ontonovich ( pictured now ) starred alongside tom selleck , steve guttenberg and ted danson as the baby in three men has any memory of playing baby mary , the girl who united three bachelors when she showed up on their doorstep , but their mom geriann looks back on the experience fondly  ' and asking us for our autograph and everything , ' chimed in her sister , who now has a career in customer service .  these days , michelle is married with a five-month-old baby of her own who looks remarkably like the sisters did in a promotional poster for the movie .  ' i was just bored at home on maternity leave and i heard about this casting call , ' she said . ' i thought it was just a scene in a movie , i had no idea it was a big major motion production . '  but just a few weeks later , she received a call from star trek actor leonard nimoy , who directed the comedy , which ended up being the highest grossing film of 1987 .  geriann was present at many of her daughters ' photo shoots , including one for a poster that was shot that tom selleck ( pictured in a scene from the movie ) had to deal with two baby bathroom accidents during filming and promotion of the film  well received : three men and a baby , which was directed by leonard nimoy , was the highest grossing movie of 1987  talent : in one scene , lisa peed right on cue when a tube that was supposed to simulate urine failed to work . ' leonard nimoy looked at me and said , " that 's what good actresses do ! " ' recalled geriann  she recalled how tom selleck was nervous as he held a diaper-less michelle during the shoot . ' he looked over at me and said , " is this safe ? " and i said , " oh , i do n't know . " and then , there she goes , sure enough ! so that was a real shock . '  and that was n't the only time the actor was on the unfortunate end of a baby bathroom accident .  during one scene of the movie , lisa like she had urinated . but when the contraption failed to work properly , she did it on her own , right on cue .