Keep William Wallace out of it says Danny Alexander
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2714372/Keep-William-Wallace-says-Danny-Alexander.html

Keep William Wallace out of it says Danny Alexander  I am a Highlander . I spent my early years on Colonsay in the Hebrides , then moved to Lochaber and went to high school in Fort William . One of the most powerful memories of this time was seeing the Commando memorial at Spean Bridge twice a day from the school bus .  This imposing monument commemorates the role played by young men from all over the UK in protecting our freedom during the Second World War .  It 's a sight I have in mind as we approach the decision next month on whether Scotland should break away from the UK and become independent .  That memorial , a tribute to the extraordinary strength of our family of nations , is something I will think of when I watch this week 's TV debate between Alex Salmond and Alistair Darling .  It 's not often you 'll see a Liberal Democrat rooting for an ex-Labour Cabinet Minister like Darling . But now , more than ever , with only a few down party political differences and stand up for the interests of Scotland -- and the UK .  Expect fireworks , rhetorical flourishes and verbal acrobatics from the Scottish First Minister .  RELATED ARTICLES  Share this article  Share  But expect the truth from Darling , nothing flamboyant -- just the clear , unvarnished facts that Scotland is better off staying inside the UK . These dry facts overwhelmingly prove that we are better together . Better in terms of being able to continue to use the pound sterling , better by being part of a larger and recovering economy , better by being part a family of nations with a place on the global stage .  By remaining part of the UK we are more financially and internationally secure and the detailed analysis shows that every man , woman and child in Scotland benefits by ? 1,400 each and every year as a result of being part of the UK family .  Much as Alex Salmond ( left ) would like it to be , it is a travesty to try to reduce this to from the heart ' for independence versus a ' stay in the UK ' vote after a sober-minded look at the facts  This is no ' head versus heart ' debate . Much as Salmond would like it to be , it is a travesty to try to reduce this to a trite William Wallace-style vote ' from the heart ' for independence versus a ' stay in the UK ' vote after a sober-minded look at the facts .  In fact , I will vote head and heart to keep Scotland and England , and the other parts of the UK , together .  Our family of nations is bound by the most extraordinary history -- and it 's that history , of more than 300 years , that makes us the family we are .  While our fellow citizens in other parts of the UK do n't have a vote , they are increasingly finding their voice on this issue .  Scottish hero William Wallace  People from across the UK tell me Scotland and our place in the UK is valued and , so many people in Scotland cherish their role in the wider UK , it tells a story -- that we are family of nations which does n't want , need , or have cause for divorce .  I 'm proud to be a Highlander , a Scot and British too .  Why , with all our shared history , with all the evidence overwhelmingly showing that we are better together , when we are part of the most successful family of nations the world has ever seen , would we want to break apart ?