Save the tiger: Learning to live with dangerous neighbours
http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/commentators/save-the-tiger-learning-to-live-with-dangerous-neighbours-9644614.html

save the tiger : learning to live with dangerous neighbours  another person is lost to the royal bengal tigers of the sundarbans mangrove forests , straddling india and bangladesh , almost every month . it is the only region in the world where humans are routinely killed by wild cats .  " two more men were killed last month -- one on the 11th of july and the other on the 26th . in both cases , they went very close to the jungle to fish and a tiger attacked and killed them , " says anil mistry , 48 , a resident of the village of bali , in the indian portion of the sundarbans . " it 's not uncommon for people to be killed on the river but more often it happens when they venture deep into the forest to collect firewood , crabs or honey . "  joseph vattakaven , of wwf-india , says : " the sundarbans is a unique habitat that 's very harsh for tigers and people . these conditions leave the tigers very little prey -- anywhere else in the world they prey on human beings . "  nobody knows how many people have died in the hundreds of villages that lie scattered across the sundarbans , a maze of swamp , islands and mangrove forests described by amitav ghosh , in his novel the hungry tide , as " the trailing threads of india 's fabric , the ragged fringe of her sari " .  official estimates are sketchy and are generally thought to greatly underestimate the reality because so many of those killed simply go missing . often the victims are there illegally and relatives fear a fine or the loss of their fishing permit .  an unsuccessful scheme to scare off the animals with masks  in recent years , tigers and humans have been increasingly thrown together , as climate change combines with years of forest subsistence to put resources under increasing pressure . fish catches are declining , rivers are silting up , cyclones are becoming more frequent and intense , while rising sea levels result in less fresh water , more floods and faster rates of erosion . sundarbans are more aggressive than elsewhere because the water in this coastal area is more salty , putting them in a state of discomfort -- but most experts believe this to be a myth .  meanwhile , dwindling resources are forcing communities to go deeper into the " core " of the forests to collect honey , fish , shrimps , crabs and wood for their boats and homes . this makes them more vulnerable to tiger attacks , while the tigers are forced to come out of the forest because they are finding less prey .  belinda wright , a tiger conservationist and founder of the wildlife protection society of india , who also lives in bali village , says : " you ca n't walk through the forest . you have to crawl -- human beings become four-legged animals and so the tigers treat you like one of their prey . over the years people have become completely dependent on the mangrove . this is one of the most impoverished areas in india ; there are no roads , no electricity , and only minimal health care eat humans , mr vattakaven says , and because they are so deep in the forest no one can see them and the tides take away the remains .  " the tigers have had a massive impact on villagers ' lives . just to know that after darkness you could get killed -- that changes the mindscape , " he adds . " it 's always there in the background . whenever someone goes to fish or collect honey they stage an elaborate farewell because it might be their last trip . people pray for their safety .  " everyone knows someone who has been killed by a tiger -- every village has lost at least one person . and on top of the deaths there are many that have been marked , bitten , scratched -- it is common for people to show their wounds . "  despite the trauma inflicted on the victims and their families , many insist that they do not hate the animals . instead , they are seen as the forest 's protector , especially against the threat of logging .  save the tiger  1/9 save the tiger  evgeny lebedev , second left , with rangers from the regional government 's anti-poaching initiative  2/9 save the tiger  a siberian tiger stands on a hill in the hengdaohezi breeding center for felidae in harbin of heilongjiang province , china . the center , established in 1986 , is the world 's biggest captive breeding base for siberian tigers and more than 800 siberian tigers have been raised here  getty  3/9 save the tiger  a siberian tiger ( panthera tigris altaica ) cools itself down in a pool in rio de janeiro  afp/getty  4/9 save the tiger  one of two siberian tigers , delivered by russia in a swap deal in which moscow has procured two persian leopards , is pictured in tehran 's eram zoo  afp/getty  5/9 save the tiger  tiger skin seized from a smuggler by customs officers in lhasa , tibet  getty  6/9 save the tiger  javan tigers were slightly smaller than their mainland cousins but were renowned for their especially long whiskers ( the 7/9 save the tiger  a tiger at india 's ranthambore national park where four new sanctuaries and a ' tiger corridor ' have been approved to stem the animal 's decline  aditya singh/afp/getty images  8/9 save the tiger  a bengal tiger track in royal bardia national park , nepal  wwf  9/9 save the tiger  a bengal tiger captured by a camera trap in nepal  wwf  ms wright has also noticed a tendency among villagers to appreciate the tiger 's place in the larger scheme of things . she remembers meeting the father of rupali bowlia , a 14-year-old schoolgirl who was attacked and killed by a tiger in 2004 as she sat behind her family 's mud house doing her homework .  " a couple of years later i was astonished to see her father , bimal bowlia , attending one of our gatherings to celebrate wildlife week . he told me : ' we need to understand and respect what 's out there -- the sky , the jungle , and even the tiger -- if we are to prosper is a strong sense among those in the sundarbans that the death-toll has fallen significantly this decade , at least in the indian quarter . mr vattakaven puts this down to an ongoing project to build nylon fences around the forest to contain the tigers , and tightening restrictions on people going deep into the forest .  other measures have been tried with less success , he says , including electrified " human " dummies on boats . the idea was that the tiger would attack , get an electric shock and associate that feeling with humans , making them less likely to strike again .  a male bengal tiger is released deep in the forest after wandering too close to villages  " i 'm not sure that one worked , " says mr vattakaven . " but the nylon fences and increased restrictions on entering the forest are helping bring down numbers . the fence is primarily meant to keep tigers in the forest but it also acts as a physical and psychological barrier to people going in . "  but there is still much more -- a significant deterrent for tigers who much prefer the dark -- and more fences need to be built . there also needs to be more enforcement of laws preventing people going into the forest core and an increase in people patrolling the perimeter , adds mr vattakaven .  most difficult of all , people need to be made less dependent on the forest . new jobs need to be created , for example by developing tourism in the area , he says . but he insists that for most , moving away from the sundarbans is n't an option .  " when you 've been born with the idea that tigers are there you get used to a certain life . people love the place . it 's a unique habitat and rich in culture . people are very passionate about the area so they would n't move unless they had to , " he says .  how to help :  this is a charity donation service . texts cost ? 3 plus one message at your standard network rate ( age 16+ ; uk mobiles of your ? 3 gift . the wwf may contact you again in future . if you would prefer it not to call , please text nocall wwf to 70060 . if you would prefer not to receive sms messages from the wwf , please text nosms wwf to 70060 . if you wish to discuss a mobile payment call 0203 282 7863 . except for the adopt a tiger programme , donations made through the provided links and telephone number will go towards the wwf 's tiger projects in the russian far east . for more details , visit wwf.org.uk/tigerterms . wwf uk , charity registered in england , number 1081247 , and in scotland , number sc039593.