Never forget the bravery and the selfless sacrifice
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/history/world-war-one/11008420/Never-forget-the-bravery-and-the-selfless-sacrifice.html

Never forget the bravery and the selfless sacrifice  Commentary : As Britain prepares to remember , Sajid Javid , the Culture Secretary , on why we should never forget  Grave of Private John Parr , who the first British Soldier killed in WWI on 21st August 1914 , St Symphorien Military Cemetery , BelgiumPhoto : Rex  By Sajid Javid , Culture Secretary  10:30PM BST 02 Aug 2014  Within the rich earth of St Symphorien Military Cemetery , there is indeed " a richer dust concealed " . The site , just over a mile from the Belgian tourist town of Mons , is the resting place of 229 British , Irish and Commonwealth soldiers of the First World War , brave young men who made the ultimate sacrifice for their country .  They include Pte John Parr , from Finchley , who was just 20 years old when he was killed on August 21 1914 -- the first British combat casualty of the war . Beside him lie Pte JW Gladman , who died two days later , and 34-year-old Pte the Royal Irish Regiment .  Ptes Parr , Gladman and Walsh fought alongside millions of men from every corner of Britain and its empire . When the guns finally fell silent after more than four years of bloodshed , more than 700,000 British soldiers , sailors and airmen lay dead . The Commonwealth also paid a heavy price -- New Zealand lost around 17,000 men , Canada and Australia 60,000 each , and more than 65,000 members of the Indian Army never returned . Some 200,000 Irishmen served in the British army , with 27,000 falling in battle .  Not a single British soldier who took part is still with us .  Tomorrow evening around 500 people will gather at St Symphorien to commemorate the start of the first truly global conflict a century ago , among them descendants of those buried there -- Allied and German -- as well as the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge , Prince Harry and the Prime Minister .  Other events will also mark the centenary . The day will begin with a service for the Commonwealth at Glasgow Cathedral ,  At 10pm , Westminster Abbey will host a service of commemoration , with similar services held around the UK , including at St Anne 's Cathedral in Belfast and Llandaff Cathedral in Cardiff .  A century ago , as the spectre of war loomed , Sir Edward Grey , the foreign secretary , was said to have remarked that " the lamps are going out all over Europe , we shall not see them lit again in our lifetimes " . Between 10pm and 11pm tomorrow , the Lights Out project will see lamps in private homes , public buildings , places of work and places of worship once again extinguished -- with just a single candle or bulb left illuminating one window as a symbol of continuing hope in darkness . I 'd urge you to take part .  British WWI soldiers in a front Line trench , 1915 ( Rex )  Tomorrow 's events are the start of a four-year , ? 125 million programme of commemorations co-ordinated by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport .  Next April we will mark the the Battle of Jutland will focus our memories on the war at sea ; in July 2016 we will commemorate the Battle of the Somme , in which almost 20,000 Britons died on the first day alone ; in the summer of 2017 attention focuses on Passchendaele ; and in 2018 we will remember the Battle of Amiens and celebrate the Armistice .  Alongside these larger events , a huge variety of smaller and more local gatherings will also reflect the way in which the First World War touched every corner of the United Kingdom .  Of the 14,000 parishes in England and Wales that sent men to the front , only around 50 saw them all come home . Not a single community in Scotland or Northern Ireland was so lucky .  A British assault on a Turkish position ( Rex )  The scale and scope of the First World War is almost unimaginable today , the losses impossible to comprehend .  But we must never forget the lessons we learned from those four bloody years . Nor must we forget the way the people , above all we must never forget the bravery and selfless sacrifice of men like Private Parr , Private Gladman and Private Walsh .  So today , and tomorrow , over the next four years and for ever after , at the going down of the sun and in the morning , we will remember them .