Even as a Catholic, I support the Orange Order's march in defence of ...
http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/tomgallagher/100286100/even-as-a-catholic-i-support-the-orange-orders-march-in-defence-of-the-union/

Tom Gallagher spent 32 years teaching politics and casting doubt on seductive cure-alls from European integration to Scottish Nationalism . He is professor emeritus of Bradford University and has published eleven books on European politics .  Even as a Catholic , I support the Orange Order 's march in defence of the Union  As unsettling polls torment pro-Union citizens , the Orange Order is finalising plans for a march and rally in central Edinburgh this Saturday . This body , long an expression of working-class solidarity with the Union and the Protestant values felt to underpin it , is expected to easily mobilise 10,000 people .  Jim Murphy himself is unlikely to be pleased at being lumped together with Orange Scots . When the march was announced he branded the Order as " unsavoury " and its initiative unhelpful . He is on a campaign tour which he has dubbed " 100 towns in 100 days " , and in Musselburgh on Monday I heard him talk about his own family 's roots in Donegal , Ireland and the far from smooth reception that to make their way in Scotland .  As a practising Roman Catholic mindful of how Protestant fears and suspicion slowed the progress of Catholics who arrived in Scotland from Ireland to toil in the mines and build much of the country 's infrastructure , I share some of Jim Murphy 's reserve .  But I am still prepared to emit two cheers for the Orange Order , because of what I know of the recent history of Scotland . It is one of the puzzles of the deadly Ulster conflict that it had so little impact on its closest neighbour . In some of the most populous areas of Scotland , the communal tensions which wreaked such prolonged havoc in Ulster were faithfully duplicated .  One important explanation is the role played by Orange officials in defying hotheads who wished to smuggle arms to Ulster and even open up a new front in Scotland . It would have been easy to court cheap popularity by playing along with the militants . But during very tense times in the Seventies , the leadership kept them at bay . They the Catholic Church to keep Scotland peaceful . Thanks to its vigilance , the conflict in Ulster was n't further internationalised .  Its uniformed marchers beating drums and trilling flutes as they regularly march in Scotland 's cities during the summer months , sometimes present a stern and disharmonious image . But Scottish Orangeism is a force for moderation .  Along with the Catholic Church , it ensured that the raw social emotions which make Lowland Scotland one of the most volatile urban settings in the Western world , were not channelled into overt political conflict . Now the Catholic Church is retreating into itself , buffeted by falling numbers and clerical scandal . A vacuum has opened up among working-class Scots proud of their " rebel " Irish heritage . During this marathon referendum campaign , It has been increasingly filled by Yes Scotland , the SNP 's independence front . Ultra-leftists and strongly anti-British separatists have won over a large number of Irish-minded Scots , particularly middle-aged men . Some of them have been among the ugly crowds of Yes supporters who have tried to howl Jim are now splintered , and if independence comes and is accompanied by hard economic times , the prospects for this downscale community 's survival as a coherent entity are bleak . The Orange Order is weathering these stormy times better . It gains inspiration from the 16th-century Reformation in which Scotland played a lead European role . But its Protestantism is pragmatic rather than confrontational . This is in tune with the fact that a great many Orange members are not regular churchgoers . Nevertheless , they still share an understanding that personal freedom and a system of law that elevates the individual over the state was shaped by the struggle against rigid Catholic hierarchy .  The Catholic Church has had troubles aplenty in Scotland , not least the sex scandal which drove Cardinal Keith O'Brien into premature retirement . But these woes have not been added to by the Orange Order . Its feisty monthly publication , the Orange Torch , has remained tight-lipped about the Church troubles which have made press headlines and brought gleeful attacks from militant secular forces .  Not for many years has the which are paid for out of the public purse . Without saying so outright , Orange leaders appear to recognise that by emphasising faith and morality in the curriculum and not an ethical free-for-all , these schools are attempting to do a lot of good in a troubled age .  So I , a Scottish Catholic historian , believe the Orange Order deserves to march through Scotland 's capital five days before the fate of the Union ( and perhaps much else besides ) will be decided . It has earned its rally through the good sense and moderation it has displayed during some turbulent times . If it regards Catholicism as a long-term problem then that is sad but it is largely its own affair . In an age of uniformity , in which laws are used to sometime outlaw legitimate differences of view , this is a tenable position to have .  Indeed when I see Catholic church leaders keeping a foolish silence in face of an independence drive which threatens to impoverish many ordinary Catholics , will probably result in the abolition of their schools , power , this Catholic sometimes wonders if the Orange Order does n't have a point about his Church .  If the Orange Order were to abandon its march , it would be a victory for the intimidation that increasingly has marked this campaign . The vandalised No placards across Scotland , the damage to cars with Better Together stickers , the mobbing of Jim Murphy 's rallies , and the bile that has coursed through social media from ultra-Nats , reveals a toxicity in the Scottish atmosphere that will be slow to disperse . If Edinburgh 's Orange march is a gesture of resistance , then this Catholic will definitely be there to cheer on fellow citizens who today are defending British civilisation .  Tom Gallagher is the author of The Illusion of Freedom : Scotland Under Nationalism , ( Hurst Publications , New York University Press , 2010 ) . Manchester University Press will publish his next book , Europe 's Path to Crisis : Disintegration Through Monetary Union , in October .