More than half of British parents with disabled children admit to ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/womens-health/11088124/Antidepressants-Parents-of-disabled-children-admit-to-extreme-anxiety.html

Two thirds want more emotional support , through counselling services , while 60 per cent said that talking to other parents in the same position was vital .  Parents can talk to each other  In response to the findings , Scope has launcheda new online communityfor the families of disabled children . It aims to help them share experiences , find guidance and access the best support and equipment in their local area . The charity hopes it will also bring together those who want to campaign on wider issues surrounding the lack of Government support .  The site will be managed by volunteers , experts and a team of parents , who will be on-hand to offer advice on specific issues .  Anna Bird , Head of Research and Public Policy at Scope says : " The impact of not getting the right support is profound and can affect every aspect of family life .  " We need to see local councils fully commit to providing adequate support for families with disabled children .  " A key part of making about what is needed , and then planning services accordingly .  " We 'd encourage all parents with disabled children to get in touch with their local council to find out more about their ' local offer ' and how they can help inform it . "  The charity also runs a free national helpline , which offers advice and emotional support to disabled people and their families .  Local authorities have a responsibility to listen  On September 1 , a new requirement came into force , meaning that local councils must publish a ' local offer ' the services available for disabled children and their families in their area , and work with them when making decisions about what 's required .  " Mums and dads rightly want the very best for their children and a large part of this involves knowing how to access the available help in their local area . We would encourage families to get in touch with their council to find out what 's on offer for parents and children and have their say on what services are needed . and young people who have disabilities is currently undergoing a major shake-up across England . The changes are designed to ensure that parents , carers and young people are at the heart of everything we do and have a bigger voice in the services they want and receive . "