Listen to the SUN as satellite data is translated to reveal 'sound' of ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2752057/Listen-SUN-Satellite-data-translated-reveal-sound-solar-wind.html

a scientist at nasa has converted data from the sun into sounds in a process called ' sonification ' .  in a video they use data from nasa 's wind spacecraft to ' listen ' to the solar magnetic field .  as the solar wind changes in intensity , a shockwave can be heard passing over the spacecraft .  a scientist at the university of michigan has carried out ' sonification ' . this involved turning spacecraft data into audible sounds ( illustration shown ) . this resulted in short clips that revealed shock waves passing over the satellite . the data was gathered by nasa 's wind satellite in 2007  robert alexander , a phd candidate in design science at the university of michigan , performed the process .  he is also a sonification specialist who trains heliophysicists at nasa 's goddard space flight center in greenbelt , maryland .  related articles  share this article  the wind satellite , which is in orbit around the sun , records electromagnetic fluctuations that can be converted directly to audio samples algorithms to convert those electromagnetic frequencies into sounds .  the result is that when a fast stream of plasma - super hot , charged gas that fills space - passes the spacecraft , it creates a noticeable effect .  converting data from the wind spacecraft into audio reveals an audible shock wave .  the wind satellite ( right ) , which launched in 1994 and is still active today , is used to study radio and plasma that occur in the solar wind from the sun ( left ) before it reaches earth . the wind spacecraft has enough fuel to last in solar orbit for 60 years , during which time it could continue to gather useful data  in one example , alexander 's team analysed data points from the wind satellite from november 2007 , condensing three hours of real-time recording to a three second audio clip .  is a giant solar storm on its way to earth ?  while this ' sonification ' process related to an event in 2007 , a powerful solar flare blasting its way towards earth could wreak .  scientists have warned that the ' extreme ' solar storm could affect power grids , satellites and radio transmissions when the flare arrives at the earth 's surface .  but they said they are not ' scared of this one ' , as the worst of its power looks like it will miss the planet and not cause many problems .  it should , however , lead to stunning auroras extending out from earth 's poles .  to an untrained ear , the data sounds like a microphone recording on a windy day .  when alexander presented these sounds to a researcher , however , they could identify a distinct chirping at the beginning of the audio clip followed by a percussive event , culminating in a loud boom .  alexander translates the data into audio files through a process known as audification , a specific type of sonification that involves directly listening to raw , unedited satellite data .  translating this data into audio can be likened to part of the process of collecting sound from a person singing into a microphone a person sings into a microphone , it detects changes in pressure and converts the pressure signals to changes in magnetic intensity in the form of an electrical signal .  the clips have three distinct sections , including a warble noise leading up to a short knock at slightly higher frequency followed by a quieter segment containing broadband noise that is both rising and hissing . the sound of a shock passing over the spacecraft can also be heard  the electrical signals are stored on the reel tape . magnetometers on the wind satellite measure changes in magnetic field directly creating a similar kind of electrical signal .  alexander writes a computer program to translate this data to an audio file .  ' the tones come out of the data naturally , ' he said .  ' if there is a frequency embedded in the data , then that frequency becomes audible as a sound . '  listening to data in this way has been done before . in a study in 1982 , researchers used audification to identify micrometeroids , or small ring particles 's rings .  the impacts were visually obscured in the data but could be easily heard - sounding like intense impulses , almost like a hailstorm .  however , the method is not often used in the science community because it requires a certain level of familiarity with the sounds .  for instance , the listener needs to have an understanding of what typical solar wind turbulence sounds like in order to identify atypical events .  ' it 's about using your ear to pick out subtle differences , ' alexander said .