England must put Alastair Cook out of his misery
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/cricket/international/england/11297491/England-must-put-Alastair-Cook-out-of-his-misery.html

if peter moores and paul downton care about england 's world cup chances they must make one simple decision : remove alastair cook as odi captain  removing alastair cook as captain of the england one-day team just short of a world cup would not be a gamble . it is a straightforward decision , certainly not the big deal people are making out , and would be in the best interests of the england team as well cook himself .  i feel like a stuck record and this is not about saying " i told you so " . in fact this is not aimed at cook .  it is aimed at the two men running english cricket : peter moores and paul downton . in one way i applaud them for sticking by their man but it has gone too far and 99.9 per cent of england supporters , as well as current and former players , can see that . the problem is the 0.1 per cent , which is downton and moores , do not see it .  it startles at a better standard , which has been to win just one of his last nine odi series . that is a very worrying sign of how moores and downton judge the rest of the group .  downton has said he will sit in on england 's selection meeting on friday - why ? is it at the request of moores because he thinks he will need backing up in case the other selectors argue for cook to go ? downton is not a selector . he should not be there .  related articles  ok he does not have a vote but he is the boss of angus fraser , mick newell and james whitaker . they have seen from his interviews this week that paul is backing cook as captain .  the selectors who have not been in sri lanka need to have an honest discussion about the best way forward and how england can compete at the world cup . having downton in the room will stifle that debate . how can a selector raise his objections when he knows his boss has already backed just four selectors and four walls . that way they can make the best decision for english cricket . i always say look in the mirror . as a selector ask yourself is cook one of the best 15 one-day players in england ? i think he 's not in the top 30 .  cook has to do the same by asking himself if he 's doing best thing for the team by hanging around . if he genuinely believes he is , then carry on but if he thinks england are better without him , then step aside .  ultimately it should be a straightforward move . if they sack cook on friday it will not have a big impact on the team . it will not set the side back or fundamentally change the team 's approach to one day cricket .  but it would put a frazzled cook out of his misery , allow him to concentrate on test cricket and winning the back the ashes in july . it would also allow england to pick their best team and not have to continually move his last 22 matches .  using his record in australia as a reason for sticking with him is hanging a hat on a peg that does not exist . in one-day cricket in australia and new zealand cook averages 35 with strike rate of 73 . hardly starting and does not fit this modern era .  last winter he struggled against australians bowling full outside a fourth stump . teams have worked out not to bowl short at cook . they also bowl spin in one-day cricket . he plants his front foot , using a big forward press , which is fine in test cricket because it helps you defend , but in one-day cricket it makes you static . you ca n't move again and force the bowler to change his length . the best players of spin use their feet so they can sweep and cut . cook ca n't do that . he is stationary so it is easy to bowl at him and set fields meaning he will always chew up balls .  he must be exhausted by all the criticism . but to perform . you are not unlucky . it is because you are not scoring runs .  a golfing analogy sums up where england are at with cook . when a smart golfer hits the ball into a bush he takes his medicine , hits it out sideways and walks off with a bogey or double bogey but is still in the tournament . a desperate golfer goes for the magic shot , flaps away and keeps thrashing making things worse . he shoots a 10 or 11 and has missed the cut . england are that desperate golfer thrashing around in the bush .  but if they take their medicine and move on then there is hope because england have some very talented players and eoin morgan can step in as captain .  i know he is not in great form . but morgan 's highest score last summer was when he captained england in a twenty20 . his best innings on this trip was when he was in charge too . he clearly likes leadership .  there have been positives on this trip . moeen . james taylor has batted smartly at three and joe root has shown outstanding maturity and calmness in the middle order . chris woakes has improved and ravi bopara has had a good tour too which is why i thought it was staggering he was dropped for the final game .  england need his bowling . they lack an x-factor fast bowler or mystery spinner so they need clever bowlers who can mix up their pace like ravi . why cook gave him just 15 overs in five matches is a mystery .  with stuart broad and james anderson to come into the side england have a chance of surprising a few people in australia . but only if they make one simple decision over the next few days .