First Sports Personality of the Year and then X Factor: The people ...
http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/first-sports-personality-of-the-year-and-then-x-factor-the-people-have-spoken-and-they-haven-t-got-a-9929461.html

first sports personality of the year and then x factor : the people have spoken ... and they have n't got a clue  ben haenow is leading the christmas number one race syco/thames/corbis  after a weekend that brought the concept of democracy to its knees , i can no longer resist the urge to confess to this unsettling thought . if the will of the people is this wilfully obtuse , would n't we better off under a benign dictatorship ?  curiously , such alarming speculation has nothing to do with the latest revelations about the political party to which we the people may gift the balance of power next may ( we will come to ukip elsewhere ) . it was the pair of plebiscites declared within moments of one another on sunday night .  read more  taking them in chronological order brings us first to the popular revolution which concluded another season of x factor . if you missed the show , i congratulate you . if not , you will have witnessed a popular rebellion against simon cowell . as cowell clearly intended , the people rewarded a pub and club singer , ben haenow , for bravely battling one of two undiagnosed disorders : either the misapprehension that growling every line is cool ( ronan keating syndrome ) or chronic laryngitis .  tempting as it is to applaud a coup d'etat against cowell and his crude manipulation of the shrinking number of saddos like myself who still watch the stale karaoke-fest , the man who built one direction out of five solo artist wannabes can discern the marginal talent of a fleur from the grinding mediocrity of a ben .  15/31 x factor 2014  16/31 x factor 2014  17/31 x factor 2014  finalist andrea faustini performs in a golden costume on the halloween show  splash news  18/31 x factor 2014  contestant stevi ritchie performs ' music of the night ' from the phantom of the opera on the live x factor halloween show  splash news  19/31 x factor 2014  finalist lauren platt performs ' dark horse ' on the halloween special  splash news  20/31 x factor perform ' monster mash ' on the live halloween show in london  splash news  21/31 x factor 2014  lola saunders performs ' crazy ' on the live halloween show  syco/thames/corbis  22/31 x factor 2014  stereo kicks perform together on stage during movie week  splash news , corbis  23/31 x factor 2014  andrea faustini performs on stage during movie week  splash news , corbis  24/31 x factor 2014  fleur east performs during movie week  splash news , corbis  25/31 x factor 2014  ben haenow performs during movie week  splash news , corbis  26/31 x factor 2014  lauren platt performs on movie week  splash news , corbis  27/31 x factor 2014  only the young mixed group performing on stage during movie week  splash news , corbis  28/31 x factor 2014  jay james performing during movie week  splash news , corbis  29/31 x factor 2014  paul akister performs on movie week  splash news , corbis  30/31 x factor 2014  lola saunders seen performing on 31/31 x factor 2014  jack walton performs during movie week  splash news , corbis  if the itv1 electorate raised grave questions about the process of what qualifies in our culture as the most vibrant expressions of democratic will , bbc1 viewers who elected the sports personality of the year award immediately answered them by absurdly plumping for lewis hamilton over rory mcllroy .  it is true , of course , that massively embarrassing picks were made before the vote was outsourced to the public a few years ago . we need n't belabour the legendary oxymoron whereby nigel mansell was twice awarded a title featuring the word " personality " . yet in those two years , as in so many others , the choice was sufficiently limited ( if the crown green bowler david bryant had worked out how to light his pipe , he would have won ) as to be no choice at all .  this year , once again , there should have been no real choice . hamilton won a formula 1 world championship in which , with teammate nico rosberg was the superiority of these cars that my late grandmother bessie norman , who celebrated a driving test pass at a precocious 77-years-old by driving into my grandfather 's knee , would have taken a clutch of pole positions and several chequered flags at the wheel of hamilton 's mercedes .  lewis hamilton becomes the first motor racing star to win the award since damon hill in 1996  where there are generally two potential champions in f1 , and at most five in a men 's grand slam tennis event , 40 or 50 golfers begin a major with a realistic chance . this is why winning one is the toughest challenge in individual sport . mcilroy brilliantly won two in succession , the open and the us pga . having established himself as much the best player in the world and a live contender to join jack nicklaus and tiger woods in golf 's holy trinity , he played his part in giving the americans the ryder cup hiding they richly deserved .  in the generally undistinguished modern history of british sport , only andy murray ( had a 12 months to rival mcilroy 's . the young man is a rampant genius where hamilton is a very good and quick driver . but thanks to the obsession with pandering to the public voice ( the incessant recitation of tweets on radio shows ; the online message boards shrieking with semi-literate thuggery ) , a crestfallen mcilroy was robbed .  read more  motor sport fanatics are not only weirdo fantasists in the clarkson mould , but compulsive phone voters . even if such venerable followers of golf as peter alliss do master the technology of texting , the tendency to wear stringback driving gloves at all times would frustrate their best intentions .  these simultaneous miscarriages of justice make it unmistakably plain that the public , while we may safely be permitted the trivial political choices , can not be trusted with the serious stuff .  whether from cowell , a group of sports editors or whomever , decisions about the truly sacrosanct aspects of national life need the firm smack of dictatorship . gk chesterton wrote that " we are the people of was then . we never stop speaking now , and from us an indefinite period of silence would be greatly appreciated .