Games Of Thrones' Three-Eyed Raven teases new scenes of Arya ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2876451/Games-Thrones-Three-Eyed-Raven-teases-new-scenes-Arya-Sansa-highly-anticipated-fifth-season.html

games of thrones ' three-eyed raven teases new scenes of arya and sansa from highly-anticipated fifth season  if game of thrones fans were not already on the edge of their seats for more teasers of the upcoming fifth season , the prophetic three-eyed raven 's visions will surely push them overboard .  on monday , new footage from the wildly popular hbo series was released on the show 's new social media campaign threeeyedraven.com displaying a fifteen second teaser meant to appear like visions from the westerosi bird .  just a peek : hbo released a new fifteen second trailer for the upcoming fifth season of game of thrones on the show 's campaign website threeeyedraven on monday night  the fan-site resource shares brand new game of throne videos and information with loyal followers via text message or twitter message to those who signed up for an account online .  although hardly anything is given away , the footage showed arya paddling a rowboat with the braavosi captain from last season . meanwhile , cersei is imprisoned .  arya 's fate on the show 's twitter page and thewebsite in late november .  where to ? arya stark can be seen paddling a rowboat with the braavosi captain from last season  imprisoned : queen cersei lannister played by actress lena headey is in captivity  plotting his next move ? tyrion lannister ( peter dinklage ) lurks in the shadows  at the end of season four , arya dramatically took back her freedom ; leaving the hound for dead on the roadside and using jaqen h'ghar 's mystical coin to board ship to braavos .  she has grown up over four very dramatic game of thrones seasons , going from an outspoken tomboy to a hardened outlaw in the captivity of sandor ' the hound ' clegane .  ' the raven brings #thesight , ' the post reads , before encouraging fans to sign up to receive updates via the website .  the three-eyed raven refers to the mysterious vision experienced by arya 's brother brandon who finally came face to face with the raven 's human form at the end of last season .  face with the red priestess melisandre 's voice declaring : ' i see a darkness in you . '  point of view : the latest teaser is meant to appear like visions from the three-eyed raven  i see a darkness in you : melissandre 's words are hauntingly played over the new ten second teaser for the fifth season of game of thrones which focusses on arya stark ( maisie williams )  another killing ? arya last season left her tormentor the hound for dead  several images flash past showing the orphan daughter of ned and catelyn stark running through a forest , seemingly attacking a man lying on the ground and holding her sword ' needle ' to an unnamed assailant .  no new characters are seen in the clip , although thrones is introducing several new faces to its sprawling cast .  alexander siddig plays prince oberyn 's brother doran and then there are three of oberyn 's vengeful daughters - collectively known as the sand snakes and played by keisha castle-hughes , jessica henwick , and rosabell laurenti sellers .  point needle ' at an unknown man  swords play : the fate of arya is one of the most hotly anticipated in the new season  valar morghulis : arya said the magic words while holding the coin which won her passage on a ship  jaimie lannister has the unenviable task of being sent on a mission to dorne following the shocking defeat and death of prince oberyn martell by ser gregor clegane during a trial by combat at king 's landing . toby sebastian also appears as trystane martel .  meanwhile , tyrion lannister ( dinklage ) has fled after murdering his father tywin lannister ( charles dance ) while night 's watchman jon snow ( kit harington ) will have to pick up the pieces following the epic battle at the wall .  emilia clarke 's character daenerys targaryen continues to carve out her own regal empire from across the sea .  the fifth season of game of thrones will air next spring .  fighting back : arya seen with her trusty sword in the fourth season of game of thrones  left for episode of season four