The biggest disappointments of 2014
http://www.itproportal.com/2014/12/24/biggest-disappointments-2014/

the biggest disappointments of 2014  we 've had enough of talking about everything that 's been good this year , now it 's time to focus on the things that have n't been so great .  as with every year , the last 12 months has seen some disappointments in the world of tech , with unfulfilled hopes and dashed dreams cropping up every now and then to keep us on our toes .  but do n't just take my word for it , here 's what our all-knowing writers thought were some of the biggest disappointments of 2014 .  no new cheap nexus -- jamie hinks  as a google android phone owner , it would be very easy to reserve this section for apple 's " groundbreaking " iphone 6 and 6 plus devices that do much of what the likes of samsung and htc have been doing well for some time .  that 's too simple and nowhere near as disappointing as google 's decision to stop bringing out low-priced nexus smartphones with high-end specs and instead hit the in other years google has released the nexus 4 and 5 that have both been at the sub- ? 300 price point and the fact they are google 's own smartphones meant that they were the first to receive android updates .  now the only option on the table is to buy last year 's nexus 5 ( which is often out of stock ) or hit ebay .  the other choice for those of us that want one of the latest handsets with stock android is to invest in the motorola 's moto x pure edition , which brings the nexus 6 specs into a device without a phablet-sized screen .  apple watch at 12 o'clock -- darren allen  the biggest disappointment for me this year was apple 's " next big thing " , the apple watch , which was unveiled back in september .  i was expecting great things from apple with this gadget . the firm 's ipad is on the slide , and we 've seen nothing truly new since , well , the ipad -- just new versions of iphones the unveiling , my first impressions were that apple 's smartwatch does n't look as attractive as i thought it might . i was expecting something truly breath-taking in the aesthetics department , with all the assembled ranks of fashion editors invited to the launch to goggle over this new creation .  and while it 's certainly not a bad looking piece of hardware , it 's a little chunkier than i anticipated , and i was really expecting something that looks sleeker on the wrist ( to truly capture that status symbol appeal ) .  but forget looks for the moment . what about features -- it 's those that are really important , right ? well , the apple watch does n't exactly score on that point either .  what exactly does it do that other smartwatches do n't ? uhh ... well ... umm , okay , so there 's a very smart looking ui system , and some neat trimmings -- but there are no killer features which make you sit up in your seat and pay attention .  apparently apple even recognises planning to add further sensors and more in-depth health features down the line , such as sleep or blood sugar monitoring . but this sort of thing should have been in the device from the get-go .  in fairness , there may be more revelations on the feature front next year as the launch nears , but do n't hold your breath for anything spectacular .  and there 's also the price . while nothing is confirmed , even the stainless steel version is likely to be very expensive going by reports ( let alone the gold watch , although we 'd expect the latter to be astronomical , naturally ) .  is this really the device that will kick-start the smartwatch revolution next year , as many analysts seem to be predicting ? not from where i 'm stood ...  but then , this is an apple product , and that 's perhaps all it needs to be .  amazon fire fails to set the world alight -- barclay ballard  there was much hype in 2014 surrounding amazon 's first foray into the smartphone the public 's imagination alight .  it 's hallmark characteristic , the " dynamic perspective , " which uses four front-facing cameras to give a pseudo-3d impression of depth , came across as more of a gimmick than a must-have feature .  while the handset does boast some decent specs , with a launch price of ? 480 off-contract for the 64gb model , surely consumers could have expected more than that ?  the firefly shopping app , which enables users to scan items to search for them online , was also reported to have its fair share of problems .  considering that this is the company that revolutionised the publishing market with its kindle ebook range , the fire phone has been disappointingly similar to other phones on the market , without benefitting from their extensive library of apps .  amazon has responded to criticism of the device 's poor sales figures by reducing the price and stressing that it is a long-term project . however , i 'm sure the online giant has learned a valuable , if expensive , lesson from the fire the already congested smartphone market .  it 's hard to pick just one -- fadil pa ? ic  as much as there were great technological releases that really made me say wow ( still waiting on that oculus rift , and half life 3 , though ) , there were also some let down 's .  among the most disappointing things that happened this year , i 'd like to single out destiny , as probably the biggest let down in the gaming industry this year ( or maybe ever ? ) , along with wearable " smart " gear , especially watches , and the poor , poor , nokia phones .  destiny , the " biggest " game to date in which more than $500 million ( ? 320 million ) was invested , turned out to be just a mediocre , generic fps marred by pointless dlcs , boring gameplay and limited content .  " smart watches " that everyone thought would revolutionise the way we use our phones , turned out to be just a wearable notification bar that costs a lot still have a chance to prove worthy , so we 'll just have to wait and see .  nokia phones , the epitome of quality phones , completely lost the battle with samsung and apple . once a phone industry giant , lumia got sold to microsoft , which struggles for a piece of the market pie , but offers mediocre phones , and a digital store with little apps .  no star performance from samsung galaxy -- david curry  samsung has had a poor year all around , and a major contributor to the failure has to be attributed to the galaxy s5 .  billed up as the next step for samsung , the galaxy s5 did not bring any major improvements over its predecessor , and failed to compete against some amazing smartphones released in 2014 .  the end result is lacklustre sales -- under 15 million in over six months -- and almost nobody considering the galaxy s5 as a top ten smartphone of 2014 .  effects of the galaxy s5 's failure are far reaching , samsung has changed its mobile smartphones in 2015 and is apparently working on an all-metal galaxy s6 .  hopefully , the failure of the galaxy s5 can spur samsung 's design team to make something beautiful , to compete with the iphone 6 and htc one m8 . everyone said this was the plan last year , but samsung is now coming off a huge market loss , so it should push the phone giant to be innovative .