Festive jumpers and presents stuck on top of buildings - Christmas ...
http://www.itv.com/news/calendar/2014-12-24/festive-jumpers-and-presents-stuck-on-top-of-buildings-christmas-day-in-the-life-of-a-police-call-handler/

Advertisement  Festive jumpers and presents stuck on top of buildings -- Christmas day in the life of a police call handler  If you need to call 999 on Christmas Day , one of the voices you might hear is that of Steve Marshall , a team leader in South Yorkshire Police 's call handling department .  Steve Marshall will be taking 999 calls on Christmas day Credit : South Yorkshire Police  Just as thousands of us are tucking into turkey sandwiches , or even having a snooze on the settee after one too many mince pies , Steve will be setting off for his night shift .  Steve retired as a police constable in 2004 and came back in a civilian role . This is his first Christmas Day working since he retired as an officer .  Steve said : " As an officer , I caught a few drink drivers on Christmas Day and a few people speeding to get to in-laws in time .  " A lot of the more ridiculous calls that come into the call handlers will be a different experience dealing with calls and hopefully resolving them .  " Call Handlers are the first point of contact with the public and on occasions , you feel on the front line as much as some officers . " .  " I 've not had a frozen turkey call but it could happen yet . I 'm hoping PC Rain is on duty -- he always helps to keep it quiet . "  As a team leader , Steve and other supervisors will be putting on a pie and pea supper for his team and there will also be the obligatory Christmas jumper .  Steve and his family will be celebrating Christmas on another day as two of his sons are also working .  He added : " There 'll be no Christmas dinner for me as I 'm working Christmas Eve as well but we will make up for it as a family on another day . "  Another team leader who has spent the last five Christmas Days at work is Claire Nugent .  Although Claire has been lucky children , she remembers one particular call from Christmas Day .  " Every scenario you can imagine , someone will have called police about it .  " The most ridiculous Christmas call I took was a woman who said there had been a helicopter crash .  " However , when I started asking questions she said it was her son 's toy helicopter and it had landed on top of a shop and was stuck .  " I was relieved but could n't believe she thought she should call police about it . "  Claire said although there 's no Christmas dinner in the office the team do normally have bacon sandwiches to get in the festive spirit .  She added : " There 's always a good atmosphere in here on Christmas Day , we all work together and help each other out .  " You have had mega busy shifts in the run up to Christmas so it is usually a bit quieter on the day -- although it 's unpredictable .  " The weather has a huge effect on the you can guarantee more calls .  " I think people who do n't work shifts can often take it for granted spending Christmas Day with their family .  " We make the choice to work in a job that requires us to work over the festive period but I would still like to be at home with my family for Christmas so I will be making the most of being off this year . "