Rebecca is a frog's best friend
http://www.qt.com.au/news/why-rebecca-is-a-frogs-best-friend-ipswich/840379/

Popular Stories  Local Real Estate  Subscribe Now  UNIVERSITY of Queensland student Rebecca Diete is dedicated to saving a creature that is often derided and usually ignored , but one that should never be neglected .  Ms Diete is a long-time supporter of Save the Frogs , a world-wide public charity dedicated exclusively to frog conservation .  She said Save the Frogs ' primary aim was to create public awareness of the extremely high extinction rate of frogs , the threats they face and their crucial roles in society and natural ecosystems .  The abundance and distribution of frogs over time is an important indicator of the health of aquatic ecosystems , as frogs are very sensitive to changes in their environment .  Global frog populations have been in decline for a number of years and this trend is also evident among Australian frog populations .  This week , Rebecca Diete gave a presentation at UQ Gatton called The Wild World of Frogs to mark Save The Frogs Day .  " I am about to begin a PhD on " she said .  " I began supporting Save the Frogs when it began three years ago . I have been fundraising by selling Save the Frogs merchandise . "  She said Australia had at least 214 species of frogs , with many found nowhere else in the world .  But they were under siege from a range of attacks , both natural and man-made .  " In addition to chemically polluted waterways , Australian frogs face many other threats including habitat loss and alterations such as wetland drainage , introduced species such as trout and cane toads that prey upon eggs and young , increased salinity caused by land clearing and newly emerging diseases such as chytrid fungus , " Ms Diete said .  " One of the biggest barriers to recovery is that not enough is known about some of these threats and frog species are disappearing from even apparently pristine and undisturbed areas . "  Frog facts :  Tadpoles keep waterways clean by feeding on algae ;  Adult frogs eat large quantities of insects , including mosquitoes that can transmit their current form for 250 million years ;  One-third of amphibian species are on the verge of extinction ;  Frogs produce a wide array of skin secretions , many of which have significant potential to improve human health through their use as pharmaceuticals .