Trouble in toyland
http://www.brw.com.au/p/trouble_in_toyland_1suOo7QCxzq58EXiUoqiDM

Trouble in toyland  In 2004 , legendary toy maker Lego was an empire in demise . It was riddled with problems and on the brink of collapse .  Over the two years to 2004 , sales at the Danish-family owned company dropped 35 per cent worldwide , from 9.6 billion Danish krone ( $1.8 billion ) to 6.3 billion Danish krone .  The business was drowning in debt to the tune of 5 billion Danish krone while cash flow was running at negative 1 billion Danish krone .  This would be the darkest point in Lego 's history . The group had completely lost its focus . As opposed to manufacturing its famous building bricks , management had become caught up in running Legoland theme parks and licensing deals with film makers to produce merchandise .  The business was still run by the family of the founder -- Ole Kirk Christiansen -- and rumours swirled that its larger American rivals such as Mattel were eyeing it for a takeover .  The family dug deep and decided to step aside and bring new chief executive J ? rgen Vig Knudstorp arrived , he found a business that no longer knew its purpose .  " If someone had asked me at that time , ' Why does the Lego group exist ? ' I would not have had a good answer , " he says .  When he took over in 2004 , the ex-McKinsey consultant was only 33 . As the head of a high-profile company in trouble , his every move was watched .  Today , Knudstorp is a hero in Denmark and Lego group . Sales are up 37 per cent , to 16 billion krone for the last financial year to December 31 .  Net profit was up 68 per cent to 2.2 billion krone , the second year running that profit has risen by more than 60 per cent .  Lego 's story is one of a classic turnaround , of an iconic toy maker that lost sight of its core business and then found it again . It 's a story full of lessons for any business .  Lego was founded in blocks . But by 1990 , buoyed by that strong brand name , it had branched out into new businesses , theme parks , educational books and a TV series , among others . The three theme parks in the United Kingdom , the United States and Germany were the ultimate representations of this misguided expansion -- they were a huge distraction for management .  " They were examples of Lego engaging in a business system that they do n't really understand , " Knudstorp says . " We 'd spread ourselves too thinly , trying to be world champions at too many disciplines . "  With management distracted and resources stretched , innovation in Lego 's core Duplo and Lego City products waned .  In the toy business , product development is critical . Children want to see new toys on the shelf . For every dollar spent in Australia last year on toys , 55 ? went on new products .  When Knudstorp moved into the chief executive 's office , a purge was inevitable .  The Legoland parks were among the first assets , which immediately folded them into another of its interests , Merlin Entertainment .  Lego took a 20 per cent stake in Merlin and Knudstorp took a seat on its board .  Lego also shut three manufacturing plants in high-cost countries -- Denmark , Switzerland and the United States -- and had independent operators establish new facilities in Hungary , the Czech Republic and Mexico .  These two factors alone halved Lego 's workforce within two years from 10,000 worldwide to 4922 .  The timing was fortunate and unfortunate . Fortunate " because we had our financial crisis when the world was going through a boom , it was easier to restructure debt , to sell property and businesses , and lay off people because the unemployment in markets where we laid off people was very low " , Knudstorp says .  " The negative was that no one else was doing these sort of things , so we got an inordinate amount of press . "  Three years later , Lego would bring most of its manufacturing back in-house and the company 's experiment .  Knudstorp outsourced the manufacturing because he felt it was a commoditised process . However , when the time came to renew the contracts a couple of years later , he realised Lego could operate its manufacturing facilities at far less cost .  Its outsourcing partners could n't achieve any efficiency of scale from Lego 's operation : they did n't have a superior manufacturing technique , they could n't secure raw materials at better prices , or offer any flexibility by providing the same service for several clients .  The only edge was a lower hourly salary for factory workers which did n't make up for all the other disadvantages .  Unlike many of its competitors , Lego manufactures in Europe rather than in China . This , it says , makes it more responsive and means it can get stock to retailers faster , meaning they have to hold less inventory and can increase profit margins on Lego .  This resonates with toy buyers at leading stores . John Redenbach , the toy buyer for the Myer retail chain says Myer is making more having substantially reduced recommended retail prices .  " I 'm selling box sizes today for $100 that would have been $149 five years ago and they 're more profitable , " he says .  A major aspect of the turnaround was to change Lego 's corporate philosophy .  As a private company it had developed an air of secretiveness that rarely spoke to what was and still is an avid fan base .  Knudstorp 's decision was to embrace that fan base and become an open source entity .  " We made a conscious decision to involve fans in the innovation process , " he says . " I get emails from them directly , I answer them personally . "  Ryan McNaught is one such fan . A technology geek for Regency Media by day , McNaught became Australia 's first Lego certified professional last year .  Only 13 people in the world have earned this privilege . It entitles McNaught to use a special Lego logo on his designs and get paid for them .  " I consider myself like a , " McNaught says . " Some of us certified Lego professionals are very artistic , their work is considered art , others are more focused around using it as a tool in terms of architecture . "  McNaught has a large scale Lego mosaic of Melbourne property developer Daniel Grollo entered in the Archibald prize for portraiture .  From a marketing and innovation point of view , the concept of certified professionals is pure genius . It taps into their love of the product and allows the Lego brand to leverage off it .  This Valentine 's Day , McNaught built a 2.2 metre by 2 metre heart from Lego for his wife . It went on display in Melbourne 's botanic gardens before ending up in Myer 's flagship city store as part of a Valentine 's Day promotion .  " As a business , Lego would never be able to muster the creativity and energy to do that , " says Lego Australia 's outgoing general manager , Michael Keaton . " The investment in time and energy would be prohibitive . "  retailers .  " Early on I discovered that the answers to many of Lego 's problems existed among the employees , " Knudstorp says .  Over time , employee engagement has become embedded in Lego 's performance system . Predetermined indicators entitle everyone to a bonus of 10 per cent-plus of their annual salary , contingent upon quality , performance improvements and that the company overall is doing well . " It 's not exactly Wall Street , but it 's quite aggressive by Scandinavian standards , " Knudstorp says .  Meanwhile , two-thirds of Knudstorp 's yearly bonus depends on the satisfaction of the retailers worldwide with the offering , services and earnings they make from selling Lego boxes , how likely it is that parents will recommend Lego products to their friends and how engaged Lego staff are .  Last December , Lego came to the end of its five-year turnaround strategy and the resurrection has overshot even Knudstorp 's expectations .  But there is a peculiar irony in that in the same year Lego finalised its torturous , though ultimately triumphant , journey games .  By all accounts , the venture has been a success . In five months , Lego snaffled 5 per cent of the large games and puzzles category in Australia , according to research house Gfk .  It does , however , bring Lego full circle in more ways than one .  The theme parks are expanding -- a new Legoland is under construction in Malaysia . It is developing an online computer game and is again dabbling in TV shows .  Lego staff numbers have climbed back up to 2003 levels , which requires the question -- is the iconic toy maker once again straying from its core ?  Knudstorp insists that this time it is different . Now Lego is no longer directly involved in the delivery of non-core products .  He points to its relationship with Merlin and the Legoland theme parks as a classic example of how Lego is keeping its fingers in many pies but structuring those interests more cleverly .  " Theme parks are a great product but not one that Lego can do well , " as a great product , it looks at who is best suited to deliver it . This key lesson forms the basis of our strategy . "  Knudstorp is hopeful that Lego will be his first and last chief executive role .  He 's settling in for another seven years at the very least . However , he admits that this calls on him to constantly renew himself and his leadership style .  In hindsight , he says the biggest surprise throughout the whole turbulent journey has been the capacity of humans , Lego employees specifically , to exceed expectations .  " We always under utilise our potential as human beings , but I think the culture at Lego , the evolution we 've been through has had a catalysing effect on all of us , allowed us to unfold a greater potential than any of us had imagined . "