Electricity's uncertain future
http://www.abc.net.au/7.30/content/2011/s3238131.htm

Electricity 's uncertain future  As the debate over the Government 's carbon tax intensifies , the future of Australia 's electricity industry becomes more unclear .  Transcript  LEIGH SALES , PRESENTER : Thanks , Chris . The Gillard Government is trying to tackle the Opposition 's scare campaign on carbon tax head on by releasing Treasury estimates about the tax 's economic impact  In a speech in Canberra today the treasurer , Wayne Swan , said the figures prove the carbon tax will have a negligible effect on wages , growth and employment .  Uncertainty around the politics of the issue is prompting warnings of a dire impact on the electricity sector .  As Greg Hoy reports , some industry players say get ready for power shortages and widespread blackouts .  PRO CARBON TAX RALLY ORGANISER : As we speak here there 's rallies going around in each state and territory of Australia .  CROWD : Yeah !  GREG HOY , REPORTER : Fact or fiction ?  Heat is rising in the carbon debate , prompting dire electricity will outgrow the security of supply , threatening widespread brown or black outs .  MIKE HARROWELL , MARKET ANALYST , BBY : We are likely to be running into a shortage of capacity some time within the next five years . Where you will see the problems are during peak loadings , and that will just mean that we will have less reliable electricity than we would normally want .  GREG HOY : It 's a view heavily promoted by the carbon-exposed coal fired power industry , which generates the vast majority of the nation 's electricity .  RICHARD MCINDOE , TRUENERGY : I think there 's going to be real challenges during the peak times .  GREG HOY : The head of Australia 's largest private electricity utility , International Power , agrees .  TONY CONCANNON , EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR , INTERNATIONAL POWER ( ABC Radio , 26 May , 2011 ) : It has taken almost 50 years to build that infrastructure . You ca n't just close your eyes and wish for that all to change .  RICHARD MCINDOE : We are 's a base load supply or peak supply now , because of this uncertainty .  GREG HOY : But some in the industry say the situation is no way near so dire , given sound investment over the past decade .  CARL MCCAMISH , ORIGIN ENERGY : There has been more than 10,000 megawatts of new generation in the market , which is between 20 and 25 per cent of the total existing capacity .  So that 's a pretty high replacement rate . You 'd say that that 's quite a lot of investment for a market of our size over that period of time . And right up , even through today you 've got a lot of investment going on in wind and the solar and you are seeing investment in the peaker plants .  CARL MCCAMISH : It 's not a question of power shortages . Power shortages only happen if you 've got not enough capacity in the system . In the peaker plants , the smaller plants that can ramp up and down quickly at times of peak demand - they 've been investing in and the market is projecting to invest in as well . They will cover the issue of the lights going off . ( Laughs )  GREG HOY : But coal fired power producers have much to lose and much to gain from this debate , especially the biggest and dirtiest of all - the brown coal fired Hazelwood plant in Victoria . It pumps 8 per cent of electricity into the national grid and 3 per cent of the emissions into the atmosphere . Its future under the carbon cloud , Hazelwood 's local management International Power would n't talk to 7:30 .  GREG HOY : But the company 's Australian subsidiary is seeking compensation from Government if a carbon price is imposed , claiming this would breach a Government approval in 2005 , extending the licence to operate the controversial Hazelwood power plant .  TONY CONCANNON ( ABC Radio , 26 May ) : As a result of that approval we then invested another half a billion dollars into that asset , based on that . So what we are talking about is , it 's called sovereign risk .  GREG HOY : But is it really sovereign risk when a public statement announcing the Government approval of the time specifically mentioned carbon emissions ?  " A future greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme will still apply to Hazelwood power station and could place obligations on Hazelwood 's owners additional to requirements of the deed . "  TONY WOOD , ENERGY DIRECTOR , GRATTAN INSTITUTE : Everyone in industry knows that major companies for quite some time have been factoring in a price on carbon to their major investment decisions .  GREG HOY : For how long ?  TONY WOOD : I would suggest at least 10 years .  GREG HOY : The Grattan Institute 's energy director Tony Wood spent 11 years as an executive in the power industry and three as director of the Clinton Foundation 's clean energy program .  TONY WOOD : If you are an asset owner , you do n't like change . We may see black coal generators running more than brown coal generators . We may see gas generators running .  GREG HOY : The problem is Australia 's reliance on emissions-intensive coal power is rising , as are global carbon concerns .  At business forums here and overseas there is talk of inevitable investment changes ahead .  JEREMY BENTHAN , VICE PRESIDENT , SHELL GLOBAL BUSINESS : The stresses in the energy and other related systems are real and are building , and inevitably will force transition .  GRANT ANDERSON , PARTNER , ALLENS ARTHUR ROBINSON : I think the expectation in industry is that at some stage - it may not be immediately - there will be a carbon price on carbon , so industry does plan for that in the longer term .  TONY WOOD : Companies around the world who can see the future first and get there first are the ones who are going to capitalise .  GREG HOY : The suggestion is energy companies with the most flexible and cleanest fuel sources are the best investment in the brave new carbon conscious world .  JEREMY BENTHAN : The biggest , fastest , most reliable way to start addressing emit less than half the CO2 of a coal fired power station .  GREG HOY : But coal is cheaper , so to reduce reliance on it will require a carbon price . The proposed price of $20 to $25 a tonne will make black coal power plants more productive than messier brown coal powered plants like Hazelwood , but greater investment in gas will require a bigger carbon price again .  CARL MCCAMISH : If you do want to create the significant change that comes with moving to more gas base load , then you are looking at prices that are above $20 to $25 . You are looking at $35 and above .  GREG HOY : Which would of course mean a politicians ' picnic , but would it mean the end of the world as we know it ?  Are the days of cheap power in Australia past ?  TONY WOOD : Relative to cost of living , our energy prices are going to stay relatively low . So I do n't think this is a fundamental risk to our standard of life today after significant increases recently , are at the average- the price they were as a proportion of average Australian household income about 40 years ago .  There will be pressure upward on fuel price , but seen in an overall context , and compared to other countries , Australia will remain a low to average cost country for electricity .