Heritage drunk tank of Henry Lawson redesigned
http://www.architectureanddesign.com.au/news/industry-news/heritage-drunk-tank-of-henry-lawson-redesigned

heritage drunk tank of henry lawson redesigned  a150 year-old-building in darlinghurst that was originally used to keep drunks and troublemakers off the streets - including henry lawson - will be turned into six luxury apartments .  part of the redevelopment of the caritas heath care facility in sydney , the new name will be dominion .  heritage architects nbrs+partners and group gsa architects are working on heritage house is planned to be the centrepiece of the $150-million residential development .  heritage house circa 1867  heritage house was conceived by the ' father of federation ' , sir henry parkes , as a ' safe haven ' for those caught on the town carousing - party-goers that may have been causing mischief but were not deemed hardened criminals that deserved to be thrown in gaol .  the original centre was two-storeys and had dormitory-type accommodation as well as some holding cells in the basement for those who needed to be restrained . over the years the building was remodeled , with a third storey added in 1935 .  from 1962 to facility , run by the sisters of mercy under the auspices of st vincents hospital .  computer generated image of completion  the architects are working at regenerating heritage house , as well as the site 's grand gates , palisade iron fencing and beautiful sandstone perimeter walls .  the building 's historical exteriors will be retained , and time-honoured craftsmanship and a palette of the world 's finest materials utilised .  all apartments will have balconies or terrace areas , stained timber floorboards in living areas , and extremely high ceilings ranging from 2.9-metres to 3.2-metres to accentuate the feeling of space .  " each of the six apartments in this redevelopment present their own unique style and layout which blends the craftsman-like details of the georgian era with classic contemporary features that define modern living .  " featured cornices draw your attention to the high ceilings and characteristic skirting , while architrave details frame the living room settings which feature paneled doors and elegant windowed views into the garden .