Tractor accident a farm tragedy
http://www.northernstar.com.au/news/cottonvale-man-dies-in-farming-accident/871870/

local real estate  subscribe now  the death of a man in a farming accident near tenterfield has served as a tragic reminder of the dangers of living and working on the land .  the man , 90 , was found about 11pm on monday , pinned under the wheel of his tractor which had rolled in an apple orchard at cottonvale , about 60km north of tenterfield .  the incident took the number of reported farm-related deaths in nsw to four since the beginning of the year , and to 27 nationally . in 2010 , 44 people died nationally , while a further 68 serious non-fatal injuries were reported .  tractor and quad-bike accidents account for the largest number of injuries and deaths . of the on-farm deaths recorded in 2010 , 16% were children aged 15 years and under , who died mainly as a result of drowning in dams or in cattle and sheep dips .  " these sorts of incidents are tragic , not only for the family , but also the community , " australian centre .  " we all know that living on the land is a great lifestyle , but it also has its hazards . "  mr lower said death rates caused by farming accidents had fallen 40% in the past 20 years , but more needed to be done in terms of prevention .  " most of the solutions are things that people are aware of and well familiar with , " he said .  " and ( the cottonvale accident ) does demonstrate that farmers continue to work for much longer than many other occupations , and because of the physical changes that come with aging that does create some additional risks . "  to reduce the risk of injury or death , mr lower recommended as a minimum rollover prevention structures be installed on all tractors , a crush prevention device be installed on quad-bikes , that farms construct " safe-play " areas for children under the age of five , and anyone operating farm machinery should be properly trained and supervised .  national farm safety week , aimed at improving on-farm safety , runs @ @ @