Tall tails
http://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/tall-tails-20110729-1i3nz.html

search smh :  search in :  tall tails  entertainment  date  july 29 , 2011  ( 0 )  stephanie bunbury  he was the four-legged stuff of outback legend , a knockabout loner whose human companions were the hardest of men . red dog no longer roams the top end but his story lives on in a much-loved book and now heart-warming family film .  in 1998 , popular english author louis de bernieres was invited to karratha , in australia 's iron-rich north-west , for the town 's first literary event . next day , the manager of his hotel offered to lend him his ute so he could see some of the country . karratha , in the sprawling pilbara , is that kind of place . he thought it was a detour on the grey tourist route but , as far as he could see , he was the only outsider in town . an excellent fish and chip shop in port hedland , a mere 200-odd kilometres away , was the nearest attraction .  " and on the side of that road , there 's a statue of a dog . i got out and looked at it and it said something like ' red dog 1979 , erected by his friends ' . so i thought , ' that 's really interesting , who is this red dog and why has he got a statue ? ' " when he got back to the hotel , de bernieres started asking questions .  he was directed to the local library , where clippings and a couple of booklets by local writers indicated that the immortalised red dog had been quite a tourist himself ; local legend had it that he had wandered the whole top end , with sightings reported in darwin and even as far south as perth . here was the ideal material for that children 's book his agent thought he should write . a few months later , de bernieres -- best known for writing captain corel-li 's mandolin -- came back with a laptop and set off on a tour of dots on the map where his research showed red rachel taylor with prize pooch koko .  everyone had a story , although they were generally one line long -- " remember the time red dog busted up the dog show ? " -- which meant he could embroider them as much as he liked . he only travelled for two weeks . " but that 's all you need for a little book like that , " he says . " and , of course , whilst i was there i bought lots of material about the local wildlife and the local vegetable life , so i was able to look up the various snakes and insects and plants that were there to make it look as if i knew the place better than i do . it was probably the happiest time i 've had writing a book , really , because i was driving around finding stories in the daytime -- you know -- and eating oysters in the evening . "  advertisement  red dog has now been adapted as a family movie that opens this week . with an $8 million budget supported by . the film is nominally for children , although the evidence at screenings i 've attended suggests anyone who has ever patted a dog will be scrabbling for a tissue by the end . set in a rough-as-guts pub and framed as a wake for the now-dead red dog , the stories are told as recollections by his human friends : how he once saved the life of a miner who was going to kill himself ; how he chose a travelling american as his master and refused to belong to anyone else after he died ; how he managed to hitch to the top end , presumably with paw stuck out , as a lone dog ; how a bunch of hard blokes shared responsibility for driving him hundreds of kilometres to get to a vet when he was poorly .  in the end , the film is primarily the story of these human characters . they were n't angels , obviously . anyone who has seen the 1971 classic wake in fright , which starred donald pleasence as a young teacher appalled by the brutality , bleakness and but somehow , stenders has managed to convey the roughness of the men and their lives while maintaining family friendliness ; there are no beatings , no bordellos , no swearing and not so much as the whiff of a cigarette . " when i was pitching it , " he says , " i said it was wake in fright meets pixar . "  red dog author louis de bernieres . photo : reuters  what wake in fright lamented , however , red dog celebrates . " that period setting -- in a way , it was the wild west , " stenders says . " these guys came there with the smell of money , the smell of fortune and they came from all round the world and worked in stubbies and basic work boots and terry towelling hats -- this is all pre-occupational safety , pre-sunscreen -- and they worked very , very hard . we felt we had to pay homage to that generation , so that the roughness was just colour , great texture and detail for us to work with . "  and luke ford star opposite koko , a five-year-old pure-bred red cloud kelpie . noah taylor , who plays a publican whose teeth pay their own independent homage to chad morgan , says the film shoot shared something of that atmosphere . " it was a very male world and it was a very male shoot , " he says . " there were two actresses and they had to suffer major testosterone poisoning travelling round trying to re-create ' 70s australia . it came a little too easily to a few people . " not that he thinks that was a bad thing . " there has been a kind of pansification of the australian male -- a general softening of the western world , really . in a way , it 's good to hark back to our roots . "  but as in lassie or rin tin tin , the human storylines are transformed from soapy humdrum by its animal hero , a marvellous beast that seems to understand everything without needing to speak : who needs help , who should not be trusted , who needs do . you ca n't beat a good dog story , even if there is a distinct shagginess to some of these ones . de bernieres says he doubts red dog really went to perth . " somebody told me that , so i put it in anyway , " he says .  but according to nelson woss , the film 's producer , it is incontrovertible fact ; he talked to the bloke who took him there in his truck , left him for a few minutes to run around cottesloe beach and then thought he 'd lost him . " he searched all next day and decided he had to go back to dampier without him ; he said it was the worst trip he 'd ever made , " woss says . " but when he got to dampier , red dog had beaten him to it . true story ! ' ' true enough , anyway . ' ' it 's a bit like ned kelly ; it 's very hard to differentiate truth from myth . ' '  it certainly has the power of german high-school students as part of the berlin international film festival , where films are screened without subtitles as an exercise in learning english . most of those kids must have found the accents impenetrable but it did n't matter : the tissues were duly passed along the rows . afterwards , i was one of a sprinkling of adults in a shuttle bus waiting to be taken back to the main festival centre . a man was walking his dog - a black dog but never mind - on the nature strip . all eyes turned towards him as he sniffed the smells dogs like . there was silence . then one girl piped up - ' ' ein hund ! ' ' - and the whole bus sighed .  red dog was a kelpie . on screen , he is played by charismatic hound koko and a number of stand-in and second-unit red kelpies who could pass muster for the star at a middle distance . they may be loveable on screen but working with dogs , taylor says , is not easy . ' ' i 'm ' ' he says darkly . ' ' i 'm a dog person . i do n't want to disparage the entire dog community but their cleverness is overrated - and the same goes for dolphins . i 've worked with both . ' '  stenders is more generous . there were times , he says , when koko simply ran out of enthusiasm .  ' ' i keep on saying that working with koko is exactly the same as working with an actor , ' ' he says . ' ' each actor is very different , every performer has a different way of presenting material . some actors do really well on their first take , some do well on their third take - and koko was the same . he got tired . he was a very spontaneous actor - and he was acting .  ' ' so he was actually wonderful . i always say 99 per cent of directing is casting and if we 'd picked the wrong dog , we would have been in trouble . ' '  but dogs , human actors do n't share . koko mingled easily ; his trainer set him loose on the set early so he would be comfortable with lights , cameras and the crew . but they found that they had to be careful not to make sudden loud noises , which meant that movements such as clapping had to be mimed and dubbed afterwards . ' ' and the yells - a lot of men in a pub yelling is a very big , aggressive , loud sound , ' ' woss says .  but he did enjoy being the centre of attention , to the extent that he disliked any other dog being around to steal his limelight . he also knew when the camera was on him . woss and koko are now lifetime companions ; he adopted koko after filming . ' ' now i take the dog for a walk down hastings street in perth , where the mall is , and he really lights up . i think he thinks it 's a really big sequence that kriv is directing with a lot of extras , ' , i like koko but there is a certain vanity in that dog . ' '  according to woss , koko 's great asset was that he had trained in a way that avoided coercion . ' ' red dog , the real red dog , was very independent and did his own thing , ' ' he says . ' ' when you train a dog , you can train it in a certain way where he 's very alert , waiting for a command - and it is very noticeable when a dog is like that . now , the performance koko gives , he 's taking commands but he looks like a dog making up his mind . koko was trained that way . ' '  all this was exactly in keeping with what drew de bernieres to the story . he was brought up with dogs - in fact , he was taught to walk by the family golden retriever , hanging on to the yellow scruff of the dog 's neck as he took his first baby steps . ' ' he 'd plod ' ' de bernieres says . ' ' and then , when i could n't sleep at night , i 'd go and sleep with him in the dog basket . ' '  now he prefers cats , if only by a whisker . what he immediately liked about red dog , he says , was what he saw as his feline side .  ' ' this was a dog , i think , with the temperament of a slightly stroppy cat , ' ' he says . ' ' you know what i mean ? most dogs are terribly eager to please , to the point of being embarrassing . but red dog was fairly aloof . he accepted what people gave him , i think , with some dignity , as if it were his right . he treated people as equals , which dogs are n't supposed to do . ' ' so he suited the landscape and those rough , tough miners ? de bernieres laughs . ' ' exactly . a pioneering dog has to have a pioneering attitude . ' '