Son jailed after mum dies in crash
http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/mums-crash-death-sons-punishment/921114/

Related Items  Local Real Estate  Subscribe Now  THE guilt of his mother 's death will be an " ongoing punishment " for Rodney Steven Demaine , a Maroochydore court has heard .  Demaine , 23 , pleaded guilty at Maroochydore District Court yesterday to one count of dangerous operation of a motor vehicle causing death while under the adverse affect of an illicit substance .  Judge John Robertson handed down a three-and-a-half-year sentence , suspended after 12 months for an operational period of four years . Demaine was also disqualified from driving for three years .  The charges stemmed from a single-vehicle crash at Burnside on November 2 last year , which resulted in the death of his mother , Vivianne Rose Maria Soria .  He was found to have drugs and alcohol in his system .  At yesterday 's sentencing the courtroom was packed with family and friends in support of Demaine .  As the verdict was reached and he was ushered from the court , Demaine 's eyes swelled with tears as he turned to his heard that on the evening of November 2 , last year , Demaine had been arguing with his mother in the car when it smashed into a power pole at the corner of Windsor and Perwillowen roads .  Ms Soria was 49 , and left behind partner of 25 years Peter Demaine and their children including Demaine , his twin Derek , Jacqueline , 25 , Christopher , 20 and Robert , 15 .  The court heard there was tension within the family on the day following a Melbourne Cup party at the Commercial Hotel on Currie St , Nambour , which was attended by Demaine , his siblings and his mother . Alcohol was consumed by both Demaine and his mother .  At one point , Ms Soria and son Derek became involved in a heated argument , at which point Derek left the hotel . Demaine and Ms Soria left some time later to return to Demaine 's residence .  There , the argument between Derek and Ms Soria began again , until she and Demaine left in his car . He was observed spinning Soria just moments before the fatal crash .  It was also heard that Demaine had cannabis in his system from the night before . A BAC reading taken hours after the crash registered 0.107% . A medical report contained in the statement of facts said it was likely to be 0.130% at the time of the incident .  In sentencing , Judge Robertson took into account Demaine 's age , remorse and intentions to plead guilty from the start .  " Your guilt is a form of ongoing punishment , " said Judge Robertson who called it a tragedy beyond words .