Qantas pilot alleges penalties for refusing extra time
http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2011/s3281581.htm

KAREN BARLOW : Qantas says as the pilot informed the airline he was not prepared to work as expected on the flight to Melbourne , so Qantas informed him he was not required on the flight .  If there was an emergency mid flight and the plane was diverted , Captain Anderson 's action would have made him unavailable to fly further .  ( EXTRACT FROM QANTAS STATEMENT )  The pilot has not been stood down . He indicated to Qantas he was not prepared to work as required , so was replaced for that trip only .  ( END OF STATEMENT )  KAREN BARLOW : Captain Steve Anderson will now be a passenger on the Melbourne bound flight he was supposed to fly . Qantas says it does n't want any industrial action to delay passengers .  ( EXTRACT FROM QANTAS STATEMENT )  Ultimately this is an issue about customer care and Qantas was not prepared to pay Captain Anderson his full and very extensive wages to perform partial duties .  ( END OF STATEMENT )  KAREN .  NICK XENOPHON , INDEPENDENT SENATOR : This pilot is acting in accordance with the rules of the umpire , Fair Work Australia , it is a protected industrial action and if he 's going to be penalised as a result of doing what the umpire says he can do , well , that seems completely unfair .  KAREN BARLOW : Qantas also denies a Perth-based licensed engineer was stood down last Friday for also taking work to rule industrial action that involved reading instruction manuals twice .  ( EXTRACT FROM QANTAS STATEMENT )  Qantas was not prepared to accept that he was going to perform partial duties while maintaining an aircraft - which is a potential safety issue .  ( END OF STATEMENT )  KAREN BARLOW : Qantas subsidiary , Jetstar , is also fighting problems with foreign staff . Lateline revealed allegations this week that Jetstar has been exploiting foreign cabin crews , demanding they work 20 hour shifts , exposing them to fatigue .  Independent Senator Nick Xenophon now wants to change the law .  NICK XENOPHON : If it carrier , the rules that apply to flight crew , to cabin attendants , should be the same . This bill would provide that level of protection .  KAREN BARLOW : Jetstar says the private Senator 's bill is not needed . It says the same duty limitations already apply under Jetstar 's fatigue management system and the law for all cabin crew regardless of where they 're based .  Karen Barlow , Lateline .  Do you have a comment or a story idea ? Get in touch with the Lateline team by clicking here .