Woolies' supermarket boss Foran checks out
http://www.smh.com.au/business/woolies-supermarket-boss-foran-checks-out-20110729-1i3te.html

Search smh :  Search in :  Woolies ' supermarket boss Foran checks out  Eli Greenblat  The well-regarded boss of Woolworths food , liquor and petrol business , Greg Foran , has resigned from the company after missing out on the top job .  Staff at the flagship Woolworths supermarket operation - which accounts for more than $36 billion in annual sales or two-thirds of total group revenue - were told of the executive 's plan to depart this afternoon with word quickly spreading through the investment community .  Mr Foran 's shock resignation comes as Woolworths is engaged in a pitched battle for shoppers with smaller rival Coles , with the Wesfarmers unit outperforming Woolworths in terms of sales over the last nine quarters .  The executive 's exit also comes less than three months before newly named Woolworths chief executive Grant O'Brien takes the reins from current incumbent Michael Luscombe .  Advertisement  Investors and analysts were surprised in April when Woolworths named Mr O'Brien has Mr Luscombe 's successor , with Mr Foran widely tipped as the supermarket group .  Mr O'Brien was formerly the chief operating officer , Australian food and petrol for Woolworths .  New career path  Woolworths said in a statement this afternoon that Mr Foran had resigned from his position and would be leaving Woolworths within the next few months to pursue new career opportunities .  Mr Foran had served in several senior roles at Woolworths for ten years , including as general manager of the Dick Smith electronics chain , general manager of BIG W and most recently as head of the company 's supermarket division .  Woolworths has undertaken an extensive global and local search for his successor . This search was now complete and the company will make an appropriate announcement in due course , the statement said .  " I thank Greg for his enormous contribution and for enabling a smooth transition to a new management team . The Woolworths team wishes Greg all the best for his next challenge , " CEO designate Mr O'Brien said .  This month Woolworths reported comparable sales growth of 4 per cent for its Australian supermarkets the 2010-11 financial year . By comparison , Coles posted quarterly sales growth of 5.3 per cent growth and full-year sales growth of 6.3 per cent .  As part of a wider reshuffle of leading Woolworths executives announced this afternoon Steve Greentree , general manager Woolworths Liquor , will be appointed to the Woolworths management board . Mr Greentree will report directly to Mr O'Brien .  The management changes will also see David Chambers , who leads the New Zealand supermarkets business as managing director of Progressive Enterprises , also report directly to Mr O'Brien .  Luke Dunkerley has been appointed general manager consumer and corporate marketing for the Woolworths group . Elizabeth Ryley has been appointed general manager , marketing , for Woolworths supermarkets Australia . Ms Ryley was previously marketing and communications manager for Progressive Enterprises in New Zealand .