Preview: Super Mario 3D Land
http://www.capsulecomputers.com.au/2011/09/preview-super-mario-3d-land/

Gamers are a passionate bunch , and will dispute everything . But if anyone ever tries to tell you that Super Mario 64 was n't a revolutionary game , I want you to Goomba-stomp them for me . Then run away with your hands over your ears .  Having played , finished and loved every single Mario platformer Nintendo has produced , I was stoked for the opportunity to get my hands on the newest adventure , which we all knew was gon na be awesome anyway . Despite the super clunky title , Super Mario 3D Land is likely to be responsible for shifting ludicrous numbers of 3DS systems leading up to Christmas .  If you 've played a Mario game before -- and I refuse to accept that anyone has n't -- you already know the basics . But there 's more to it than what you expect .  As I started off by saying , Mario 64 was a revolution at the time ; the switch to open-world 3D environments was unprecedented , and it sparked a new direction for the could have taken . Around the same time , Crash Bandicoot emerged on the Playstation , rejecting the open world design in favour of linear levels that flow like a traditional platformer , while allowing for 3D movement .  Super Mario 3D Land follows Crash 's style , so in a way it feels to me like an alternate-reality Mario 64 . While the 3D games were fantastic , I always found it hard to get into the flow in an open 3D environment . 3D Land reduces the freedom of exploration to create more structured , flowing gameplay . It mostly consists of 2D levels , sidescrolling left to right , with verticality as per usual , but now it allows movement towards and away from the screen . It 's a little hard to explain the significance , but it drastically changes the flow of play : levels usually follow a linear 2D path , allowing a small amount of 3D movement away from that axis . From time to time it will open up into a small open area , before narrowing back onto a single path flow of a 2D platformer but allow multiple pathways , hidden areas and items to be accessible through the background/foreground .  This of course makes it perfect for Mario 's transition into the much-hyped third dimension ; with gameplay literally going in and coming out of the screen , it looks and plays brilliantly in 3D . Bullet Bills fly towards the screen , there 's a new type of piranha plant that spits ink all over your view for a short time , and as Nintendo likes to spruik about , it actually is much easier to judge distance in 3D . I was sceptical about the idea , but my cynicism quickly melted away on having tried it . I hate dying in games because I overshoot an enemy or underestimate a gap . That frustration is all but gone , as your distance judgements feel strangely instinctive .  Another common gripe people have with 3D platformers is controlling the camera . Somehow , the industry has still not quite perfected the method of presenting game worlds in third person . There is no bigger frustration than , or obscures the other side of the gap . Mario Galaxy tried to remedy this by wrenching the camera from the player 's control at crucial moments , pulling back to give the optimal view of the area and allowing players to focus on the actual task .  Super Mario 3D Land does this the whole time . Players are unburdened by camera controls ; rather , your vantage point sits constantly at a perfect isometric angle , like someone 's pulled it up a bit from its usual perch in a 2D platformer . If Mario does happen to wander behind some scenery , as he 'll often be enticed to do for hidden items and areas , his silhouette will be visible through it , showing where he is and what he 's doing . Think Super Mario Sunshine , without the pointless iris-in effect . We 'll have to trust the designers to not put anything too dangerous back there .  Elements of most Mario platformers are apparent , but its strongest influence is Super Mario Bros. 3 , arguably the pinnacle of the 2D with a flagpole , complete with a set of stairs or a platform nearby to allow Mario to gain some extra points by aiming for the top . The last level of each world takes place on flying airships , and culminate in a boss battle with one of Bowser 's kids . And of course , Tanooki Mario returns .  Tanooki Mario , the raccoon suit you for some reason collect from a leaf , was iconic to SMB3 , but has n't been seen since . Its reappearance was one of the first things the world learned about 3D Land , when it was revealed in the logo . Its use in the new game amounts to pretty much what it did in SMB3 -- use it to whap your enemies or coin boxes , or flutter it during a fall to slow your descent . In practise , it unfortunately now has little effect on your falling speed , reducing its usefulness somewhat .  Its most useful power in its last appearance was flight . Get a decent run up , and you could effectively fly a 3D environment has apparently stumped even the developers . It was announced recently that all Tanooki Flights have been grounded in Super Mario 3D Land , although it should n't be unreasonable to expect that it still provides a longer or higher jump , with enough speed built up .  I was excited about this game by default , and my time with it has increased that excitement tenfold . Screw the third instalments of Battlefield , Killzone and Modern Warfare -- this is my most anticipated title for the remainder of 2011 . Nintendo never fail to creatively utilise their own hardware ( eventually ) , and Super Mario 3D Land is probably the strongest reason yet to buy a 3DS .  Nintendo are stepping up the game now , this looks fantastic , always loved this kind of Mario game more than the ( still amazing ) Galaxy style titles .  http : **27;256;TOOLONG Michael Irving  Yeah , the linear platform sections in the Galaxy games were some of the best parts .  Personally , I do n't think the Vita has anything been available at or near launch , Nintendo probably would n't have had to drop the price and the 3DS would n't have looked like it was n't working .