Brighton Rock DVD Review
http://www.capsulecomputers.com.au/2011/09/brighton-rock-dvd-review/

Too often , film adaptations or remakes are compared to their original inspiration instead of judged as a standalone work . The film must always be better than or worse than the original , but no matter what happens it is always defined by what came before .  Such is the case with Rowan Joffe 's Brighton Rock , a film that must live up to a 1938 Graham Greene novel and a 1947 John Boulting film of the same name . Most critics have stated the 2010 film as a remake falls short of the original ; I have n't seen the original nor have I read the novel , but I most definitely must say that overall , Brighton Rock was a disappointment .  Plot  The narrative tells of a thug named Pinkie Brown , who is a member of the Spicer 's gang . When the rival mob in Brighton , run by Colleoni , kills Brown 's boss , he seeks revenge in the form of killing a member of Colleoni 's gang . However , a young waitress named in order to keep her quiet . Rose 's boss becomes increasingly suspicious of their relationship , and soon it becomes difficult to tell whether Pinkie is falling for Rose or if she is just a part of his plan .  As far as narratives go , Brighton Rock is one part crime-thriller and one part film/neo-noir ( depending on how technical you want to get ) . The film begins wonderfully , and ends with a twist that , really , is n't a twist because any half-intelligent member of the audience would see it coming . However , this ' twist ' is what ends up breaking the film and sending it on a downward spiral , just like its protagonist .  Watching the film , it 's hard to believe Joffe had two previous storylines to work with because the film seemed to disintegrate from the halfway mark . With the story already mostly formulated from the novel and 1947 film , all Joffe had to do was work through the plot and make it a believable yet tragic tale . What resulted instead was an a gangster and his lover -- even the script itself was unengaging and felt forced at times .  Characters  The main character in the film is Pinkie -- an antihero , if I had to box him into a category . Pinkie is cold and calculating , but ( unlike most other antiheroes ) there is so little of his personality or actions that are actually relatable . In the beginning of the film , Pinkie 's motives behind his actions were clear and understandable ; as the film progressed , he became more distant from the audience . His character could have used far more character development -- the film failed to really delve into his life , though and thus left us with a very two-dimensional gangster . You have to wonder why he 's even the protagonist when there 's no sense of his progression throughout the entire film .  Even if the character development was poor , Pinkie 's character could have still been redeemed if Sam Riley had a real connection with his character . Suffice to say , he did n't . of Pinkie Brown , rather than connecting with his motivations and understanding what makes his character tick .  However , Pinkie is a right treat compared to Rose , the waitress he pursues . Carey Mulligan was originally offered the role of Rose , but when she turned it down it was offered to Andrea Riseborough . Rose is a shy , blithering girl who falls in love with Pinkie and must fight against what her boss and friends tell her about him . While she starts out very sweet and innocent , the only way to describe her as the film progresses is " more and more irritating " ... seriously . Rose falls in love with Pinkie after a few days ( more out of desperation and the fact that a man is paying attention to her than genuine ' love ' , in my opinion ) and then becomes a pathetic puppy that follows him around for the rest of the film .  Riseborough 's performance was more disconnected than Riley 's , and it definitely felt as though her casting in this role was all ( which can not be revealed because they would most definitely be spoilers ) , but for the most part her portrayal of Rose was awkward and inconsistent . Also , it did n't help that Riley and Riseborough seemed to have no chemistry at all between them .  The true shining star of the film however , is Helen Mirren 's character , Ida . Ida is a wonderful mother figure to Rose , while still maintaining sexy streak -- basically , she 's just Helen Mirren thrown into a gangster flick . Perhaps its Mirren 's experience , or the fact that her character was probably the most sane ( and least frustrating ) out of the three main characters , but Ida made the film 's narrative weaknesses slightly more bearable .  Visual/Audio  Despite the film 's shortcomings , what makes Brighton Rock beautiful is the visual elements and the soundtrack . From start to finish , the film 's cinematography captured me . The intense contrast in the lighting , the extreme long shots of the scenery , and the general tone of the locations were also brilliantly selected : no matter if it 's a lighthouse on top of a hill or the boardwalk , everything is a delight to look at . The costuming was also beautifully executed , with Rose and Ida 's clothing being an aesthetically pleasing representation of the setting of the film .  Soundtrack-wise , the selections were often unique and definitely captivating . During chase scenes , the music that would belt out would not be fast-paced rock music ; rather , Joffe selected a soundtrack with saxophones and drums to add to the film 's jazzy noir atmosphere .  DVD Extras  The DVD comes with so many extra goodies , they had to house it in a separate disc ( yes , Brighton Rock is a two-disc purchase ! ) . With audio commentary from the director and the editor , Joe Walker , a " making of " segment , extended interviews with Joffe , Riley , and Riseborough , deleted scenes , and even more , there sure is plenty to come back for after the credits have rolled .  Final more cons than pros . It 's definitely worth watching if you 're in for a visual treat , but as the narrative gets shakier and Pinkie and Rose both become irritating , the cinematography can only do so much . The only other reason I could possibly suggest to watch it ( besides for comparison to the original ) is for Helen Mirren -- I know she 's popular with the gents , and two hours of Mirren is worth it no matter how mediocre the film is.