Early education push for disadvantaged children
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2011-11-01/expert-wants-disadvantaged-kids-sent-to-school-earlier/3613330

a leading educational expert is calling for children from disadvantaged backgrounds to be sent to preschool earlier .  education expert professor joseph sparling has completed several studies on the links between disadvantage and school performance and says he is convinced that children from at-risk backgrounds will perform better at school if they attend preschool from as close to birth as possible .  the federal opposition is backing the proposal and says the government should consider it .  professor sparling has spent the past three decades running the abecedarian project in the united states .  its goal has been to find ways to help children from disadvantaged backgrounds succeed in school .  he says poverty is one of the biggest barriers to achieving an education .  " well there are children in poverty , children from teen parents , children of low birth weight , children who suffer social isolation and if you have a number of those factors in your background then the odds are that you 're not going to be as likely as most other children to live up so you 're going to underachieve which is what nobody wants to happen . "  a crucial link  professor sparling is in australia working alongside academics at the university of melbourne .  in many parts of australia , the earliest a child can go to preschool is three , but most parents send their children to preschool when they are four or five .  he says those children at the greatest risk need to be sent to preschool much earlier than the standard in australia .  " for the children in greatest need ... those who have a number of risk factors all working within their families will do better if you start nearer to birth actually , so that you have a continuous program in the preschool area , " he said .  " this is not for all children , this is for children who experience the greatest risk of school failure . "  all of us are learning organisms throughout our entire life span ... and by the time children begin school , even if there is no preschool , they the school of the community and the school of the neighbourhood .  professor joseph sparling  professor sparling says preschool is a crucial link that is essential for later success in the educational system .  " well preschool helps because you begin learning from birth . we 're not on hold , you know , starting from birth . all of us are learning organisms throughout our entire life span , " he said .  " and by the time children begin school , even if there is no preschool , they 've already been to the school of the home and the school of the community and the school of the neighbourhood .  " all those experiences , going to the library with your parents , reading books with your parents , learning to sing songs , learning to count and all of those things , that 's a lot of learning that 's happened before school occurs .  " what preschool tries to do is to make sure all kids get that as equally as possible , rather than just the advantaged children getting proposal has support in high places , namely the federal opposition .  the opposition 's spokeswoman for childcare and early learning , sussan ley , says the early years of a child 's life are " critical " .  " what we 've got is a government with a very rigid , one-size-fits-all model , saying 15 hours of preschool for every four year old and then the three year olds and the two year olds that might need help are missing out and could certainly do with this funding , " she said .  dr frances press from charles sturt university in bathurst is also an expert on early childhood education .  she also supports calls for extra preschool to be made available for disadvantaged children .  " i think that the promise of the federal government for one year of preschool for the year before school is an improvement in some ways on the current situation , but it 's certainly not in keeping with international benchmarks , nor research that indicates that two years of preschool before school starts is better for children @ @ @ @ @