Man on trial for murder over a drug debt
http://www.watoday.com.au/wa-news/man-on-trial-for-murder-over-a-drug-debt-20111114-1nff0.html

Search watoday :  Search in :  Man on trial for murder over a drug debt  A Perth drug dealer murdered a man who called him a dog and owed him less than $1000 by shooting him in the head at close range , a Perth court has heard .  The 33-year-old accused man can not be named for legal reasons but is standing trial in the WA Supreme Court accused of murdering 39-year-old Mario Perrin .  In his opening address , prosecutor Justin Whalley said the accused man shot Mr Perrin in the head at his Dianella home , in Perth 's north , in October last year over a drug debt .  Mr Whalley said the accused first visited Mr Perrin 's house on October 18 and smashed the door open to steal some items , including two ornamental swords and a television projector . But the accused did not think that was enough to settle the debt , he said .  Advertisement  The accused and Mr Perrin then exchanged a series of text messages and agreed to  Mr Whalley said the pair shared a " simmering mutual hostility " and that during their heated text messages Mr Perrin signed his own death warrant by calling the accused a dog .  The accused went to the house armed with a gun and a friend named Chad John James , Mr Whalley said .  Mr Perrin had his two brothers and a nephew with him at the house in case the situation escalated , but they were in another room and did not witness the shots .  Mr Whalley said the accused fired at least three shots , including one at close range to Mr Perrin 's head , before fleeing .  Mr Perrin died in hospital about 1am on October 24 .  The accused turned himself in to police on October 26 while Mr James was apprehended by police a few weeks later but was not charged .  However , the accused 's lawyer , Colin Lovitt , argued Mr James told a lawyer he had fired the shots .  He said Mr Perrin and his relatives , who were armed the accused once he was inside the house .  Mr Lovitt told the jury they should put aside any pre-conceived notions about his client and others involved in the case , many of whom were drug users .  He said it was easy to assume a drug dealer would be guilty of such a crime , but told the jury they should listen to all the evidence .