Time to look at GST, says tax expert
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2013/06/18/time-to-look-at-gst-says-tax-expert/

time to look at gst , says tax expert  the government has failed to implement the gst earlier because it feared losing the polls , says jennifer chang , senior executive of pricewaterhousecoopers tax services .  kuala lumpur : the goods and services taxes has been " misunderstood " by the public , a tax expert said today , stressing that there was a need to relook the controversial system now that polls were over .  " all countries in asia have implemented the gst except myanmar and malaysia . this is not a good comparison for us to make , " said jennifer chang , senior executive of pricewaterhousecoopers tax services at the perdana leadership foundation ceo forum 2013 .  chang said the gst was the only way in which the government could ensure all its citizens paid taxes evenly .  " only one million out of 29 million malaysians pay taxes now . all those people driving the big , beautiful cars -- some of them are probably evading taxes , and the gst is the most efficient way of said the government had failed to " market " the gst effectively enough to the people , and this was why it had dragged its feet in the implementation .  " the problem of not implementing it faster was because of the general election . in australia , after the government implemented the gst , they lost the election , " she said , to laughs from the audience .  but now that the polls were over , the time was ripe to talk about the gst seriously , she said .  " gst has been misunderstood by the public , and we need to properly market these taxes so that the public understand what it is all about , " said chang .  she rubbished the misconception that the price of goods would increase dramatically in the wake of the gst , saying that common goods such as milk would be exempted from the tax .  " this tax exemption will ensure it does n't hurt the common person so much , " she said .  comments  readers are required to have a welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language or defamatory words . fmt also holds the right to remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.