Lower capex needs in next 2 years, says Green Packet
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/751908

Lower capex needs in next 2 years , says Green Packet  PETALING JAYA ( June 25 , 2013 ) : Green Packet Bhd will spend less on capital expenditure ( capex ) this year as it focuses more on technology upgrades rather than infrastructure building , to make the transition to 4G long-term evolution ( LTE ) .  Its heavy investments into building infrastructure for its network has been equated with the continued losses the group has posted at net earnings level .  Last year was the first time the group registered positive earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( ebitda ) .  Its founder and CEO Puan Chan Cheong declined to reveal capex numbers budgeted , but assured that it had sufficient cash to fund it .  Green Packet has a structured investment funding of US$51 million from a consortium led by investment firm Kendall Court and Leafgreen Capital , vendor financing , disposal of non-core assets and internal funds for this , he said .  Between 2008-2012 , Green Packet spent about RM200 million to RM250 give guidance on when the group would be able to start giving out dividends .  " While in the short- to medium-term , we do seem to fall short of our target , in the long term ( five to 10 years ) , we are pretty much on track to achieve our goals for the group.This is normal with the ups and downs of the business , " Puan said .  He said the group expects to improve its financial performance this year as its hardware segment continues to sell very well and it continues to add on new subscribers . Its shipments of hardware for the first quarter of 2013 was 50% more than the corresponding quarter in 2012 .  Puan said last year , only about 45% of its subscriber base was on contract . Currently , 70% of them have signed up . The group had a subscriber base of 517,000 as at end-2012 .  Puan also said that his appointment as the group 's main subsidiary Packet One Networks ( Malaysia ) Sdn Bhd 's ( P1 ) CEO was a move .  " I 'm probably a better butt-kicker and a tougher boss . I want to address certain operational gaps and improve the company 's financial performance . "  Puan added that long-time ( P1 ) CEO Michael Lai had done a " fantastic job " in building up the company , and that the transition had been planned for a while now , after Lai voiced his wish to take a break .  Puan has been involved directly in the running of P1 since the start of the year . Puan takes over Lai 's role from July 1 .  On talks of a potential sale of P1 , Puan said while he is open to " strategic options " , what is more important in the next 18 months is to focus on operational and financial improvements for the subsidiary .