SPYSHOTS: Is this the new Peugeot 308 Sedan?
http://paultan.org/2013/09/19/spyshots-peugeot-308-sedan/

SPYSHOTS : Is this the new Peugeot 308 Sedan ?  This is the first time we 've seen this prototype on test . It appears to have the new Peugeot family front-end , and judging from its size , it appears to be some kind of C-segment sedan . Might we be looking at a Peugeot 308 sedan on test , or perhaps the new Peugeot 408 ?  Other than the outline of the front grille and bumper , there are some other details peeking through the heavy zebra-like disguise . We know the headlamps have integrated daytime running lights , as those are peeking through , and from the rear angle we can see bits of the tail lamp design , which look like they 're lit up with LED technology .  This car is n't to be confused with the Peugeot 301 , which is a ' conquest car ' , Peugeot 's term for entry-level cars aimed at increasing market share in emerging markets such as BRIC countries . The incrementing number method of naming models are now gone -- the ' 1 ' suffix being conquest cars , while models with ' 8 ' at the end of the numbering badge are premium cars .  The previous-generation 308 actually had two different sedans built on it . One was a 308 Sedan , and another was a larger 408 , which was based on the 308 . We 've covered both cars before in our previous posts , but only the 408 is on sale in Malaysia . Theophilus Chin rendered a Peugeot 308 sedan earlier this month -- see how one could look like in the gallery below .  After dabbling for years in the IT industry , Paul Tan initially began this site as a general blog covering various topics of personal interest . With an increasing number of readers paying rapt attention to the motoring stories , one thing led to another and the rest , as they say , is history . An avid electronic gadget aficionado as well as big-time coffee lover , he 's also the executive producer of the Driven motoring TV programme .  But how is this new Peugeot 308 Ford Focus and VW Golf ? ? ? You can only sell a Peugeot in Malaysia la , the rest of the world dislike Peugeot junks . Not even the French prefer a Japanese half blood like Renault over Peugeot .  308 ? my suggestion for present 408 .... do someting with the back lights ... make them bigger . everytime i wanted to consider about this car , i stay back because of the backlights ... even PREVE looks nicer from behind .... you know what i mean ...  You can either post as a guest or have an option to register . Among the advantages of registering is once a name has been registered , a guest can not post using that name . If you have an account , please login before commenting . If you wish to have a profile photo next to your name , register at Gravatar using the same e-mail address you use to comment .