No fish story
http://www.themalaysianinsider.com/features/article/no-fish-story

no fish story  published : 9 september 2013 10:22 am  affected modern gastronomy aside , the concept of feeding the world has changed drastically .  it has grown from a romantic , albeit naive , notion into a mortifying epiphany of sorts . a little like when you realise that the extinction of sharks , thanks to our reckless indifference , has opened the doors to the global domination of the rabidly propagative ( and highly predatory ) giant humboldt squid . ( and while i 'm all for a little grilled squid from time to time ; i want my goby , grouper and four-finger threadfin as well . )  the fear of collapsing ecosystems notwithstanding , the more immediately alarming truth to haunt my recurrent gastro hallucinations is that in a rapidly populated earth -- 7 billion and counting -- a sustained majority of the civilised market has developed a somewhat ravenous penchant for seafood .  according to the united nations ' the state of world fisheries and aquaculture 2012 report , fish affords about 3 billion of us with 4.3 billion people with about 15% of such protein .  all in all , we are looking at about 148 million tonnes of fish ( in 2010 , that had a total value of us$217.5 billion ) , of which about 128 million tonnes were used as food for people , with preliminary data for 2011 indicating an increased production of 154 million tonnes , of which 131 million tonnes were destined as food .  and before we start excusing ourselves from the equation , let us recognise that singapore is one of the biggest seafood consumers in asia pacific , devouring an average of 100,000 tonnes of seafood each year , based on studies by the world wide fund for nature ( wwf ) .  now , there 's nothing wrong with fishing per se ; it is fishing with the need to sustain not life but a lifestyle that has muddied the waters .  making it count  like overfishing , particularly from over-exploited and poorly managed fisheries , by-catch ( the netting of unwanted marine creatures while fishing for a specific species ) remains such industries is far from a realistic resolution .  as part of a global push to promote real alternatives , experts have placed their faith in sustainable farming . this has its own set of environmental risks , but , thankfully , there are aquaculture industries committed to ensuring optimal environmental , social and economic sustainability leading by example .  salmon , though , represents the most efficient use of marine raw materials for food production . in fact , when it comes to feed-to-meat conversion , the fish is twice as efficient as pig or poultry .  add that to the quality proffered by leading producers like norway and it would be easy to fathom the constant growth in consumption . to wit , according to the norwegian seafood council ( nsc ) , seafood from norway 's model farms is an increasingly popular choice among singaporeans .  import of norwegian salmon alone has been increasing at an average of 17% a year since 2005 , which equates to 6,343 tonnes in 2012 ( up from 2005 's haul of just 2,685 tonnes ) .  's growing appetite . but are the advantages lost in the influx ? compared to last year 's estimates , singapore imported just three tonnes of halibut compared to 793 tonnes of trout and around 7,353 tonnes of salmon .  closer to home  still , progress made in eating local as part of efforts to reduce our carbon footprint has been encouraging . major supermarkets are keeping up efforts , partnering with local fish farmers ' cooperatives , as well as acquiring fish from nearby malaysia , indonesia and thailand .  in september 2011 , for example , cold storage became the first supermarket to roll out a sustainable seafood initiative . " ( it ) was also the first supermarket to start a ' no shark 's fins ' policy in all the cold storage and market place stores in singapore , " said a spokesperson for the company , who added that , as a member of the wwf singapore sustainable seafood group , cold storage is committed to improve how it sources sustainable seafood and promote responsible consumption in singapore .  in addition , the sea , now a main international certification project for products originating from both sustainable fisheries and aquaculture .  meanwhile , all fish supplied to fairprice finest and fairprice xtra stores are tagged with qr codes , which customers can scan for instructions on how to best prepare the fish . these qr-coded fish are sold under the brand the fish farmer , which is owned by the metropolitan fishery group ( mfg ) , and includes singapore farmed grey mullet , milk fish and black tilapia , as well as farmed california bass , seven-star sea perch and spottail bass from taiwan .  mfg also has a new local farm rearing red and silver snapper and rabbit fish , which a fairprice spokesperson confirmed will be ready next year . another local farm , rong yau fisheries , supplies the supermarket chain with golden pomfret , live seabass and pearl grouper .  others like barramundi asia proffer a select range . established in 2007 , it is the first eu certified fish farm in southeast asia , and the first in singapore to grow barramundi in large of the main island .  " the price is half of what the australian air-flown product is ; therefore we can price it accordingly on our menus , " shared executive chef peter rollinson of the halia at singapore botanic gardens .  the australian native also highlighted the fact that the fish arrive at the restaurant the day they are harvested . " they ca n't get any fresher than that . and texture and taste is on par with the australian product . "  the fish was also a recent highlight in the singapore farm fresh edition of project food prints by the halia group , in the third installation of a six-part dinner series aimed at encouraging transparency from farm to fork . rollinson affirmed that the said barramundi will also remain on the menu , joining other sustainable ingredients , such as prawns from spencer gulf in south australia .  urban enterprise  it may have begun as a backyard experiment of sorts , but two-and-a-half-year-old onhand agrarian has quickly grown into a uniquely viable local enterprise , harvesting an organic ecology of some has been dubbed an " integrated multi-trophic recirculating aquaculture system " , or imtras , for tropical marine species . the aim is to harvest seafood more efficiently , humanely , cleanly and profitably .  " we will make seafood so cheap , only the rich will go fishing , " runs the tag by director and founder shannon lim on its facebook page .  but the wonderful irony of this system is its ability to turn an understanding of natural waste into a winning business model . at a talk last year , lim shared how it worked : " the weird thing about farming fish is that the more s**t something eats , the more valuable it becomes . so fish that do n't eat any s**t are worth about s$20 a kilogramme , and then you have the crustaceans that eat the fish 's ( droppings ) that are worth about s$40 a kilogramme . eventually , you end up with urchins that eat a lot of s**t that are worth s$80 a kilogramme . "  this is not a new concept . but the is that for the price of producing one type of fish , lim has proven that onhand agrarian can safely produce a platter , from quality organic grouper to crab , lobster and prawn .  please refrain from nicknames or comments of a racist , sexist , personal , vulgar or derogatory nature , or you may risk being blocked from commenting in our website . we encourage commenters to use their real names as their username . as comments are moderated , they may not appear immediately or even on the same day you posted them . we also reserve the right to delete off-topic comments