The bean belt
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/eat-drink/article/the-bean-belt

if you paid attention during geography lessons at school , you might remember the tropic of cancer and the tropic of capricorn . while also titles of once-banned novels by author henry miller , these tropics are really circles of latitude on earth marking the most northerly and southerly positions the sun may appear directly overhead .  so that takes care of pirates and sex . but why are these imaginary lines of great interest to coffee lovers worldwide ?  well , besides literature and navigation , the area bounded by the tropics also forms a band known as the bean belt . this region offers some of the best temperature , rainfall and sunshine for coffee growing . the soil is also typically rich and porous .  here you may find the best of the world 's coffee .  " can you taste where this coffee is from ? "  to date , there are over 50 countries where coffee may be farmed but each country or region imparts their own unique characteristic to the beans due to the difference in , harvesting and processing methods also matters .  this can be rather fun for those of us who love guessing games .  discover the coffee 's origins by reading the label on your bag of beansrecently while having my usual cuppa at rawcoffee , i was asked by barista michael tan to identify the origin of my coffee , along with other caf ? regulars . some of us offered continents -- south america , central america or africa . others tried to be more specific naming countries or even specific regions .  none of us got the answer right , but here 's a guide that may help you if you find yourself in a similar situation .  latin america ( both central and south ) is considered the juggernaut of the coffee world .  some caf ? menus provide information about the coffee 's origins and flavour profilethe coffees from this region tend to be light and tangy . this makes them perfect as a base for coffee blends . some exciting producers include panama ( famed for its geisha coffee ) , costa the japanese , who import over 80 per cent of its production ) , and guatemala .  on the flip-side , coffee-producing countries in asia offer a thicker coffee , more full-bodied and often with very distinct notes . this makes them ideal for pairing with latin american beans , to add heft to coffee blends . indonesia is the dominant player here in terms of interesting beans ; the expensive kopi luwak being the most notorious and much-maligned example .  my personal favourite is east africa . i find the coffees here to be more complex . you can get really unusual notes such as citrus , cocoa , blueberry and even scented spices here ! when in doubt , i usually guess africa though you can go deeper -- is it a kenya or more of an ethiopia ?  one of the friendliest baristas in town , tan is a fan of central american beans . coffee made with these beans tends to have a balanced acidity and sweet aftertaste .  " top of my list is coffee from el salvador and guatemala , " milk , having a very sweet taste and medium body . the latter is better as an espresso shot , syrupy with a winey flavour . "  map of the world 's coffee regions , a.k.a . " the bean belt "  world 's top coffee producers  when it comes to coffee production , most will think of latin america or even africa . so it may come as a surprise that two of the top three coffee producing countries in the world are , in fact , in asia .  coming in third place is our neighbour indonesia . some of the finest arabica beans in the world are planted in this archipelago , with different islands offering different growing conditions . for example , contrast a smoky mandheling from sumatra with its spicier , sweeter cousin from java .  fellow asean nation vietnam takes the runner-up spot . as vietnamese beans are generally not considered specialty coffee , their growing global market share ( nearly 15 per cecnt ) is largely due to robusta beans destined for use as commodity coffee . your next former french colony .  the world 's largest producer of coffee is none other than brazil . this coffee giant accounts for a third of coffee production worldwide , most of it arabica beans . ideal climate and mineral-rich soil ensure their continued dominance . brazil 's prominence also means better processing and production facilities , guaranteeing a highly consistent quality of coffee .  so , the next time you have a cuppa , why not pause and reflect on the journey the beans have taken to reach your local caf ? ? it may be as exciting a journey as the taste of your coffee .  this story was first published in crave in the print edition of the malay mail on september 6 , 2013.