World's most opulent cruise ships
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/leisure/2013/12/02/worlds-most-opulent-cruise-ships/

world 's most opulent cruise ships  cruises may have become more affordable over the past few decades with the arrival of low-end offers , known for their kitschy shows and all-you-can-eat buffets . but on the opposite end of the spectrum , certain cruise lines focus on ever more exceptional and extravagant ships for the most demanding vacationers . below is our selection of luxurious cruise ships offering a level of comfort and service worthy of a five-star hotel .  repeatedlycrystal serenity -- crystal cruises recognized by the prestigious " cond ? nast traveler reader 's choice awards , " a reference in the luxury tourism sector , the crystal serenity is manned by 655 staff members serving up to 1,070 passengers . the ship 's accommodations include 35 spacious and luxurious suites . guests can even shop while on board the ship , which includes a dior boutique .  seabourn quest -- seabourn  this luxurious cruise welcomes no more than 450 guests at a time , and its staff is comprised of nearly as many individuals ( 330 ) . the seabourn signature " suite , are particularly palatial . a private marina allows guests to enjoy water-skiing , kayaking and other water sports , while a spa ensures that guests can relax in the most luxurious way possible .  the road to mandalay -- orient express  sailing on the ayeyarwady , myanmar 's main waterway , the road to mandalay is an exclusive and rather intimate cruise ship , with room for just 100 guests . on the observation deck , tourists can admire the lush landscapes , swim in the pool or sip drinks at the bar . seven seas mariner -- regent seven seas cruises  each of the 700 guests aboard the seven seas mariner has a customized experience , as each member of the staff is responsible for the well-being of just two guests . the ship 's accommodations -- all suites -- range in size from 24 to 110 square meters and are often equipped with marble bathrooms and private balconies .  silver spirit -- silversea cruises  the 540 guests aboard the silver spirit will enjoy its numerous pools and restaurants and its two bedrooms -- one with a surface area of 120 square meters and the other at 150 square meters -- each with its own 18 sq m balcony . the most demanding guests can opt for the even larger grande suite , which one 142 sq m bedroom and a second measuring 175 square meters , in addition to a 65 sq m veranda .  sea cloud -- sea cloud  the most intimate and exclusive ship in our selection , this sailing ship can accommodate just 64 passengers in its 32 cabins . the suites , all impeccably decorated , range from around 10 to 30 square meters . guests dine in the ship 's fine restaurant and enjoy drinks in the lounge .  afprelax  comments  readers are required to have a valid facebook account to comment on this story . we welcome your opinions to allow a healthy debate . we want our readers to be responsible while commenting and to consider how their views could be received by others . please be polite and do not use swear words or crude or sexual language remove comments that violate the letter or spirit of the general commenting rules .  the views expressed in the contents are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of fmt.