Fate of farmer's hidden castle is sealed
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/fate-of-farmers-hidden-castle-is-sealed-1889090.html

fate of farmer 's hidden castle is sealed  he huffed and he puffed , but a farmer will still have to knock his house down , a court has ruled .  surrey farmer robert fidler suspected he may not receive planning permission for a mock tudor castle built on his land in salford , near redhill . so hoping to capitalise on a legal loophole , he constructed it hidden behind bales of straw and a tarpaulin , and has lived in it for four years , all the while leaving reigate and banstead council in the dark over its existence . but yesterday he lost a high court battle to prevent its demolition .  mr fidler , 61 , built the luxury four-bedroom property , complete with ramparts , turrets and cannon , over two years , and lived in it with his wife and son . he hoped to sidestep the planning system by applying for a certificate of lawfulness , sometimes applicable if no one objects to a newly built property for four years after construction . he kept the property 2006 . when mr fidler removed the bales he believed the structure would no longer be subject to planning enforcement .  but reigate and banstead council issued an enforcement notice in march 2007 requiring the castle 's demolition on grounds he had erected it without planning permission .  the high court was asked to decide whether the removal of the straw bales and tarpaulin was , in the eyes of the law , part of the building operation .  deputy high court judge sir thayne forbes said : " in my view , the inspector 's findings of fact make it abundantly clear that the erection/ removal of the straw bales was an integral -- indeed an essential -- fundamentally related part of the building operations that were intended to deceive the local planning authority and to achieve by deception lawful status for a dwelling built in breach of planning control . "  mr fidler still claims the castle is not illegal despite the ruling and pledged to take his fight to the european court of human rights if necessary . he said : " this house house that has been lovingly created . i will do whatever it takes to keep it . "  the property includes a kitchen , living room , study , shower room and toilet and separate wc .  on the first floor , there are four bedrooms and another room still being fitted as a bathroom .  after the hearing mr fidler 's solicitor , pritpal singh swarn , said an appeal was being considered : " the judge appears to have left open the big question -- when is a building substantially complete ? it is necessary for the courts to draw the line as to what constitutes a completed development . "