The best of British 10ks
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/active/7139089/The-best-of-British-10ks.html

the 10km run is the ideal distance - here are some of the nation 's finest .  short enough to whizz through in an afternoon , long enough to offer a lifetime 's satisfaction , the 10km is probably the greatest distance any weekend runner can attempt . it is a challenge everyone faces on their own terms , with endless rewards . elite or beginner , the events listed here are worthy of any athlete 's race diary this year .  1 city of lincoln 10k  a fine race past the medieval sights of lincoln that is admired by elite runners , yet is flat enough for beginners , too . feel the spirit as you fly past the 900-year-old cathedral , then sprint for a finishing line just the other side of the castle gates .  no , " wright hassall " is not a badly spelt indication of organisational chaos , it 's the sponsor 's name . this run through leamington spa 's parks is scenic and ideal for all skill levels . there 's a ? 100 first 3km is eased by a downhill romp 2km later  probably the biggest women-only 10km run in britain , it attracts up to 13,000 for sweat and high jinks . what makes this race through three south-west glasgow parks truly wonderful is not size , but an atmosphere bordering on the joyous .  star point : the route includes pollok country park , voted best in europe  you like history ? please walk this way , or more sensibly run . this course tears through britain 's historic heartland , including westminster abbey , the houses of parliament , big ben , horse guards avenue and the mall . also , it 's likely to be part of the route of the 2012 olympic marathon .  run with real beasts . this three-lap circuit of whipsnade zoo takes you past wild animal enclosures where you 'll spot lumbering rhinos , flapping flamingos and antelopes so fleet they 'll make even the fastest runner blush . entry allows you to stay all day in this bedfordshire hot spot .  star point : this race , now in its  you might stumble over the name but the course is over an incredibly smooth cycle-route , with marvellous seagoing gower peninsular views all the way . a carnival atmosphere with entertainment ( and runs ) for kids , too . also ideal for wheelchair competitors .  star point : think of this race as a fantastic day out with unparalleled views .  the machen 10k will test you with a 1,000ft climb up south wales 's hillsides . the reward at the top is a literally staggering view to the brecon beacons and beyond , good enough to bring tears to your eyes -- if you 're not weeping already .  star point : it 's all in the mind -- believe you 'll get to the top and you will  brighton rocks when 3,000 runners stream into the city for this annual celebration of fitness . the course runs along the seafront so it 's flat , there 's masses of atmosphere and it 's one of the fastest in britain ; last year 's winner notched a scary 29 minutes , four seconds . @ @ @ @ @ @