The future of the Cadbury brand revealed
http://www.utalkmarketing.com/pages/Article.aspx?ArticleID=16733

cadbury , the british chocolate manufacturer , has finally succumbed to a buyout by kraft , the american food group .  after lengthy negotiations , the us giant announced yesterday ( february 2 , 2010 ) that it had secured 71.73 per cent of cadbury shares , effectively giving it control of the company .  " together we have impressive global reach and an unrivalled portfolio of iconic brands , with tremendous growth potential , " said chief executive and chairman of kraft , irene rosenfeld .  " this combined company has a phenomenal future and i firmly believe it will deliver outstanding returns to our shareholders . "  the " combined company " status will be short lived as kraft takes control , absorbing cadbury as one brand of many in its portfolio .  the move will see the british heritage brand joining the likes of fellow chocolate brands terry 's ( chocolate orange and all gold ) , cote d'or and toberlone . kraft 's portfolio also includes coffee brands such as kenco , carte noir and maxwell house , always had a loyal following with britsh consumers and the empathy has never been higher than today . recent research from hall and partners engager found that cadbury was the second most engaging uk brand for consumers , only beaten by internet giant google .  the reason ? a radical marketing campaign embarked upon by cadbury 's marketing director , phil rumbol , to address falling sales . both the ' gorilla ' and ' eyebrows ' adverts , as created by fallon , radically lifted the profile , and consequently sales of the brand .  but what next as kraft takes control . will a british brand with almost a 200 year heritage be lost forever ?  " but it must n't be forgotten that kraft already owns chocolate brands which are well liked in the uk and well looked after by their owners , notably toblerone , terry 's chocolate orange , and milka , " he added .  " we also have to remember that it 's only a few years ago that cadbury became de-merged from cadbury schweppes , so it has n't "  bearing in mind that many kraft brands are not leaders in their category ( overall number 2 to nestle ; many ex nabisco brands ; etc ) . experts have suggested that kraft should in principle wish to exploit cadbury 's strong brand heritage .  " it should be the cadbury brands they want more than their physical assets . kraft has a very american heritage as a multiproduct food business with less of a focus upon confectionery , " professor of international marketing , escp europe , chris halliburton , told utalkmarketing .  " strong brand equity is the issue . the cadbury brand has taken decades of investment and has high consumer equity -- consistency over time is what makes successful consumer brands . "  considering the length of the buy out negotiations , it 's likely that kraft have clear brand plans for cadbury , beyond purchase . trying to americanise a quintessentially british staple , however , should be avoided .  " a company must first and foremost understand its own cultural identity as well as that of the target ,  " we would suggest a brand ambassador audit amongst key customer facing employees and a customer assessment to understand the brand differentiators of cadbury before action is taken to align or reposition the portfolio . "  he added , " the end consumer that regularly buys cadbury based on their emotional engagement to the brand will probably continue to do so unless kraft inherently changes the products that are sold under the cadbury brand .  " kraft should emphasize its corporate social responsibility programmes and benefits to the uk market in its campaign to establish trust and integrity with uk consumers . "  bearing differences in culture ( and humour ) in mind , is it likely that we will see a dumbing down of the iconic advertising that has been such a part of the cadbury brand ?  naturally that will depend kraft 's plans and the degree to which they hope to stamp their presence across cadbury . but looking at kraft 's track record it looks likely that we may never see such directional work as ' gorilla ' and ' eyebrows ' to make a point .  regardless , pr will unquestionably play a key role if a smooth transition following the buyout is to be achieved .  simon middleton , believes that pr needs to play two roles . firstly reaffirming internal senior management buy-in , which will then be translated into b2c communications .  " brand leaders consistently win out in most markets , do relatively better in recession , and show higher profitability through higher perceived quality levels and higher price premiums , " he added .  " so , the cadbury brands need leadership within the organisation -- this can be by the ceo / top management or led by the marketers , ideally both . "  middleton continued , " since brands are arguably the key asset which a company possesses and they should therefore be a top priority for the senior management and not seen as something left to the ' marketing people ' .  " they represent far more than just the name , the logo , or the advertising , but rather the embodiment of a company 's differentiation have already been made that need to be addressed with swift action .  " while the hostile takeover was unavoidable given cadbury 's stance , it has not endeared kraft to the uk public . in terms of public relations , the company is starting off on the back foot , " he said .  " public relations though have to be structured around a campaign that emphasises the benefits to the uk consumer , cadbury employees and communities that rely on cadbury as a responsible corporate citizen . "  hasenoehrl concluded with a clear warning , " the behaviour of the company as it goes through the deal execution and integration phases also has to match the campaign , as the uk consumer and citizen will be paying close attention . "  ajr  check out 12ahead , our brand new platform covering the latest in cutting-edge digital marketing and creative technology from around the globe .  12ahead identifies emerging trends and helps you to understand how they can apply to modern-day companies .  we believe 12ahead can put you and your business 12 free trial today .