Survivor recalls Llandow air disaster 60 years ago
http://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/survivor-recalls-llandow-air-disaster-1928575

survivor recalls llandow air disaster 60 years ago  wales will this week mark the 60th anniversary of the worst plane crash in the country 's history .  shares  get daily news by email  invalid e-mailthanks for subscribing ! could not subscribe , try again later  survivor recalls llandow air disaster 60 years ago  wales will this week mark the 60th anniversary of the worst plane crash in the country 's history . on the eve of the anniversary , julia mcwatt spoke to survivors , rescuers and witnesses about their memories of the llandow air disaster  on the morning of march 12 , 1950 , dubliners woke to a bright , clear , spring-like morning .  among them that day was a large contingent of welsh rugby fans , in town to watch their national team battle for the triple crown against the irish .  the match itself was a tense affair , clinched with tries from onllwyn brace and brian cresswell that secured a 10-9 win for the welsh .  as the crowds made their way airport for a flight back to wales .  spirits were high among the welsh fans , particularly for a group of eight supporters from llanharan who travelled to virtually every international .  among that party , who played together at the village 's rugby club , was melville thomas , who was 25 at the time .  " we stayed in dublin and we had two coaches to take us to see the game , " he said .  " we had wanted to look around the city so we got on the second coach which had stayed until everybody was ready to leave . everyone was in high spirits when wales won , " he said .  the group nearly missed getting on the first flight to dublin from llanharan after their taxi to the aerodrome broke down and they considered driving there and back . but the wheel was fixed and they managed to get on the flight .  mr thomas would never see his friends again .  the plane , an avro 689 tudor v which had been used in the aerodrome at an extremely low height , before the pilot reportedly tried to pull it upwards . the engines stalled and the aircraft came down at the edge of a field beside park farm , sigingstone .  the crash , which became known as the llandow air disaster , killed 75 passengers and five crew members , with only three passengers surviving .  at the time , it was the world 's worst aviation tragedy .  mr thomas , now 85 , is now the only living survivor of the disaster .  he has limited memory of the event itself , which left him unconscious for two days .  mr thomas , who still lives next to llanharan rugby club with his wife betty , had gone to the toilet at the time of the crash and had been boxed in by the metal walls . paramedics found him in the cubicle with serious injuries .  he had a fractured jaw , a broken nose , damage to his neck and cuts and bruises all over his body .  he was taken to st four months before he was allowed to return home .  " it was the cubicle which saved my life , i 'm sure . there were two nurses who looked after me constantly in the hospital and they were both lovely . but when i came round i asked where my friends were and they would not tell me that they were dead , " he said .  a plaque has been put up in llanharan rugby club for the friends which he lost and mr thomas unveiled another plaque in 1990 in sigingstone for all the victims of the tragedy .  mr thomas was told by his doctor he would not be able to go back to the quarry where he worked or ever return to playing rugby .  he was in rehabilitation for two months .  but as he slowly recovered , he kept in touch with the other two survivors , gwyn anthony and handel rogers , as well as the sister , katie crowe , who treated him in hospital , before they all died .  mr thomas says he does court investigation into the events .  " i had to go up for the court case and i went with handel and gwyn , but i was only in the dock and i could not tell them very much .  " from what i can remember , there were four extra seats put in . they were fastened down and i was in one of the seats with my mate . the other ones were the kind which fastened up and they all slipped . that 's what i think happened , " he said .  an inquiry held in may 1950 concluded that the loading conditions of the aircraft had been over the limit , as four extra seats had been put in at the back .  it was these extra seats , which had been bolted in rather than screwed in , which were the seats which mr thomas had been sitting in .  a further court case took place at cardiff magistrates court in november 1950 .  the airline was fined ? 50 for failing health and safety checks and ? 100 flight mechanic at st athan in the vale of glamorgan , was among the first rescue parties to arrive at the scene .  " i was waiting for my tea when i saw the plane come over , and i thought it was strange as it was so low , " he recalls .  " it was such a big plane and i could not work out where it would land . we then got a call over the tannoy system that there had been a crash . "  mr robinson , now 78 , went out with other members of the raf to help at the scene .  " we thought it was just a light aircraft that had crashed , " he says .  " when we saw it , it was pretty appalling . all the bodies of the passengers were in the middle of the plane as all the seats had slipped . "  mr robinson remains convinced that it was these extra seats that caused the crash .  " they had to get a rough idea of the weight might have tipped the balance towards the back , " he says .  mr robinson , who now lives in hampshire , remembers around seven or eight people being taken from the plane alive , but most of them died in the hospital at st athan .  two survivors escaped from the plane and ran to a nearby farm , but mr robinson says they were reported missing -- meaning that he was forced to enter the wreckage to look for them .  " we had to go into the heart of the place and we saw things which were very unpleasant .  " we also had to clear up all the personal possessions of the passengers , and i still have a plastic whistle from the rugby match that i found .  " i thought it had not had much of an impact on me at the time , as i was just doing what i was trained for , but later on back at the station , i was violently sick .  " and for years later , the smell of burning fuel webb witnessed the disaster as an eight-year-old boy who lived near raf st athan .  " i knew the sounds of aircraft starting up and the noises they made .  " that day i heard different engines so i looked up and i remember the plane flying down the bristol channel towards cardiff , south of st athan .  " it turned round and came back along the channel and then turned over to llantwit major .  " it then turned again and headed back towards cardiff , before turning a final time towards llandow .  " it came down and then i remember the engines reversing , which is unusual , and then it just went silent , there was no crash or explosion , just a lot of black smoke " .  he rushed to tell his father , frank , a flight sergeant at raf st athan , who cycled three miles to the site .  he was one of the first people to arrive at the scene .  " the thing that 's not known is that the plane " i guess the pilot just got lost .  " i have always remembered it , there were not that many passenger aircraft around . i have had a strange feeling over the years and a major air crash is not something many people see in their lifetime . "  mr webb , who now lives in portsmouth , says he plans to travel to sigingstone to visit the plaque for the anniversary .  the crash , which was the biggest air disaster in the world at the time , is still well known to aviation experts .  martin evans , an external research fellow who specialises in aviation at the glamorgan business school , said training methods had improved massively since the tragedy , bringing an associated improvement in safety standards .  " this differs from modern crashes as the aircraft was smaller so there were a smaller number of people on board and therefore a smaller number of casualties , " he said .  " it 's very much remembered in south wales and it 's still a big event 60 years on situations , which can now be done in a simulator , so if a situation occurs in an aircraft today , it would be something the crew would have already experienced . "  walesonline is part of media wales , publisher of the western mail , south wales echo , wales on sunday and the seven celtic weekly titles , offering you unique access to our audience across wales online and in print .