Liquidnet names Drew Miyawaki head, European trading desk..
http://www.finextra.com/news/announcement.aspx?pressreleaseid=32715

Liquidnet names Drew Miyawaki head , European trading desk  10 March 2010 4103 views 0Source : Liquidnet  Liquidnet , the premier institutional investment community , announced that Drew Miyawaki has been appointed as Head of European Trading Desk .  The Liquidnet European Trading Desk provides buy-side trading firms with professional order handling and execution . The fully equipped agency-only trading desk works with buy-side clients executing flow against Liquidnet 's protected buy-side natural pool , as well as ' Supernatural ' liquidity from Streaming Liquidity Participants ( selected brokers and MTFs ) , and external markets . The desk does not accept or handle proprietary flow .  Previously Senior Trader on the Trading Desk , in his new role Drew will oversee Liquidnet 's team of traders based in London , focusing on business development , continued growth of trading volumes , and expansion of the Trading Desk 's coverage to include Asia . He will report to John Barker , Head of International at Liquidnet .  The Trading Desk is just one example of Liquidnet 's expansion in Europe-last year , Members to execute against retail-sized broker flow from selected Streaming Liquidity Participants . Last month , Liquidnet announced that it now offers trading in Polish equities , allowing Members to trade in 31 markets worldwide , 23 of which are in Europe , plus London- and Luxembourg-listed GDRs .  Later this year , the European Trading Desk will launch access to liquidity in Asia and Australia , which will provide European clients with 24 hour-a-day access to global markets and the ability to outsource global orders to Liquidnet 's London trading team .  Commenting on Drew 's appointment , Head of International John Barker said , " We are extremely pleased to formalise Drew 's position as Head of Trading Desk at a time of strong growth for the company . We are focused on increasing our market coverage and the liquidity we offer our buy-side Members-Drew 's experience will be vital in expanding our Trading Desk service . "  Drew joined Liquidnet at its New York Head Office in 2007 in its Portfolio Trading division , before mo moving to Liquidnet in London at the end of United States at Jefferies Portfolio Trading , Merrill Lynch , and DLJ Direct .