Hockey World Cup 2010: England v Germany preview
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/hockey/7414409/Hockey-World-Cup-2010-England-v-Germany-preview.html

If successful , England are likely to have to play the favourites Australia , who play Holland , the least convincing semi-finalists .  This will be England 's first world level semi-final since they lost the 1986 World Cup final to Australia at Willesden .  Germany , on the other hand , have had plenty of experience of major semi-finals . They are , after all , the World and Olympic champions attempting to be the first country to win the World Cup three consecutive times .  But Markus Weise , the very successful German coach , is bedding in a new developing German side . But England have the more experience . They may have lost the services of the Mantell brothers and Matt Daly but Jason Lee in preparing the team , had covered for any eventuality .  England can still field world class players , like Ashley Jackson , Barry Middleton and goalkeeper James Fair , who has been quite outstanding .  England have won only one of their last eight matches against the Germans but did beat the final last August , and they did lead 4-2 in the European pool match .  Lee said : " We have as good a chance of winning the Cup as anybody now . The key for us is our newer players making the right decisions in attack so we are not vulnerable to counter attacks " .  Lee revealed that several players were unwell when England played Spain but everyone was better now , except himself . " I have had a cold , blood poisoning , everything " .  Germany may be without first choice goalkeeper Max Weinhold , who will have a fitness test . He missed Germany 's last two games through injury .  England and Germany both play well constructed hockey , are capable of making the right decisions under pressure , and attack with flair . It is very much a case of " who takes their chances , wins " .  Ric Charlesworth , the coach of Australia , talking about his team 's prospects against the Dutch , said that semi-finals are dour affairs . " I expect wars an Australian victory for his team have had a distinct edge in recent matches with the Dutch who rely too heavily on two players , Taeke Taekama and Teun de Nooiyer .  --  You can watch all of England 's games live here on Telegraph.co.uk , with highlights . To watch all the matches from the Hockey World Cup and full highlights , go to the official website - follow this link .