Boy drowned in neighbour's pond after sneaking away from ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/7413196/Boy-drowned-in-neighbours-pond-after-sneaking-away-from-grandmother.html

Boy drowned in neighbour 's pond after sneaking away from grandmother  A three-year-old boy sneaked away from his grandmother and drowned in a neighbour 's garden pond while she was babysitting him , an inquest heard .  12:25PM GMT 10 Mar 2010  Freddie Watmough is believed to have got out of the family home by climbing on to a stack of rubbish placed by a garden wall .  He was found face-down in a neighbouring pond in his yellow T-shirt and nappy 20 minutes after police were called , and was pronounced dead in hospital .  His grandmother , Julie Beardmore , was looking after him at his home in Dover , Kent , while his mother , Leanne Beardmore , was at work , the inquest heard .  When the house suddenly became quiet towards lunchtime on May 23 last year , Mrs Beardmore said she thought Freddie might have gone upstairs for a nap .  She told the hearing at Dover Magistrates ' Court : ' ' I thought Freddie had gone upstairs to bed because he normally . ' '  Mrs Beardmore , who had been babysitting Freddie since about 6.50am that day , said he had been quiet for no longer than 10 minutes when it emerged he was missing .  She first telephoned her daughter at work and then the police at 11.46am before searching all the cupboards and other areas of the property where Freddie might have been .  Neighbour Shaun King told how his immediate thoughts turned to his garden pond when a police officer arrived at his home saying he was searching for a missing toddler .  Mr King had been carrying out maintenance work on the pond when he broke for lunch before seeing Pc Kevin Sturgess searching for the boy .  ' ' I went out to see him , thinking he was looking for one of my lads , ' ' said Mr King . ' ' He said he was looking for a little lad . I said I had n't seen him but for some reason I went straight to the pond and there he was . ' '  Normally the pond on this particular day a section of it had been removed to allow Mr King access for maintenance work .  Pc Sturgess said a pile of rubbish , plus a trampoline and a patio table , stacked in the corner of Freddie 's garden may have enabled him to scale two walls before venturing out .  ' ' As I was speaking to Mr King , he turned and thought about the pond and shot up the garden . As we arrived , I saw a small figure was lying in the pond face-down , ' ' said Pc Sturgess , of Kent Police .  Resuscitation attempts were made but Freddie was pronounced dead at William Harvey Hospital in Ashford . A post-mortem examination confirmed death was by drowning , said Dr Salim Anjarwalla .  Neither Freddie 's mother nor his father , Philip Watmough , was in court for the hearing . Mrs Beardmore said her daughter could not attend because she is shortly to have another child .  In a statement released at the time , Freddie 's parents said they could not ' ' ' and that they would ' ' give anything to hear him , see him and feel him again ' ' .  Recording a verdict of accidental death , Coroner Rachel Redman said the pond posed an ' ' extremely attractive proposition for Freddie ' ' .  She said : ' ' This was a tragic accident of a little boy who managed to leave his home address and his attention was drawn to a pond in a neighbouring garden and he tragically died . ' '