Taking Twitter's political temperature
http://blogs.reuters.com/uknews/2010/04/06/taking-twitters-political-temperature/

the 2010 vote is also the first time politicians and their strategy teams have had to factor in the micro-blogging site twitter.com . the social media tool , which did not exist at the time of the last election in 2005 , now has over 75 million users who between them sent four billion tweets in the first quarter of 2010 .  it is also home to a vibrant -- and often vitriolic -- political community that is certain to go into overdrive in the run-up to polling day and beyond .  but whose side are they on ?  to answer this question , reuters commissioned market research company crimson hexagon to conduct a detailed assessment of opinions expressed by the uk public about the political parties on twitter .  archiving all tweets related to the parties and their leading figures and then analysing them for positive and negative sentiment ( while simultaneously filtering out any tweets which expressed no opinion ) , the research team was able to take the political temperature of british twitter users .  the results make for the percentage of positive tweets for labour , conservatives , lib dems and other parties between march 22 and april 5 . the conservative party scores slightly better than its rivals ; over the entire period 13 percent of tweets were pro-tory , compared with 10 percent pro-labour , 8 percent pro-lib dems and 8 percent for other parties .  unfortunately for tory leader david cameron , it 's downhill from here . this next graph , showing negative tweets for each party during the same period , shows a big gap between anti-sentiment for the conservatives and the other parties ( an average of 28 percent anti-tory , 18 percent anti-labour , 7 percent anti-lib dems and 8 percent for the other parties ) .  the final graph shows the net results for each party and confirms that anti-tory sentiment was constant throughout this period .  edward schneider , a consultant at crimson hexagon , said : " twitter reveals the tories to be the most talked about , as well as the most polarising , party in recent weeks . over 40 percent of twitter conversation the conservative party , compared to only 28% for labour .  " however , much of the gap in volume is comprised of negative tweets -- the conservative party has only a 3 percentage point lead on labour in terms of favourable tweets .  " it 's worth noting that twitter support for the liberal democrats and other parties , particularly ukip , does not lag far behind , and in aggregate terms it actually surpasses both the leading parties . the possibility of a hung parliament is unquestionably alive , at least online . "  over the coming weeks we will update this information to provide you with a real-time view of what the uk twitter community truly thinks about the main political parties .  twitter is great for following certain people or laundry lists at once , but to enable deeper insights and analysis we created a side-by-side comparison site , politwecal , at http : //www.politwecal.com . take a look -- especially the search function should be handy for comparing the latest opinions from party reps .  ... at the end of the had generally been on my side , that is , supportive of either liberal or labour candidates and issues . and yet , when research was carried out , it turned out that twitter had been like the election itself , just in favour of the conservatives . ...  ... at the end of the election , i came out with the feeling that twitter had generally been on my side , that is , supportive of either liberal or labour candidates and issues . and yet , when research was carried out , it turned out that twitter had been like the election itself , just in favour of the conservatives . ...  author profile  my role involves writing and commissioning content for the reuters uk site and blog platforms , live coverage of major news stories and events and generally working with the rest of the online team to deliver the best possible experience to our web audience .