Victim Support Barnet services move out of Finchley offices
http://www.times-series.co.uk/news/7987257.Victim_support_services_move_out_of_Finchley_offices/

victim support barnet services move out of finchley offices  charity bosses have insisted the relocation of support staff from their offices in finchley will not have a detrimental impact on services for victims of crime in the borough .  senior managers and administrative staff at victim support barnet last week moved out of avenue house , in east end road , to offices in brent , as part of cost cutting measures .  it has raised concerns amongst some people who feel the services could become detached from users in the borough and inaccessible to some groups .  but victim support north west area manager for london , natalie ker-watson , said : " the closure of our avenue house premises will not harm our services for victims of crime in barnet .  " we are simply relocating our senior managers and administrative people to save money on rent and make us more efficient . "  the service , which receives an annual grant of ? 14,250 from barnet council , has undergone a regional management restructuring meaning borough manager posts " local schemes " .  the money saved from premises costs will be redirected to front line services , and ms ker-watson said they will remain in touch with victims in the borough through the setting up " outreach sites " in accessible locations .  promoted stories  she said : " our service will still be delivered by local volunteers in the borough who can continue to make home visits as normal .  " we also have the use of facilities at burnt oak library as a meeting place and are setting up two other outreach sites to make sure we remain accessible to people who need us . "  however , david fleisig , from finchley , who has used the service in the past , believes moving away from the avenue house site will be uncomfortable for victims of crime .  he said : " i think it will affect response rates from people if have to travel outside of the borough .  " in an ideal world , i think most people would want to see it stay where it is go out into the gardens , relax , and talk through their problems .  " these outreach stations will make it seem like people are just waiting in a queue for the service , there will be nothing personal about it .  " people in distress , as most victims are , need continuity and they are not going to get that if the service is moving around . "  share article  ms ker-watson said the plans were an " enhancement " to what they were already providing and hoped the use of council and other charities ' facilities across the borough will help soften any impact the move from avenue house may have .  anyone who is concerned about the move , or would like more information on victim support barnet , can call 020 8965 1141 .  ipsoregulated  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you here  it looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? click here to learn more .  so we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . how do i turn off my ad-blocker ?