6 Music and Asian Network win Sony radio awards
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/10106403

singer cocker said : " 6 music is never going to be the biggest station in the uk but it would be devastating if it was to close .  " 6 music is n't going to change the world , it just wants to make it a bit nicer . "  picking up the award for the adam and joe show , comedian adam buxton said : " my children went to school and boasted about the fact that their dad was on radio 1 and knew chris moyles .  " when the children found out that was n't true and , in fact , the station that dad was on was closing , it was very disappointing . "  the bbc has proposed scrapping both 6 music and the asian network in its strategic review .  ' really chuffed '  the today programme took the best breakfast show for a station with a potential 10 million-plus audience .  television is easy - radio terrifies mesir david attenborough  other wins for radio 4 included best music special for a interview for woman 's hour , and speech broadcaster of the year for wildlife expert sir david attenborough .  " television , ladies and gentleman , is a doddle , " said sir david .  " if you have birds of paradise and gorillas , it 's a doddle .  " television is easy - radio terrifies me . i think it is extraordinarily difficult so my congratulations to you all who work in it . "  in a strong night for the bbc , radio 1 's scott mills won music radio personality of the year , zane lowe won both music broadcaster of the year and the best specialist music prize , and trevor nelson won the sony gold award for his outstanding contribution to radio .  nelson said he was " really chuffed and really surprised " .  " the music i 've always championed has always been about r&amp;b .  image caption radio 2 's the dermot o'leary show won best music programme  " when i first went on radio 1 in 96 , i said the words r&amp;b not rhythm and blues , rhythm and blues is old 60s music ' .  " i knew we were onto something because you get rid of the old guard , you bring in the new . "  radio 2 's the dermot o'leary show won best music programme while 5 live film critic mark kermode was named best specialist contributor .  the bbc world service 's lyse doucet won news journalist of the year .  among the commercial station winners , absolute scooped best competition , for the christian o'connell breakfast show , and live event coverage , for blur at london 's hyde park .  london 's kiss fm won the big local station of the year award while planet rock was named best digital station .  the dixie and gayle programme , on real radio yorkshire , won the breakfast show prize for smaller stations .