BA strikes and Iceland volcano to cause summer holiday chaos
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/travel/article-1277260/BA-strikes-Iceland-volcano-cause-summer-holiday-chaos.html

holidaymakers face summer of chaos with ba strikes and continued ash cloud disruption  the holiday season may be almost upon us but travellers could be forgiven for being hesitant when booking a last-minute foreign trip this summer .  british airways cabin crew last night announced 20 days of fresh strikes in the coming weeks and today dozens more flights across europe were cancelled as the volcanic ash cloud continued to wreak havoc .  plans by fans to fly to the world cup could be affected by the ba strikes . the tournament begins on june 11 and thousands of england supporters have booked flights .  grounded : british airways ' crew are to hold 20 days of strikes in a long-running industrial dispute over pay and working conditions - just in time for the holidays  dense:the cloud of ash and steam continues to emit from iceland 's eyjafjallajokull volcano , as shown by nasa 's moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer ( modis ) on board the aqua satellite . it is likely to cause more air travel chaos this summer  the giant stage four five-day walk-outs : from next tuesday until saturday , may 22 ; from may 24 to 28 ; from may 30 to june 3 ; from june 5 to 9 .  crew have overwhelmingly rejected the company 's latest offer aimed at ending their long-running dispute over jobs , pay and conditions .  a consultative ballot of 12,000 ba cabin crew gave an 81 per cent majority against the proposed deal .  the airline said today it planned to operate a ' substantial ' part of its long-haul schedule from heathrow and predicted that flights to and from gatwick would not be affected by the series of five-day stoppages .  airlines and routes affected today  ryanair : dozens of flights to and from spain , portugal and the canary islands have been cancelled .  easyjet : flights to and from barcelona , madrid and faro cancelled . warning of disruption to flights to and from france , spain , portugal , canary islands , madeira , and gibraltar .  british airways : long delays to transatlantic flights to and from heathrow and flights to and from heathrow and gatwick .  spain : severalairports are closed due to ash . canary island airports of tenerife , la palma and la gomera are closed.airports at seville , jerez and badajoz are also shut .  morocco : several airports shut including the main international hub of casablanca and the capital rabat ( 8am to 1pm bst ) . tangier , tetouan and essaouira airports will also be shut until at least 1pm bst .  airports and airlines continued to urge passengers to check the latest information before travelling to their airport .  critics said the strikes risk threatening the future of the airline and its staff , but ba chief executive willie walsh has pledged not to buckle .  ba said it was ' saddened but not surprised ' at the new strikes and added : ' unite 's officials continue to operate in their own world , showing callous disregard for our customers and their own members in all parts of our airline .  ' we have made a very fair offer , which meets the concerns the union our crew remain the best rewarded in the uk airline industry . that offer remains available .  ' we are confident that many crew will again ignore unite 's pointless strike call and support the efforts of the rest of the airline to keep our customers flying . '  unite is also planning a further ballot over other complaints : the removal of free and cheap flights perks from strikers and disciplinary action taken against 55 ba staff , including five sackings .  today it urged cabin crew to challenge deductions from their pay during strikes in march , claiming that some cabin crew had wages deducted for days when they were not taking action .  some crew have received back pay after contacting ba to complain about deductions , according to unite .  unite 's joint general secretaries derek simpson and tony woodley said : ' there can be no industrial peace without meaningful negotiations and while management victimises trade unionists and uses disciplinary procedures in a witch-hunt . '  the strike announcement comes days after mr woodley returned from a trip to communist .  bob atkinson , of travelsupermarket.com , said : ' this has the potential to wreak havoc with half-term holiday plans .  rejected : british airways staff turned down a deal aimed at ending their year-long dispute with the airline . members of unite voted by 81 per cent not to accept a proposal from ba on pay and conditions  ' on top of this a 20-day strike may also cause disruptions to those travelling to the world cup . '  during the strikes ba will lease extra aircraft and obtain thousands of seats from rival airlines . it plans to operate a ' substantial ' part of its long-haul schedule from heathrow and predicted that flights to and from gatwick would continue as normal . flights at london city would be unaffected .  the dispute began 14 months ago when loss making ba announced cost-cutting changes to cabin crew numbers - which had the effect of reducing levels on a jumbo jet from 15 to 14 - to save just under ? 63million a year .  cabin crew initially voted 9-1 in favour of ' but this ballot was ruled invalid by the high court .  catching up on the news : passengers wait at milan linate airport yesterday after italy closed much of its northern airspace because of the ash cloud