Robert Plant at Birmingham Symphony Hall
http://www.expressandstar.com/entertainment/2010/10/28/concert-review-robert-plant-at-birmingham-symphony-hall/

the singer has resurrected the name band of joy from the pre-led zep midlands blues outfit he formed with drummer john bonham in the 60s , but last night 's sell-out concert was way more than just the blues .  instead the hall rang out with the sounds of his other musical love , american roots music -- from rockabilly to soul , gospel to country and bluegrass to rock , plant 's inimitable vocals floating over the top .  " welcome to another peculiar evening with the band of joy , " he smiled , looking around the venue and adding " do n't be intimidated by the environment . "  the sound throughout was stunning , with angel dance featuring a spellbinding five-part vocal harmony , something which was to be repeated to great effect throughout the night .  plant showed he is still the master of pulling rock star shapes . . . he invented many of them , after all .  house of cards was awe-inspiring , while please read the letter , from his grammy award-winning raising , darker edge live , this time with patty griffin sharing vocal duties .  plant recalled going to various blues gigs in the 60s at birmingham town hall , particularly blind gary davies , whose twelve gates to the city he then sang .  the star , smiling and genial throughout , was even happy to step to the back of the stage and provide backing vocals on three occasions to let griffin and guitarists buddy miller , and darrell scott take over lead vocals and a well-deserved share of the limelight .  and then there were , of course , the led zep " covers " , complete reinventions of songs like misty mountain hop , houses of the holy , gallows pole and rock &amp; roll that saw a battery of instruments from mandolin , banjo , pedal steel guitar , double bass and washboard paint familiar classics in whole new colours , the effect both eerie and mesmerising in turn .  the evening ended with just the voices of all six band members entwining for and we bid you goodnight and , after an did .  paul merrett  october 28 , 2010 4:07 pm  ok lets have a reality check eh . for starters he did nt get to grips with the venue till quite late in the set and i think he was the one who was a little awed by the venue for a while - compare his energy , approach etc to that of jeff beck who performed the same venue only a week or so ago - he took the audience for granted , ambled through a set that is clearly designed to meet an american audinces needs and , like dylan , van morrisson and a few others of that generation is in danger of starting to trade on " brand plant " to enhance his pension . now before you shoot the messenger i have been following him since day one and for stand out quality i reference his set at wolverhampton civic hall in december 2005 which was a masterclass into how to mix old and new with re-worked versions.i welcome class acts evolving and maturing and thats clearly what he s doing , but his best , good yes can do better .