Graphic Novel: Heart of Darkness
http://www.varsity.co.uk/reviews/2668

Graphic Novel : Heart of Darkness  I 've always had trouble with Marlon Brando 's performance in Apocalypse Now ; his Kurtz is far from Conrad 's bed ridden , emaciated ivory dealer . This depiction offers a more than fitting visual interpretation of Kurtz , with his universe-encompassing stare depicted in a manner that live action will never manage .  This is a hyper-reality that the illustrator Catherine Anyango capitalizes on , the paradox that sometimes illustration is the best way to depict real life . The literal animation of inanimate objects is rendered beautifully , the " carcass " of an old steam engine being a perfect example . The frequent depiction of events from a bird 's eye view give a sense of two-dimensional progression along a map and the landscapes seen from this perspective often take on the appearance of some great animal 's skin . The pareidolia found in the original work is also a strong feature of the graphic novel , so strong as to reverse itself at times : faces found in scenery turn into scenery found in and white , though a sort of sepia black and white , not the boldness of Persepolis . The illustration is done in pencil , though often crossing into inky territory , where bold smudges are reminiscent of cartographical inkblots or violent blood splatter . Intense charcoal portraiture and sketch is used alongside this ; the former being one of the novels most effective illustrative skills . It should n't escape our attention that the narrator , Marlowe , is given Conrad 's own countenance .  In written style the graphic novel is just as brief as the book . In place of broad dialogues , individual lines are singled out and placed on a pedestal of dramatic image . Undoubtedly a vast part of Heart of Darkness ' literary beauty is forgone , but this is inevitable in such a densely poetic novel and can be forgiven . The lines that have been chosen remain powerful , particularly alongside highly charged pictures ; in this way , Conrad 's literary beauty is left intact and in charge .