From Alan Ball to David Beckham - football boots most horrific designs
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-1324616/From-Alan-Ball-David-Beckham--football-boots-horrific-designs.html

From Alan Ball to David Beckham - football boots most horrific designs  After the unveiling of Cristiano Ronaldo 's new boots , one thing for sure is Nike 's new design is not one for the purists and is perhaps for those with an acquired taste .  With football boots taking yet another wacky turn , Sportsmail looks back on some of the more disastrous footwear to grace the game .  Time gap : From Alan Ball in the seventies to John Barnes in the nineties , white boots took a while to fully catch on  The original white boots  Hummel were the first to break the taboo around boot colour when they released their white boot in the early 1970 's .  They never really caught on until all sorts of colours ( almost overnight ) became acceptable in the mid-90s , by then Adidas and Puma had a big stranglehold on the market .  Full of colour : But Fila 's rainbow coloured boots did not prove popular  Fila 's ' rainbow ' boots  Quite possibly are very rare of anyone ever playing in these .  On the positive side if one of your teammates happened to be colour blind and purchased a pair you would not miss him for a pass from a mile away .  Think pink : Bendtner found no problems finding the back of the net with his pink boots  Nike Mercurial Rosa  Exactly why Nicklas Bendtner thought wearing a pair of bright pink coloured boots was a good idea will for now remain a mystery .  Chances are if you turned up to your local Sunday League game flashing a pair of shiny ' in your face pink ' boots you would have a few more lumps kicked out of you than usual .  Retro : The boot is a tribute to Italian World Cup winning boss Vittorio Pozzo  Puma FG Italia  With Nike pushing the final boundary on colours with their ' Rosa ' boots and Fila just about using every colour going , Puma decided to go the other way with their FG Italia .  Their brown number only needs a the added dashes of blue turn it in to a mess and make it only acceptable to wear if you happen to play for the Corinthian Casuals .  Practicable ? Kelme 's boot is made with Swarovski crystals  Kelme Swarovski  Taking boots where no boots have gone before , in exchange for 350 of your hard earned pounds you get a pair of football boots ... laced with crystals .  The performance advantage ? None . The chance you will have even more lumps kicked out of you than if you wore the ' Rosa ' ? Loads .  Golden shoes : Beckham 's boots were to celebrate his 100th England cap  Beckham 's golden ton  No debate on football boots can be complete without at least a brief mention about David Beckham .  In this case it 's those gold boots he wore on his 100th cap against France . To wear gold you have to at least back it with a performance on the pitch . Beckham was sadly anonymous in a 1-0 defeat .