England to withdraw Russia 2018 complaint after apology
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/9134479.stm

england to withdraw russia 2018 complaint after apology  england 's 2018 world cup bid team is to withdraw a complaint to fifa about russia 's campaign following an apology from their rival bidder .  the russian sports minister vitaly mutko has apologised for comments made by bid chief alexei sorokin .  england 's official complaint was that russia had broken bidding rules when he made disparaging comments about london .  " mr mutko approached the bid team with a genuine apology in an honourable manner , " said an england spokesman .  " we , of course , accepted this apology and appreciate the gesture . we now wish to move on from this matter . "  fifa 's committee met on thursday to receive reports on the bids .  the english bid team had complained on tuesday that sorokin highlighted london 's " high crime rate " and youth alcohol problems in an interview with russian media that appeared to contravene fifa 's rules about talking about rival bidders .  mr mutko approached the england 2018 bid team 2018 spokesperson  tensions between the two bids then intensified after viacheslav koloskov , honorary president of the russian football union , referred to england 's 2018 bid as " absolutely primitive " and " comical " .  but sorokin admits he is happy to see a line drawn under the issue .  " i 'm glad this whole thing is finally over to our mutual satisfaction and we can now proceed with our normal work , " he said .  aside from england and russia 's bids , spain and portugal have a joint bid on the table for 2018 , as do netherlands and belgium .  meanwhile , the 2022 world cup hosts will be chosen from australia , the united states , qatar , japan and south korea .  please turn on javascript . media requires javascript to play .  the winning bids are set to be announced following a vote by the fifa executive committee in zurich on 2 december .  after england lodged their complaint with fifa , koloskov - who is not an official member of their bid before the apology from mutko and subsequent withdrawal .  " there is no reason for russia to fear sanctions , " said koloskov . " there wo n't even be an investigation .  " it 's a comical situation . the english are afraid of how badly their bid is going . instead of talking about their own advantages and merits , they try to disorient their rivals . "  this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets ( css ) enabled . while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience . please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets ( css ) if you are able to do so .