New York Week: A Guide to Brooklyn's DIY Scene
http://drownedinsound.com/in_depth/4141016-new-york-week--a-guide-to-brooklyns-diy-scene

until recently , university-aged indie rock fans in new york city have n't had a lot of options . in a city that boasts dozens of clubs and venues , many under the age of 21 have been shut out of shows .  the drinking age in america was set nationally at 21 in 1984 . the state of new york leaves it up to the discretion of club owners whether or not they include the underagers , as club owners would have to purchase specific insurance policies to cover the under-21 crowd , and could have their liquor licenses thrown into jeopardy if undercover cops were to bust underage drinkers , they have little incentive to be inclusive . this has been a major motivating factor for the diy scene that has sprouted in brooklyn over the last ten years .  " people think that we 're just trying to have the most wild illegal sort of party ever or something , which is often kind of sad because that 's not what we 're going for , " says todd patrick , better since 2001 . he is perhaps new york 's best known indie promoter , having booked such bands as no age , the thermals , and the fall in spaces ranging from his own venues to polish night clubs to the high-ceilinged space above an auto body shop . " not that having a fun party is n't also good , but that 's not why we do it . we do it because we want the musicians to be able to play in front of young people who are legally barred from seeing them . "  the so so glos have experienced this conundrum from both sides of the stage . brothers ryan and alex levine and their step-brother zach staggers grew up in bay ridge , brooklyn , and were joined by guitarist matt elkin in 2007 . the band found themselves sneaking underage friends through the back doors of lower east side clubs . they were additionally frustrated by the system of paying bands based on a tally of who came to see them , and , in ryan 's words , " playing shows booked by there . "  the band began playing shows in the back rooms and basements of bars . some of these shows were booked with the help of joe ahearn , who now runs the diy venue silent barn as well as overseeing ( with todd p ) the production of showpaper , a 10,000 run bi-weekly newspaper listing all-ages shows in the greater new york area that cost less than $25 .  while on tour in the us in 2007 , the so so glos decided they wanted to run their own diy venue . " seeing art spaces , meeting all these great people , we felt we had to reciprocate , " says alex .  " what we saw on our first tour in america inspired us to do bigger things here , " says matt . bigger is the operative word : when they had returned from tour , joe ahearn was ready to show them what would become the market hotel . at 300 capacity , it 's the largest venue of its kind in brooklyn .  incidentally , todd p had been point , as he was with other potential show spaces , but had not been able to get in touch with the landlords . " the so so glos ... called the number and magically got someone to answer the phone , " he says . " and so they went and saw it and came to me and said , ' do you want to be involved ? ' and i said , ' of course . ' "  the so so glos are no longer directly involved in market hotel ; in may 2009 , they opened shea stadium in conjunction with producer adam reisch . the converted warehouse space serves as a live room and recording studio , and reisch records every live set , allowing bands to come away with a " live at shea stadium " tape .  the market hotel , meanwhile , is currently dark . after a police raid in april 2010 , the space needs to have various improvements made in order to meet various standards and qualify for the necessary permits to reopen .  many of the diy spaces are actually people 's homes , loft spaces and larger apartments that have the furniture shoved out of the way for bands to play . some are commercial spaces the landlords rent knowing they will be used as " performance spaces " and that some of the artists will be bands . that does not necessarily qualify the venue to charge for admission or sell alcohol . it is also an open secret that some of the commercially zoned spaces are lived in , though the landlords are n't amongst those in on the secret .  " your neighbors and the local police precinct are the biggest things you have to watch out for , " says bill dozer , whose space , the acheron , opened in may 2010 . " the cops generally do n't bother you because they have bigger things to worry about , " he says . " keep the face of your business clean . " the acheron , shea stadium , and silent barn are all in commercial or industrial areas ; with residential neighbours few and far between , there is market hotel , though parallel to an elevated subway station , is in a high traffic commercial area , with cornershops and bars that are open well into the night . the circumstances encourage a police presence more so than shuttered warehouses .  bill sees how spaces like the acheron can create something permanent . recalling shows at the residential mckibbin and johnson loft complexes in the nebulous area called east williamsburg , the schedules would have to be sporadic because of the neighbors . with this in mind , he is quick to emphasise the importance of running a diy venue with the same professionalism as a commercial venue . " make sure shows start and end at the same time . make sure the bathroom is fucking clean , " he says with a laugh . " when you 're working at a show the first thing is that you 're at work . "  the future of diy venues in brooklyn could be shaped by the progress of the market hotel project , the vehicle for getting the space up to code and securing its non-profit venue in the city to accomplish this -- former punk squat abc no rio on the lower east side has non-profit status , as does issue project room , an art and performance space in brooklyn that caters to avant garde tastes . both venues have acquired million-dollar grants from the city . non-profit status would help protect the market hotel against sky-rocketing nyc rent prices , and hopefully create a lasting community space .  " the idea of sustainability is really the issue here , " says todd . " that anyone can use at a low cost , that other promoters and organizers can come in ... it will not be mine then , it will be run by a board , and hopefully served by and serving the community . so trying to create a framework that makes it easier for folks to keep this going after we step out . "  if there is a competition of **28;374;toolong , within the scene there is less competition and more community . in addition to the listings in showpaper , todd p offers a comprehensive list of shows on his website . recognising the attention he gets as a promoter , he is also keen to those who were already booking shows when he first moved to new york . russ waterhouse , lately of the philadelphia band blues control , and visual artist kyle lapidus of the duo lovid were both booking shows in the early 2000s , as was john fitzgerald who started the mighty robot space ( now secret project robot , and where todd p 's monster island basement is located ) , who todd p cites as " the one who got the idea of these things , of good shows happening in williamsburg . previous to that , there were shows happening in williamsburg , but they were , yeah , whatever . he started doing the great stuff . "  bill dozer , who currently plays with attake , and the so so glos , has recently completed a us tour with matt and kim , have learned first hand what to expect as a band and what to offer touring bands . bill , for example , uses outside acheron , is very clear with bands about what money is being taken off the door . " if the bands are happy with the show , it 's us , " he says . " if they 're happy or unhappy with the way they 're paid , that 's the promoter . "  todd p remains adamant that anyone could throw a show , and makes no illusions of the simplicity of the process . " if people see us setting up , they see how set-up is done . and they realize sort of how unpretentious and uncomplicated it is , " he says . " and i do n't mean that our stuff is uncomplicated , i mean that all set-ups are uncomplicated . "  the so so glos maintain that bands should n't be discouraged if they ca n't get a show at the increasingly popular shea stadium . they hope to see more venues in a similar vein . " the more places there are like this , the more shows , " is matt 's logical opinion .  " if you show , " is zach 's advice . " it 'll keep going on , and it should go on . "