Simon Schama interview: history is dangerous, teachers need to be ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/8148273/Simon-Schama-interview-history-is-dangerous-teachers-need-to-be-brave.html

Simon Schama , the new government adviser on history teaching , tells Sameer Rahim why children need a return to chronology  Nothing can dampen Simon Schama 's enthusiasm for telling stories -- not even being caught in a south Indian rainstorm . When I meet him at The Week Hay Festival in Kerala , his white , Indian-style shirt is soaked and his greying hair is dripping . But the 65-year-old professor of history and art history at Columbia University can not wait to defend his latest project .  When Michael Gove , the Education Secretary , appointed him in October as a government adviser on history teaching in schools , the criticism from some was scathing . Mary Beard , the Cambridge classicist , said Schama was " not only glitzy , but also cheap " and his new role was " an insult to history teachers " .  While many others , not least the millions of people who have enjoyed his television shows and bought his critically-acclaimed books , were no doubt delighted that he would be helping to sort out a rather unfortunate label .  " The History Tsar thing is a ridiculous title made up by another newspaper , " says Schama .  " I do n't want to offend any teachers whose work I respect so much and who labour heroically under very difficult circumstances -- especially in comprehensives .  " If anything I just want to be the echo of things I 've heard from them . " None the less he wrote ( with typical rhetorical brio ) last week of his worry that unless schoolchildren " can be won to history , their imagination will be held hostage in the cage of eternal now : the flickering instant that 's gone as soon as it has arrived " .  This is a lesson he has certainly managed to pass on in his own family . Earlier this year Schama 's daughter , Chloe , had her first book published . Wild Romance is a scandalous story of Victorian bigamy .  I ask whether he was more nervous when her book came out than when his own collection of essays , Scribble  " Yes absolutely . I was afraid people would want to get at me through her , " he says . " The press were total gents : they were enthusiastic and judged the book in its own right . "  He adds , with touching pride , that the book has been shortlisted for the Longman-History Today Prize .  Schama hopes to spread his family 's love of storytelling to every child in Britain . He claims that the current method of teaching history -- focusing on the same few disconnected eras : the Tudors , the industrial revolution , the First World War -- threatens to cut " the cord of our national memory " . Expanding on that position , he says : " I am strongly of the opinion that chronology is very important . The great arc of time is what children are wired for . "  They love reading JK Rowling and Philip Pullman because " the conceptual apparatus children have is for the epic " , he adds .  I ask him whether there is a role in schools , author of The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire . At first Schama seems unsure that students in " Sunderland or Cardiff " would take to 18th-century orotund irony .  But , being Schama , he starts to convince himself . " You could take one page , the Life of Mohammed , for example -- a rather over-heroic view of Mohammed , but very interesting . " He seems decided : " I could do an afternoon of Gibbon with 12 year-olds " . I say I have detected a Gibbon-like ambition in his work . He looks a little -- but only a little -- uncomfortable with the comparison .  eSDLqPatriots and Liberators Schama 's first book , a history of the Netherlands from 1780 -- 1813 suffered from Gibbonitis . I think it won the odd prize , but looking back on it I ca n't read it : those rolling cadences and overlong sentences are just embarrassing now . "  Here in India the decline and fall of the British Empire is clearly on his mind . In his , Schama included what he delicately called " the Indian moment " .  " We 've got all kinds of things to be ashamed of but we have things to celebrate too , " he tells me . " That this story matters seems to be unarguable . Why would kids of Asian background not want to know about the age of empire ? "  Well , I say , might it not be awkward in a multiracial classroom to discuss both the crimes and achievements of the empire ? " History is admirably dangerous . It is not the soft option , " he replies robustly . " Teachers need to be grown up and brave . Sensitivity is fine but it stops at the door of honest narrative . "  Other historians , notably David Starkey , would prefer to stress the benevolence of the British Empire . In a piece published this week questioning Schama 's role as history adviser , Starkey said students should study " how our liberal constitution based on responsible government was adopted worldwide " . Just as Schama and I of the Hay Festival , whose global media partner is The Daily Telegraph , interrupts us with news that Aung San Suu Kyi , the Burmese pro-democracy leader , has been released from house arrest . " Oh it 's fantastic , " says Schama . " We should drink her health tonight at dinner . A wonderful , wonderful moment . "  Burma was under British rule from 1824 to 1948 and , save for a brief window of democracy , has been ruled by a military junta since independence . Suu Kyi 's story reminds us that Britain 's past is inextricable from present conflicts .  University teaching is not part of Schama 's government remit but he must , I ask , surely have an opinion on the proposed rise in student tuition fees . He answers carefully , perhaps restrained by the thought of his new boss , Mr Gove .  " All I would say about that is I 'm quite glad that the full Browne report -- with no cap on tuition fees whatsoever -- does n't seem to have been adopted is young men and women only choosing subjects that will help them pay off their debt . " History is not usually one of those subjects .  The tradition in America , where Schama has taught for 30 years , first at Harvard and then at Columbia , is very different . Along with a culture of self-reliance , there are philanthropic donations and plenty of scholarships for poor students . Schama clearly loves America . At the end of his 2008 book The American Future , he wrote that the nation was in " strong , young , hardworking hands " . Now he seems less sure . At an event the next day , the Indian audience was treated to Schama at full throttle .  Once an admirer of Obama 's " staggering composure and relaxed cool " , he now believes the president 's terrible midterm election results came from his failure to communicate the severity of the financial crisis . " The problem is no story was told to say how close we were to wipeout , " he says , wandering from the stage 's passivity in the face of attacks from the Tea Party campaign frustrates Schama : " He 's an intellectual aristocrat who needs to talk to the doughnut lovers -- or he 's screwed . "  Back in England , news of the engagement of Prince William and Kate Middleton cheered up the man many would claim as our national historian . Yet he had some words of warning for the couple and our expectations of them .  " We ask the Royal Family to do two things which are really difficult to put together . To be a cheer-up panacea for our tough times , an emblem of Britishness , optimism and the community coming together . And we also just want them to be a loving couple . "  Those two narratives , Schama implies , are in danger of clouding and confusing each other . And if anyone knows the value of getting your story straight -- whether it 's reconnecting children with epic history , or showing us how Obama has lost the plot -- it is Schama.