Fareham back plans to build some 7000 homes north of the town
http://www.dailyecho.co.uk/news/8678927.Fareham_back_plans_to_build_some_7_000_homes_north_of_the_town/

fareham back plans to build some 7,000 homes north of the town  they 're two picture-postcard images of rural hampshire . but perhaps not for much longer .  one is the idyllic countryside to the north of winchester at barton farm where developers plan to build 2,000 homes .  the other is land between wickham , knowle and fareham , where this week fareham bourough council ( fbc ) backed plans to build some 7,000 homes , creating a housing estate the size of petersfield .  the fact that both have come under the gaze of developers is a blow to green campaigners whose hopes were raised following the scrapping of the south east plan earlier this year , and with it regional housing targets .  but councils such as fareham continue to back development plans on greenfield sites .  and even when they did n't the courts last week sided with the potential developer of barton farm , cala homes .  in fact , mr justice sales ruled in the high court that the old housing targets are still government decision in july to abolish regional housing targets with immediate effect .  the fact that there has been huge opposition to both developments may not , ultimately , stand in the way of their going ahead .  promoted stories  when fbc bosses arrived at thursday 's meeting to discuss the wickham , knowle and fareham home development plan , they were met by the sight of some 40 protesters .  " fareham 's figures state a need for 2,000 homes . but they 're using this plan for a town of 7,500 "  but that did n't stop the tory-run council from giving its backing to the development .  the plan is now likely to go to a public inquiry and an action area plan will be drawn up before more detailed plans go back before the council .  council bosses say there are some 2,000 people on the housing waiting list because of the gap between house prices and salaries .  but protesters say the scheme is flawed . the situation in fareham is being repeated across hampshire and the rest caroline dibden , chair of the campaign for the protection of rural england ( cpre ) south hampshire , who helps to run the south hampshire united voices campaign against the development .  she said : " people have said to me : ' where else will the housing go , if it does n't go here ? ' " but they are missing the fundamental point . fareham 's own figures state a need for just 2,000 affordable homes . they are using this plan for a town of 7,500 , together with eco-town funding , to try and accommodate that whole need outside the city . this is neither the right place , nor is there a need for such a large development .  " neighbourhoods and community groups should be asked properly how their neighbourhood should be developed .  " due to a lack of thorough community engagement to date , people are only now becoming aware of the size and horrendous traffic and unfunded infrastructure implications of the new town proposal .  " a petition of nearly 1,000 signatures has been collected so than 700 postcards from fareham residents and local communities have been sent to grant shapps , the minister for housing and local government . "  christopher napier , chairman of cpre added that the group is not against all development .  " elsewhere in the county , cpre hampshire has been supportive in principle of an eco-town at whitehill-bordon , which is almost all brownfield development , on the basis that some development is necessary after the army moves out , and that the existing town is in need of improvement and better facilities -- which the new eco-town would bring , " he said .  " the proposed new town north of fareham does not meet those criteria .  " in this case , we would be looking at building on an important greenfield site between fareham and wickham , which would be very damaging to the countryside , a fact that can not be disguised by calling it an ' eco-town ' . "  a spokesperson for the council said : " people are living longer , there are more single households and a essential to meet the demand for housing of the borough 's population , the council had to decide whether to fill in existing strategic countryside gaps between communities or to focus most of the housing needed into one area by building a new community to the north of fareham and the m27 . "  the spokesperson said if smaller areas between existing communities were built in there was concern that they would lose their identity as well as placing increased pressure on existing facilities such as schools , health provision and other community amenities .  while the eco-debate rages there are further concerns regarding new developments .  even when new towns are built on greenfield sites , concerns remain that the infrastructure -- including roads , shops and other amenities -- may be lacking .  the whiteley development , near fareham , has been highlighted for lack of infrastructure , particularly public transport and roads as well as school places .  meanwhile the future of another greenfield development at barton farm in winchester -- a 300-acre site of open land -- remains unresolved following mr justice people marched in save barton farm group 's protest rally against the scheme for 2,000 homes . and the council still intends to defend its refusal of the scheme at the public inquiry in february .  as hampshire 's population continues to increase , pressure on the county 's countryside will continue to dominate the agendas of both councils and environmental protesters .  promoted stories  fareham back plans to build some 7,000 homes north of the town  condor man 3:45pm sat 20 nov 10  people need somewhere to live , seems a good idea to me . better to build there than to continually overcrowd existing areas with rubbish housing as has happened in southampton over the past decade .  people need somewhere to live , seems a good idea to me . better to build there than to continually overcrowd existing areas with rubbish housing as has happened in southampton over the past decade.condor man  people need somewhere to live , seems a good idea to me . better to build there than to continually overcrowd existing areas with rubbish housing as has  this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation 's editors ' code of practice . if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here  it looks like you have enabled software that blocks our advertising . did you know that the revenue from advertising funds our local journalism ? click here to learn more .  so we can continue producing great local journalism , we 'd be grateful if you would disable your ad blocker , at least for this website . how do i turn off my ad-blocker ?