IMF's Dominique Strauss-Kahn wants fiscal and reform powers ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/financialcrisis/8147913/IMFs-Dominique-Strauss-Kahn-wants-fiscal-and-reform-powers-given-to-Europe.html

warning that " the sovereign crisis is not over " , dominique strauss-kahn , the imf managing director and a likely french presidential candidate , called on the european union to move responsibility for fiscal discipline and structural reform to a central body that is free from the influences of member states .  the proposal from so powerful a figure will dismay ireland and other peripheral euro-zone nations already fearful of a loss of sovereignty as the price of a bail-out . ireland is expected to agree a rescue of up to ? 100bn ( ? 85bn ) within days , in the form of a low-cost loan to shore up the banks .  the scale of ireland 's problems was laid bare on friday by allied irish banks , which revealed that it has lost ? 13bn of customer deposits -- mostly " institutional and corporate " -- since the start of the year , 17pc of its entire deposit base .  its reliance on funding from " monetary authorities " has risen to ? 27bn from a " high single-digit " billions allied now has just ? 11bn of acceptable collateral left to pledge to institutions like the european central bank .  allied 's numbers sent a fresh wave of panic through the markets , pushing irish bond yields higher and erasing some of the euro 's earlier gains .  irish 10-year bond yields rose three basis points to 8.34pc and the euro was little changed against the dollar at $1.3652 . george papaconstantinou , greece 's finance minister , added the bleak warning : " even if ireland is helped , it can not prevent the debt crisis from continuing . "  allied also abandoned plans to sell its uk arm due to the " challenging market conditions " and increased its planned capital raising this year from ? 5.4bn to ? 6.6bn .  mr strauss-kahn 's call to centralise power in europe is significant because the imf will contribute a large portion of the irish rescue . in a speech in frankfurt , he said : " the wheels of co-operation move too slowly . the centre must seize the initiative in all areas key to reaching , economic and social policy . countries must be willing to cede more authority to the centre .  referring to the crisis , he said : " the eurozone area 's institutions were simply not up to the task -- even setting up a temporary solution proved to be a drawn-out process . " one solution is to shift the main responsibility for enforcement of fiscal discipline and key structural reforms away from the council . this would minimise the risk of narrow national interests interfering with effective implementation of the common rules . "  in proposals that are likely to play into the hands of eurosceptics in the uk and elsewhere , mr strauss-kahn recommended more tax harmonisation and a larger central budget for the euro area . he said that labour market reforms need to be centralised , saying : " it is time to create a level playing field for european workers , especially in the area of labour taxation , social benefits systems and portability , and employment protection legislation . "