A Vision for Education
http://www.thenewstoday.info/2010/11/04/a.vision.for.education.html

A Vision for Education  It is for this reason that Antonio del Rosario and his company named PHINMA engage in industries that the country needs at a certain time .  In the 80 's until the early 90 's , PHINMA got involved in glass , steel and oil businesses . One of them was Philippine Oil , the first Filipino-owned company . " Heavy industries were what the nation needed at that time , " del Rosario told The News Today . " However , we got hit by the Asian financial crisis and these businesses suffered , " he added .  Upgraded computer laboratory .  " It was the time when the nation needed education and housing . We had to allow Filipinos to live a decent life . It was the time that we want to ensure that life can be better for every Filipino , " said PHINMA 'S president and chief executive officer .  So , PHINMA deviated from manufacturing and focused on education and housing . " Education is not just an end . It is  PHINMA 's presence in Iloilo City is felt through the University of Iloilo-PEN which they acquired last year . Del Rosario said that his mission of providing good quality education for low-income sectors will be realized through UI-PEN .  " Just to be clear , we run this as a business and not as a charity . So , while we keep the school a profitable business , we give quality education by being as efficient as we can . We also make it a point that the city 's best teachers are attracted to come to us . We have improved the facilities of the school , we are upgrading the skills and education of the faculty and we offer the best pay , " del Rosario said .  Del Rosario also revealed that amid keeping their costs down , UI-PEN manages to offer a scholarship program . This year , they have 1,500 full and partial scholars .  So , how does UI-PEN keep the costs down yet remain efficient ? " We lessen our operational expenses . We only offer courses wherein once the have one president and one chief marketing director for all our schools . This way , we could keep our tuition down , " he said .  The other schools that PHINMA has acquired are Araullo University in Dagupan , University of Pangasinan in Cabanatuan , and Cagayan de Oro College in Cagayan de Oro .  Araullo University is an example of PHINMA 's success in its education system . " Before , its CPA passing rate was 0 percent . After we acquired and ran it efficiently , it enjoys a 94 percent passing rate . We are talking of the same exam takers . Our passing rate has improved through the years and we will reflect this here in Iloilo , " he said .  Keeping costs down as well as tuition fees yet still offer good quality education can be tricky . Del Rosario admits that there is a tension between the desire to improve quality yet lower the costs . " It is a balancing act but we remain focus on the things that we want to achieve , " he said .  Secretary of Finance of the Republic of the Philippines from 1992 to 1993 and was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of San Miguel Corporation from 1986 to 1989 .  He received his double degree in Accounting and Social Science from De La Salle University in Manila , graduated magna cum laude and obtained his MBA from Harvard University .