Over $5million in cash already won in Wray &amp; Nephew White Rum's ...
http://go-jamaica.com/pressrelease/item.php?id=3997

Since the start of Wray &amp; Nephew White Overproof Rum ? s Q Is The Key promotion on October 12 , over five million dollars in cash and prizes have been won by over three thousand consumers . As of the end of November , exactly 3,602 Wray &amp; Nephew White Overproof Rum consumers have won a total of $5.77 million in only seven weeks . Of this amount , 515 of these winners have won $10,000 cash totaling $5.15 million , and 3,087 have won $200 phone call credit valuing $617,400 .  Cecil Smith , Group Brand Manager for Rums at J. Wray &amp; Nephew Limited , expressed his delight at the vast amount of positive feedback that the Q Is The Key promotion has been receiving nationwide :  ? All expectations are being exceeded at the massive amount of consumer participation taking place in our Q Is The Key promotion thus far .  ? Wray &amp; Nephew White Overproof Rum has become a national icon thanks to our consumers , so we found it as our duty to give back as much Year with cash and prizes valued at over $30Million .  ? J. Wray and Nephew Limited understands the financial constraints and hardships being faced by many Jamaicans , so if we can provide essentials in the form of cash and phone credit to lessen their burden , we are happy to do so . Everyone deserves a chance at financial mobility , and everyone deserves to live in a home that they own one day .  ? We are looking forward to a busy Christmas , as we believe that thousands of consumers will be taking part in our Q is The Key promotion , especially for the chance to win one of two WIHCON modern houses in the final jackpot draw. ?  In Wray ? s Q Is The Key promotion , persons buy a 200ml-sized Wray &amp; Nephew White Overproof Rum Q , peel the back label , locate the seven-digit code and text this code to 444-WRAY . Instant winners will know if they have won either $200 in phone credit or $10,000 in cash . All entrants are placed in the pool to win in January 2015 . The two WIHCON homes to be won are located in the residential developments of the Meadows of Irwin in Montego Bay and the Jacaranda homes in St. Catherine . For updates on this promotion , persons can visit the brand ? s accounts on Facebook , Instagram , and Twitter : @WrayRum