Put Privy Council to referendum
http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20141130/cleisure/cleisure4.html

put privy council to referendum  in 1970 , the jamaica labour party ( jlp ) formed the government of jamaica . at a regional heads of government meeting , the jlp government proposed the caribbean court of justice ( ccj ) . there was conceived the organisation that has continued to occupy our thoughts and generate conflicting opinions to this day . it was , however , not the first proposal that we leave the judicial committee of the privy council in the uk .  on april 16 , 2005 , the ccj was born and took up residence at 134 henry street , port-of-spain , trinidad . for the ccj to have substance , 14 countries , including jamaica , contributed to the trust fund that assures the financial viability of the ccj . jamaica paid in us$27 million . only trinidad and tobago paid more , some us$29 million .  there has been the argument made that this court reflects ' us ' - this mythical being called the caribbean person - yet , from its inception , this has not been been ' foreigners ' sitting on the court . the irony of trumpeting the necessity to leave the judicial committee of the privy council is that the ccj is part foreign-leaning and does not understand life in jamaica .  david hayton , a judge , one of seven , is from the uk . jacob wit , a judge , is from the netherlands antilles . the court did not , in 2005 , have a jamaican jurist on the panel . it has one now . imagine , jamaica paid more than 25 per cent of its cost and had no representation . caricom certainly made it clear from day one that it did not need us , but needed our money .  structurally deficient  the court is structurally deficient . what recourse is open to an aggrieved party where the court , in its original jurisdiction , rules and the defaulting state refuses to enforce the decision of the ccj ? answers ? none ! haiti and suriname are civil-law jurisprudence . how will it be all right to stretch the jurisprudence of this court to , as well as haiti and suriname ? grenada and antigua &amp; barbuda must have a referendum to make the final decision . others have super majorities of their parliament as the final arbiter . trinidad has announced it will have a referendum . jamaica is having the debate .  the pnp administration has a phobia of referenda . the events of 1961 gave rise to this . however , the old dear departed of the pnp has left an infection which accounts for its fear of a politicised referendum for jamaica . all referenda are politicised . this is particularly pronounced in cases where the competing political forces align to different sides of the referendum question .  currently , we have the pnp stating that money is an issue for us to establish our own final appellate court . does this imply that the jamaican economy does not have real prospects for growth and viability to afford an instrument of national significance ? let the people decide .  nominally independent  we are nominally independent , and at the time of independence , we deferred the major must move forward with full independence , not southward to port-of-spain and georgetown . we have been forced-fed this caricom drivel . notice , it has not benefited us . trinidad breaches the rules regarding the origin for petroleum products , the single largest dollar value of our imports from them , yet that republic ignores attempts at resolution . they forget the money rather than engage . they treat jamaica with scant regard .  i declare that i am totally anti-caricom . i want to see its final and total demise . do not respond with the red herring that small island states can not survive alone in this geopolitical world . i never said we would go it alone . just not go with caricom .  i am prepared to take the fight to the diaspora . i want the people to say , once and for all , if they want to be governed in jamaica or georgetown , or port-of-spain . you were handed a caricom community passport . you were assessed a charge for the court . you have been refused entry and deemed accused of being major contributor of crime in trinidad , and the breaking up of relationships among individuals in barbados .  let the people decide .  i am a democrat . the collective wisdom of my people will be sufficient for me to fall in line if the ccj is approved . i will be a most vigorous opponent at this stage . let the people decide .  the british have hinted that we should leave the privy council . let us , in response , set a timetable for the creation and funding of a reserve for a jamaican final appellate court , should it be five or 10 years .  set the date for the referendum . put the sole question to the electorate : let the voice of the people be heard . have faith in the collective decision . this is my plea to portia simpson miller and the reluctant pnp . have some pride in jamaican sovereignty .