Doctor's ADVICE:Defeating premature ejaculation
http://jamaica-gleaner.com/gleaner/20141129/life/life1.html

Doctor 's ADVICE:Defeating premature ejaculation  Q. Hello . I 'm a guy of 20 , and I have been having a serious problem of late . You see , I have been masturbating from quite a young age ( maybe 14 ) , and I think I 'm now a ' premature ejaculation ' patient . Doc , I would love you to help me in any way you can - preferably suggesting a form of medication that would help me with my problem . It is causing difficulties in my relationship .  A. I 'm sure it is . Premature ejaculation ( PE ) makes having satisfactory sex very difficult . It makes women feel frustrated , and it has wrecked many young people 's romantic relationships .  Let me just get that business of masturbation out of the way . As I have stated in this column before , the only way in which masturbation can harm your sex life is if you get in the habit of doing it very quickly . That tends to kind of ' condition ' a lead to premature ejaculation .  So if you are still masturbating , you should take care to do it only slowly , always making sure that you do not climax in less than 15 minutes . Experts say that this ' re-trains ' a guy , so that he starts to feel in control of his own orgasms .  Now , today , at the age of 20 , you are in a relationship with a young woman and are trying to have successful sex with her . But you say that you think that you are a premature ejaculator .  Are you really ? If you can ' last ' for 10 or 15 minutes , then you are not . But if you find yourself accidentally climaxing after only a minute or two inside the young lady , then you definitely are .  So if you have PE , what can be done about it ? Well , in my view , the two best ways of defeating it are :  The ' stop-start ' technique ;  The Masters-Johnson squeeze grip .  , but essentially , they are ways of helping a guy to get full mental control of his ejaculations so that he does n't have to discharge until he is really ready to do so .  Now , you ask me to suggest a form of medication . That is quite tricky because there is actually no medication that will genuinely cure a guy 's PE .  However , there are quite a few medications that a man can use that will ' delay ' him on that particular day . They are :  Antidepressant drugs : Some doctors in Jamaica will prescribe these pills to guys with PE because of the fact that certain antidepressants make it difficult to reach a climax . The one that is most frequently prescribed is called Anafranil ( also known as Clomipramine ) . Please bear in mind that its effect lasts only for a day or so , and it does have side effects .  Dapoxetine is a drug which is related to the antidepressants . The idea is that you take it two or three hours before sex , dizziness , and ' operations ' . There are now some pharmacies in Jamaica that will obtain it for you , but it is expensive .  Local anaesthetic creams and sprays : The idea is that you put them on your penis before sex , thus dulling the sensation you feel . That sounds like a great idea , but there can be problems . First , you may develop a painful ' sensitivity reaction ' to the drug .  Second , the local anaesthetic may dull your partner 's sensation , too ! And it could give her a sensitivity reaction .  Condoms containing local anaesthetic : These are slightly preferable , in my view , because at least the local anaesthetic is inside , so it is unlikely to affect the girl . To find out more , type the words ' Long-last condoms ' , on Google .  I wish you well , young man !  Q. Doc , last week I had sex with a guy for the first time in my life , and I did not enjoy it at It hurt me a little and I was slightly sore for the next few days . It certainly as was n't exciting as I had expected . What does all this mean , doctor ? Am I , perhaps , a lesbian ?  A. I very much doubt it . Like a lot of young women , you have now discovered that ' first sex ' is n't as wonderful as it 's alleged to be .  Often , it is painful , damp , and frustrating . Very frequently , it is over before you know that you 've started !  But cheer up ! In some years from now , when you have established a loving relationship with a guy who knows what he is doing , you will find sex a delightful experience .  Just at this moment , there are two things I would like you to remember :  1 . You may be pregnant , so if your menses do n't arrive , please do a pregnancy test ;  2 . The guy may have given you chlamydia , or any doubt , go and get yourself tested for STIs.