Kate Gosselin 'dating millionaire businessman Jeff Prescott from ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2893678/Kate-Gosselin-dating-millionaire-businessman-Jeff-Prescott-Tennessee.html

kate gosselin may have found her dream man who can handle her life and kids .  the 39-year-old kate plus 8 star is said to be dating 51-year-old millionaire businessman jeff prescott , based in brentwood , tennessee , e ! news is reporting .  kate 's relationship with the divorced father-of-three reportedly began in october , and she was spotted on low-key outings with him in new york city between taking care of her large brood and shooting the upcoming season of celebrity apprentice .  scroll down for video  new man : kate gosselin ( pictured in 2012 ) is said to be dating 51-year-old millionaire businessman jeff prescott from brentwood , tennessee  gosselin might be in luck too , as prescott apparently not only has children of his own but reaches out to help other needy youngsters too .  he is ceo and co-founder of dreamstime , a company that provides digital and stock images to publications , ad agencies and film and tv companies among others .  the right stuff : the divorced father-of-three is ceo of low-key love life : the kate plus 8 star has apparently been dating prescott for months and enjoyed low-key dates with him in nyc  dreamstime was worth between $25 million to $30 million , as prescott previously revealed to the nashville business journal .  after her divorce from jon gosselin in 2009 , kate knew it would be challenging to find the right partner ' brave ' enough to handle her big , boisterous brood .  ' if there 's anyone out there who wants to deal with us , that would be good , ' kate told e ! news iin 2011 .  mr. ' titanium ' : kate divorced jon gosselin in 2009 when they were pictured at a tlc event and afterwards lamented that a man would have to be built of ' titanium ' to handle her hectic life  the divorc ? e and the bodyguard : kate was shadowed for years by her married bodyguard steve neild  ' i do n't think that i look for a future person as far as , " come in , help me raise do that , that could be the right person , but it 's certainly not something i expect . '  she continued : ' it 's a shocking life . you can talk , talk , talk and to walk in my door and actually try that on and wear it , gosh , that 's going to have to be a brave person . '  kate went on to say that her dream man ' needs to be made of titanium . steel does n't cut it anymore . '  the sextuplets - aaden , collin , joel , leah , alexis and hannah are 10 , and twins cara and madelyn are 14 .  kate 's reality television career is also heating up as kate plus 8 returns for five specials beginning on january 13 .  in a new video clip teaser , the single mom battles to maintain order among her children on a family vacation , planning a birthday party for their dog and giving their home a makeover .  ' i feel so overwhelmed lately that it 's sometimes hard of the preview .  they 're back : kate plus 8 returns to tlc in five specials beginning on january 13