Ed Sheeran: from boy next door to biggest-selling artist of the year
http://www.theguardian.com/music/2015/jan/01/ed-sheeran-boy-next-door-biggest-selling-artist

nice guys finish last , so the saying goes . there is one man , though , whose recent chart success seems to challenge that maxim . official figures show that ed sheeran , who has persisted with his scruffy image and simple songwriting , was the biggest-selling artist of 2014 with his second album , x. he is britain 's biggest export since downton abbey .  sheeran , already the most searched-for male celebrity on google , may well see his career scale further heights in 2015 , with two grammy nominations and three nights at wembley stadium in july -- two of which are sold out . performing with only a backing band , loop pedal and an acoustic guitar , he is about to pull off the biggest busk of all time .  so how did sheeran , a relatively normal bloke , making relatively normal music , manage to become britain 's biggest-selling artist ?  niceness alone , of course , does n't account for his blockbuster success with album x ; it sold 1.7m copies in 2014 in britain mark , and has had over 430m streams worldwide since its release in june -- more than any other artist globally . perhaps it is more thanks to sheeran 's skills in balancing his guise as the bastion of shabby student authenticity with the role of mercurial businessman -- not to mention a fierce sense of underdog ambition .  ed sheeran poses with singers taylor swift and ariana grande and victoria 's secret models at a london fashion show in december . photograph : karwai tang/wireimage  a bit of luck helps , too . the initial spark for sheeran 's stratospheric success can be traced back to two chance events . the first occurred during an impromptu la trip in 2010 , which led to a friendship with the actor and musician jamie foxx . foxx saw sheeran play and ended up providing him with exposure in the us on his radio show , the foxxhole . that same year , sheeran 's music was noticed by the web mogul jamal edwards , whose online channel sb.tv has shone a light on the wealth of talent emerging from the collaborating with established grime artists including wiley , jme and sway , while he simultaneously worked the grind of indie venues in london , performing 300 shows in 2010 alone .  with opportunities opening in both the us and uk , sheeran was able to establish fans on both sides of the atlantic -- an accomplishment many musicians are unable to crack throughout the duration of their career .  george ergatoudis , head of music for radio 1 and 1xtra , believes sheeran 's ability to straddle a multitude of modern genres makes him stand out . " he switches between folk music and black music in a unique way ... no one else channels eminem and damien rice simultaneously like he can , " he says .  such careful cultural curation appeals to a range of ages , genres and genders , and allows sheeran to be playlisted on radio 1 , radio 2 and bbc 1xtra . the latter channel named him the most powerful artist on its annual power list -- a choice that triggered controversy , given 1xtra 's description as the " black the indie crowd and pop audiences -- the singer has toured with taylor swift -- sheeran 's honeyed vocals and dalliance with rap styles has also helped increase his trajectory in the us , where hip hop and r&amp;b is a far more lucrative business than in britain . this year he collaborated with rapper the game and appeared on the cover of the influential rap magazine vibe .  ed sheeran - you need me , i do n't need you  although much rap music can be about bragging , intrinsic to sheeran 's aesthetic is his ability to appear everyday . material on his debut album , + , had an obsession with promoting his allegiance to reality ( " selling cds from my rucksack aiming for the majors/nationwide tour with just jack/still had to get the bus back " ) , and his twitter feed is a constant source of disarming truths , such as " doing the victoria secrets fashion show tonight and i 'm eating a greggs sausage roll in the dressing room " .  doing the victoria secrets fashion show tonight and i  eric clarke , professor of music at oxford university , thinks this is a potent attribute for an artist in 2014 . " his boy-next-door image -- not very good looks but a perfectly nice guy -- and the song thinking out loud , with its reflections on getting older and fidelity and love in a fairly conventional context , is a slight counter-blast to fast-living celebrity culture . "  this sense of self-imposed legitimacy also taps into the kind of heartfelt testimonies found on x factor .  according to the book faking it : the quest for authenticity in popular music , there are three kinds of authenticity in music 's history : cultural authenticity ( appearing true to your culture ) , personal authenticity ( appearing true to yourself ) , and representational authenticity ( not " faking it " in terms of how you record your music ) .  hugh barker , the book 's co-author , says that cultural authenticity has become slightly less important over time as music is increasingly globalised . he says : " personal authenticity seems to be more were very few songs that directly referenced the writer 's life . that changed with songs by people like john lennon , james taylor , carole king -- and since that time autobiography has become ubiquitous , and is often used as a badge of authenticity . "  ed sheeran -- thinking out loud  a far more straightforward explanation for sheeran 's global impact lies within his songs . fiona bevan , the singer-songwriter who co-wrote one direction 's little things with sheeran , pins the copyable nature of his songs on the youth market 's current captivation with him .  she says : " because of the fact that ed plays solo guitar , and you can hear the acoustic guitar part on the records , the songs are accessible to people to learn to play at home . all his songs are so well written that you can strip away all the production and the songs still stand in their own right . i think the youtube generation gravitate towards this clear , seemingly simple songwriting when they want to cover their favourite songs , and incredible surge in awareness from fans on youtube making their own versions and spreading them far and wide . "  to others , sheeran 's ascent is baffling , perhaps even offensive to those who hoped that the voice of a new generation might be more revolutionary . in 2012 , the influential journalist caitlin moran tweeted : " if my kids ever tell me they like ed sheeran , i 'll put them in a sack and throw them in a canal . " sheeran 's response was to sidestep a potential social media spat by sending her " lots of hugs " via twitter , prompting regret and a grovelling offer of drinks on the part of moran . which just goes to show that you never should underestimate the potency of being nice .  most streamed artists 2014  1 ed sheeran  2 sam smith  3 arctic monkeys  4 eminem  5 calvin harris  6 coldplay  7 one direction  8 beyonc ?  9 katy perry  10 bastille  * this article was amended on 1 january 2015 . to keith negus , professor of musicology at goldsmiths , university of london . in fact , it was a professor of music at oxford university , eric clarke , who was interviewed and quoted . this has been corrected .