Father and son jailed for conning thousands out of elderly victims
http://www.getsurrey.co.uk/news/surrey-news/father-son-jailed-conning-thousands-8498867

The majority of their victims were women , aged in their 80s and 90s , but the pair also targeted a 97-year-old man .  They would stop their elderly victims close to their homes and claim they had come to collect payment for roofing work they had completed .  If the victim did not have cash , the pair would drive them to a bank to withdraw large sums of money .  Many of the victims suffered from memory impairment through dementia or Alzheimer 's .  The conmen also committed distraction burglaries on several occasions when they entered the victim 's house .  Chuter was sentenced to four years in prison for conspiracy to defraud . Webb was sentenced to three-and-a-half years for conspiracy to burgle , conspiracy to defraud and a stand-alone charge of fraud for a historic matter .  Detective Constable Kieran Doyle , from Operation Manhunt , said : " This pair showed absolutely no regard for their victims , some of whom they would follow from local shopping centres .  " They particularly preyed on older had been done to their property .  " Their behaviour really is the lowest of the low . "  Police are looking for Jessie Webb  A third man , 19-year-old Jessie Webb , also of The Paddocks , Virginia Water , is wanted in connection with the crimes .  Anyone with information is asked to contact the police by calling 101 , or anonymously through Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 .  The Surrey Advertiser , News &amp; Mail and Staines Informer are part of Trinity Mirror Southern , offering you unique access to our audience across the region online and in print .  We reach an average of 599,113* unique users a month with dedicated coverage of Guildford , Woking , Esher , Staines and the whole of Surrey  80% of our visitors** , who view an average of 2,616,228* page impressions every month , are in the desirable ABC1 socio-economic groups .  To book an advert with the our advertising team , call 01483 508700 or visit the Trinity Mirror Southern website **27;1087;TOOLONG for more **39;1116;TOOLONG for more information .  We access to our audience across the region online and in print ..  She has been editorial director of the online and print titles in Surrey and north-east Hampshire since 2007 . Marnie previously worked at the BBC as a producer for 5 Live , having moved to national radio from BBC Sussex and Surrey .