A State Of Trance Festival Was Impressive But Needed To Up The ...
http://www.hitthefloor.com/reviews/a-state-of-trance-700-festival-utrecht-210215-live-review/

since the nineties , pioneers of trance have entered the spotlight but faded into other genres as the industry has changed . armin van buuren however , has provided a consistently strong presence that has seen the trance community catapult into one of the most connected out there , thanks to the phenomenal event known as ' a state of trance ' .  since it was first conceived in 2001 , a state of trance has evolved into a weekly radio show that attracts over 20 million listeners , spread across more than 74 countries . every year , the show is celebrated in style as ' a state of trance ' visits countries all around the world , to bring the live show to hundreds of thousands , with state of the art production and a stellar line-up which makes it the number one trance event to attend .  a state of trance 700 was an important milestone and the first year an entirely new concept was introduced , the ' asot festival ' . the idea was simple , split the event into . after a warm-up show in sydney , the show in utrecht was the first of many , and home to armin van buuren , curating something we only anticipated as being ultra special .  the arena itself was completely indoors and the pure scale of the building was incredible , making the atmosphere completely perfect for an event of this scale . split into four stages , including two main stages , a ' who 's afraid of 138 ? ' stage for those fans wishing to party a little harder and a ' new talent ' stage to showcase the up and coming trance djs of the future , there really was a wide selection available .  as we arrived to find our bearings , skimming from stage to stage , it became quite clear where we wanted to spend most of our time . the two main stages offered a significantly ramped up production on the other two , with mainstage one offering the most in terms of visuals . as big fans of the anjunabeats label , mainstage two offered the most appealing line-up initially , with a mash-up of audien 's ' wayfarer ' and above &amp; beyond 's ' sun &amp; moon ' provoking the strongest of reactions from the crowd , which we must say , we were n't too impressed with throughout the entire event . there was a lot of people there just stood still , with very little dancing happening . as we moved to mainstage one again to see cosmic gate , we could clearly see why .  " mainstage one is full "  while there was the potential to expand this stage to a wider area , this message became commonplace throughout the night . we attempted to wait for thirty minutes to get in , but security were keeping a strict admission policy to those with deluxe tickets only . as a result , we were unable to enter mainstage one on several occasions , which is why mainstage two became the main focus for our review .  the production here was nowhere near to the scale of mainstage one , however the line-up made up for it . as gareth emery took to as one of the best trance sets of all time executed , to the wildest crowd reaction we saw all night . as his set drew to a close , armin van buuren stepped up to the decks where the crowd continued to party hard . everyone had finally come out of their cage , and the night had begun in style , albeit a few hours too late !  the night soon drew to a close at 07:00 , following a great set from aly &amp; fila , who played a tonne of exclusives which left positive memories of the event in our minds . this was also the first time we could get access to mainstage one .  as for the line-up , it was great but prior to the event , the asot team surveyed people on facebook to see who they would like their the most . gareth emery , above &amp; beyond and dash berlin featured the most , but only gareth emery made an appearance . this was potentially due to conflicts with ultra festival happening at the same time in buenos aires of america .  all in all , a state of trance 700 ' asot festival ' , was nothing short of impressive . compared to previous events however , we feel as though there should have just been the one main stage , with capacity significantly increased .