Biological mother of Rosie O'Donnell's eldest daughter claims Rosie ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3011256/Biological-mother-Rosie-O-Donnell-s-eldest-daughter-claims-Rosie-STOLE-baby-comedian-knew-addicted-heroin-unable-agree-adoption.html

claims : deanna micoley has made the sensational allegation that rosie o'donnell knew her decision making was impaired by her heroin problem and therefore was unable to agree to giving up her newborn daughter for adoption in 1997  the biological mother of rosie o'donnell 's eldest daughter has claimed the controversial comedian took advantage of her drug addiction to ' steal ' her newborn child away from her .  in an explosive interview , deanna micoley , 37 , says ex the view host rosie , 53 , should not have been able to take her girl because o'donnell knew she signed off on the adoption while high on heroin .  speaking to the national enquirer , deanna accuses o'donnell of stealing her baby girl who is now 17 and claims that she is back in contact with her daughter who now hates the multi-millionaire .  ' i believe rosie o'donnell knew that i was in no condition to sign away my parental rights to my daughter , ' said deanna to the enquirer .  ' she did the worst thing one ! '  according to deanna , she was unhappily married when she gave birth in august 1997 to a little girl she named kayla .  she allegedly claims that two months after the birth her husband fed her heroin and forced her to put kayla up for adoption .  ' i may not have been the best mother back then , ' said deanna to the national enquirer .  ' i did drugs and i have a criminal record because of it . but surely i did n't deserve to have my baby stolen from me . '  now recovered from her drug fight and living in wisconsin , she has re-married and is the mother of four children .  however , she is insistent that what she wants most is to welcome home her first child .  mother and superstar : rosie o'donnell , center , and her children parker and chelsea arrive at the opening night performance of the broadway musical ' american idiot ' in new york in 2010  deanna was stunned to reconnect with the daughter she claims she managed to find micoley 's father - her biological grandfather .  rosie o'donnell 's response  o'donnell 's publicist cindi berger said that her client absolutely legally adopted chelsea from the non-profit children of the world in new jersey in 1997 .  ' the agency never would have accepted the baby if the birth mother was under the influence , ' said berger .  ' there are notarized adoption papers signed by the birth mother and father that were accepted by both the adoption agency and the court .  ( my client ) ' is unbearably proud of chelsea and has encouraged and supported chelsea 's desire to communicate with her birth mother . how disappointing that chelsea 's birth mother would go public with this personal story without ever having met rosie . '  ' he called me and broke the news . it was the moment i 'd been waiting and praying for the last 17 years - i 'd found my precious daughter . '  over the past few months , deanna and chelsea have been in contact through facebook and text revealed she is having problems with her adoptive mother .  ' chelsea has told me she had issues with rosie , ' said deanna to the enquirer .  ' i believe rosie has abandoned her . since about the age of 12 , rosie basically shipped off chelsea to different boarding schools . '  when asked why she was given up for adoption , deanna said she told chelsea the truth .  ' i said her daddy was n't a good person and she was basically given up to an adoption agency , ' said micoley .  family ties : the resemblance between chelsea as a young girl and her half-sister ( seen right in a picture from deann 's facebook page ) is undeniable  together : in an undated photo , blake and chelsea appear with their adoptive mother rosie o'donnell on a balcony  deanna also claims that o'donnell is trying to turn her adopted daughter against her biological mom .  the emmy award winning comedian allegedly wrote a message to deanna saying that her fame was ' superhuman ' and that  ' rosie even hired someone to dig up my criminal record and gave it to chelsea , ' said deanna to the enquirer .  deanna also shared some of the exchanges she has been having with o'donnell .  in them o'donnell refutes the adoption was a sham and asks her to stop claiming otherwise .  " it was all legal . like it or not . now stop . "  deanna claims they had exchanges in which o'donnell referenced paying for her and her husband 's living expenses and even bought them a tv .  these revelations are just the latest bombshell to hit o'donnell and her checkered family history .  the outspoken lgbt and adoption advocate first adopted son parker in 1995 as a single mother . she then adopted chelsea in 1997 .  she produced a hbo documentary special called a family is a family is a family five years ago which examined the growth in non-traditional families and societies changing perception of the family unit .  in the early 00s , o'donnell and partner kellie carpenter fostered a child the time , florida 's law prohibited gay couples from adopting - which deeply affected her views on the process across the country .