Kapow! Attack of the feminist superheroes
http://www.theguardian.com/books/2015/mar/25/feminist-superheroes-she-hulk-ms-marvel-thor

kapow ! attack of the feminist superheroes  from she-hulk to ms marvel and the new female thor , a new generation of hero is revolutionising the world of comics and consigning sexualised stereotypes to history . and while some of the ' fan boys ' are grumbling , this is a battle they just wo n't win  the action in issue five of the new series of thor is par for the course in a superhero comic . absorbing man , a granite-coloured lug with a wrecking ball , is on a crime spree and thor , the norse thunder god who joined the marvel comics universe in 1962 , is trying to stop him . the crucial difference in this series is that thor is now a woman .  the scene is writer jason aaron 's pointed riposte to the uproar last summer when marvel announced that the mantle of thor would pass to a woman and some aggrieved male fans accused the company of pandering to political correctness . for people outside the comic-book world , the backlash seemed to confirm the comic book guy from the simpsons .  in fact , a seismic upheaval is under way . the new thor is outselling her predecessor by 30% -- and she 's in good company . three years ago , writer kelly sue deconnick promoted the former ms marvel , carol danvers , to captain marvel , whose adventures have attracted a loyal cadre of fans called the carol corps . charles soule reinvented she-hulk in a witty series that explored her day job as a lawyer . most significantly , there is g willow wilson 's new ms marvel , a 16-year-old pakistani-american muslim called kamala khan . the book has become a cultural phenomenon , covered by cnn , the new york times and the colbert report , and embraced by campaigners against islamophobia in san francisco , who plastered over anti-muslim bus adverts with kamala stickers . wilson is currently co-writing an all-female avengers book , a-force , with marguerite bennett .  marvel 's " big two " rival dc , meanwhile , has refreshed old female characters such as batwoman , batgirl , catwoman , wonder woman more progressive world of independent comics , there are socially diverse hit series such as saga , rat queens , lumberjanes and the wicked + the divine .  now that superheroes have taken over the summer box office , what happens in comics has major ramifications for mainstream culture . these are the characters that kids grow up with -- on world book day , primary schools teem with pint-sized spider-men -- and adults flock to see . the macho lineup of recent movies ( no woman has headlined a comic-book film since catwoman and elektra flopped a decade ago ) makes the genre appear immutably male , but warner bros has green-lit a long-overdue showcase for dc 's original feminist crimefighter wonder woman , while marvel has scheduled a captain marvel movie for 2018 . there are also new tv shows devoted to captain america 's wartime colleague peggy carter , superpowered private detective jessica jones , and supergirl .  the speed of change has surprised even the writers . wilson , who is a muslim convert , remembers when marvel editors sana amanat and stephen wacker approached ' we want to create a new teenage female american muslim superhero and put her on her own book . ' i thought , ' you 're insane . you 'll need to hire an intern just to open the hate mail . ' so when , all of a sudden , everybody was talking about it , i was stunned . i believe that if we 'd tried to do the exact same book even five years ago the response would have been very different . it 's coming at a very particular time in the history of american comics . "  when marvel was expanding rapidly in the 1970s , female superheroes were often afterthoughts , cynically created as brand extensions : spider-man begat spider-woman , hulk begat she-hulk , and so on .  " there was an adam 's rib effect , " says sean howe , author of the bestselling marvel comics : the untold story . " it was n't just that these characters were less well thought-out than their male counterparts ; they were actually derived from their popular holdings . " ( that the female thor is n't called " she-thor or lady thunderstrike " . )  back then , both the readership and creative roster were overwhelmingly male . while long-time x-men writer chris claremont introduced compelling new women such as storm , rogue and kitty pryde , their popularity within a team did n't translate into solo success .  rat queens : one of the new generation of female-led comics . photograph : image comics  ann nocenti was claremont 's editor before becoming one of marvel 's few female writers . her first assignment was to kill off spider-woman .  " female characters were absolutely seen as secondary , " she says . " i ca n't tell if i was just oblivious to sexism and misogyny , but i do n't remember any weird feelings . not at all . but you would try a female character and the sales would go down . it 's a chicken-and-egg thing .  why did female superheroes fail ? maybe because nobody was writing for women . i never thought i was writing for women . that was characters such as nocenti 's typhoid mary , a subversive riff on old female stereotypes , and claremont 's female x-men were rare exceptions . superheroines such as black widow and the mutant pop star dazzler usually played second fiddle , while many artists pandered to adolescent fantasies , drawing superpowered playmates with wasp-waists , dd busts and frankly impractical costumes . " an artist would come in with samples and sometimes i 'd look at them and think y'know , i do n't think this guy has a girlfriend or respects women , " nocenti remembers .  marguerite bennett , who co-writes the thor spin-off angela : asgard 's assassin with kieron gillen , remembers being frustrated as a young reader . " i could n't quite articulate why certain things felt off to me , " she writes via email . " many women were obviously one-dimensional : perfect girlfriends , nagging shrews , femmes fatales -- tragic , scorned , disposable women . but even with living heroines , something felt sour and discordant . these heroines were capable , competent , fearless , and yet they male validation . most of western literature focuses on male power fantasies . no one much cares about what a female power fantasy would be . "  most of western literature focuses on male power fantasies . no one much cares about what a female power fantasy would be  with depressing regularity , female characters were raped , tortured , maimed or killed in order to spur male heroes into action . in 1999 , gail simone , a pioneering figure for the current generation of female writers , documented this trope on the website women in refrigerators . kelly sue deconnick invoked another household object when she told comics alliance in 2012 : " never mind the bechdel test , try this . if you can replace your female character with a sexy lamp and the story still basically works , maybe you need another draft . they have to be protagonists , not devices . " for decades , too many female characters failed the sexy lamp test . so why the sudden change ?  last year 's big comic conventions reported approximate gender parity , as fast as male ones . dc co-publisher jim lee recently acknowledged that readers were " looking for a lot more flavours and diversity in our line than we 're currently doing " .  " it 's tough to expect corporations to be in the vanguard , " says howe . " but even the people looking at the bottom line have the sense that you should have something better to offer women than hourglass figures in spandex . "  howe suggests that some new readers have been drawn into the marvel universe by the onslaught of blockbuster movies . wilson notes the growing number of female retailers . but they agree that the biggest factor is the internet . twitter , tumblr and websites such as comics alliance and the mary sue , have enabled a more inclusive form of comic book fandom . all the female-led books sell better in digital format than in print .  " when i was a child , comics were relegated to stores that were clearly meant for adult men , " says bennett . " all the same , i , and love of those characters provoked me into finding alternate routes to access comics .  on the internet , we could have a community of our own . girls are growing up among these characters . why should n't they be welcome ? "  ann nocenti left the comic book industry in the 90s but returned in 2012 , taking over dc 's catwoman . her first convention in years was an eye-opener . " i looked around and i thought : ' this is half women , half men ! ' it was completely different . i think if i could go back and start writing catwoman again my stories would be different . i was n't aware there was such a strong female audience . "  even though the proportion of female creators continues to hover around just 10% , this demographic shift in readership has also changed the way characters are depicted . the costumes designed for captain marvel and ms marvel by jamie mckelvie , who draws the wicked + the divine , are striking and attractive -- they 're superheroes after all playful illustrations for charles soule 's she-hulk were a breath of fresh air for a character who had spent decades looking like a fitness model .  " she-hulk has sometimes been portrayed as something of a glamorous , sexy , amazon type , " soule writes via email . " i just presented an extremely competent attorney and superhero who happened to be a beautiful , 7ft-tall green woman . massively sexualised images of women in mainstream superhero comics are often held up for ridicule these days , which i do n't think would have happened as much even 10 years ago . "  " people can no longer say : ' well it 's just you , you 're being oversensitive , ' " says wilson . " there 's a critical mass of people who say : ' yo , it 's not really ok to portray a 16-year-old girl like a porn star . ' "  the readership is growing and changing and they want to see their stories represented as well  even so , feminist critics such as asselin routinely receive vicious abuse its own , milder version of the gamergate wars that have convulsed the gaming community , as an angry minority of male fans push back at what they perceive as killjoy political correctness . breitbart 's gamergate cheerleader milo yiannopoulos claims that comics have been hijacked by " ultra-progressive misandrists who basically hate their own core audiences " . some older creators agree . the artist erik larsen , co-owner of independent publisher image comics , recently grouched on twitter : " i 'm tired of the big two placating a vocal minority at the expense of the rest of the paying audience by making more practical women outfits . "  wilson faced a similar reactionary backlash when ms marvel was announced . " i see why they feel threatened , " she says . " they think that there 's a movement afoot to do away with straight , white , male characters all together . obviously that 's not true . the people who love comics today grew up reading all of that stuff . nobody 's talking about tearing it all down and beginning from scratch . and changing and they want to see their stories represented as well . "  the success of ms marvel and captain marvel has little to do with identity politics and everything to do with great storytelling . when carol danvers had her first solo book as ms marvel in 1977 ( " this female fights back ! " ) , she was burdened with being marvel 's token feminist role model : a superpowered gloria steinem . the new ms marvel , however , is an ordinary adolescent wrestling with parents and school as well as the responsibility of superpowers . fifty-three years after stan lee created spider-man , it 's hard for a straight , white man like peter parker to represent the gawky underdog . like the half-black half-latino miles morales , who became a second spider-man in 2011 , kamala khan is a modern take on a classic archetype .  " we did n't want a model minority book where the whole purpose is to walk around and represent what it 's like to be a south-asian muslim in america , " says wilson . " been a teenager . "  far from being didactic , these comics honour some of marvel 's first principles . in the 1960s , superheroes such as spider-man outshone dc 's superman and batman by having rich , uncostumed lives , with money worries and romantic angst . when the uncanny x-men became a phenomenon in the early 80s , chris claremont used anti-mutant bigotry as a metaphor for racism and homophobia . these heroes all felt different . decades later , introducing more lgbt characters and superheroes of colour makes narrative sense . because the superhero comics industry largely relies on constantly reinventing characters that were created decades ago , it is uniquely well-placed to mirror social change .  " there 's a bit of catchup going on , " says howe . " and yet when you look at stuff like ms marvel you can see that comics can also advance attitudes beyond the status quo . i 'm glad that marvel movies did n't find their greatest success at a time when marvel comics were filled with enhanced breasts and shrinking hips . "