'Cecil Rhodes' colonial legacy must fall - not his statue'
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/mar/25/south-africa-rhodesmustfall-statue

It 's obvious that Cecil John Rhodes is not someone to admire by today 's standards and the events of last week -- when South African students threw a bucket of excrement over his statue at the University of Cape Town ( UCT ) -- only serve to highlight this .  The protest prompted furious discussion across the country as to history 's place in the present , with the dean of UCT finally announcing yesterday that the removal of the statue had been approved by senior leadership .  " UCT is an argumentative university . This is an abiding strength and undoubtedly , the students are leading a national debate , " he said .  Rhodes was born in 1853 and went on to become one of the world 's wealthiest men and the premier of Cape Colony in 1890 . But he is also responsible for the beginnings of enforced racial segregation policies in South Africa , with his early drafting of the Natives Land Act which later came into effect in 1913 .  Upon his death in 1902 Rhodes donated of the best universities in the country . Aware of this history , protesters called for the statue 's removal from the centre of the campus with a well-organised #Rhodesmustfall campaign , arguing that the institution should become " more African " . Some even called for his remains to be exhumed and sent back to the UK .  South Africa does indeed have a responsibility to redress previous atrocities and injustices , but does this have to be done in a way that edits and distorts history ?  Critical issues facing SA right now : poverty , crime , corruption , education . Wdnt it be nice if ppl were worked up by those ? #RhodesMustFall  Protesters have said the statue stands for white supremacy , racism , imperialism , and the oppression of the black African majority . Discontent spread to Rhodes University in Grahamstown , too .  A student representative , Siyanda Makhubo , told the South African press that the name of the Grahamstown university needed to be changed : " Rhodes is a symbol of our past . But it looks like , " Makhubo said .  These views of Rhodes ' history are legitimate , as much of his wealth was acquired by despicable methods that often involved forcefully evicting African people from their land .  Dr Max Price , vice chancellor of UCT , summed up the contradictions by saying that although Rhodes was considered a " great man " and " great politician " the attitudes and means he used " were not right " .  As a black alumnus who walked past that statue for four years , I think Rhodes should be left exactly where he is  " He was racist . He used power and money to oppress others . So on balance he was a villain , " Price told CityPress .  The statue of Rhodes at the University of Cape Town . Photograph : Schalk van Zuydam/AP  For many students , the statue is not just a simple reminder of Rhodes ' former power . It 's as much a symbol of his dubious past as his financial donation , and highlights South Africa 's problematic history -- something black UCT alumnus who walked past that statue for four years , I think Rhodes should be left exactly where he is . Removing him omits an essential part of the institution 's history that has contributed to everything good , bad and ugly about it -- and arguably the country too .  There 's really no need for statues to remember colonialism , apartheid &amp; its key figures.Their work is evident in our lives . #RhodesStatue  UCT is no different to the majority of South African institutions that were established before the first democratic election in 1994 . All of them have inherited problems from previous regimes and all of them inadequately reflect the demographic profile of the country .  In light of yesterday 's announcement , we must ask : where do we draw the line when editing the history and figures who have played an influential role in South Africa 's narrative ? Who decides -- and how -- on what stays and what goes ?  A good example is that of Shaka Zulu , a significant figure in South Africa 's past who neighbouring Xhosa , Sotho and Swati people of their land .  Removing these symbols of the past does not change the future  As a Xhosa person flying through an airport named in his honour -- the King Shaka International Airport near Durban -- this presents a similar dilemma . But this does n't mean I think his place in history be edited out .  These include little or no focus on African philosophies and perspectives , a student body that does n't adequately reflect the country 's demographic profile and a predominance of white male academics .  The same amount of energy that has been used to campaign for #Rhodesmustfall should be put into championing faster transformation . We should be fighting for a more just and sound education system , better access to student funding and the building of more universities promised by the government .  These campaigns can lead to real change -- not the removal of a statue .  Siya Mnyanda is a politics and philosophy major from the University of Cape Town and currently works in the private sector