Hams¡k named Slovakian player of the year - News - UEFA.com
http://www.uefa.com/memberassociations/association=svk/news/newsid=2229424.html

the ssc napoli midfielder defended last year 's title to draw level with martin ? krtel 's record in an annual poll organised by slovakian daily newspaper pravda in cooperation with the slovak football association ( sfz ) .  ham ? ? k and ? krtel are the only winners of the prize over the past eight years ; ham ? ? k taking the honours in 2009 , 2010 and 2013 , with ? krtel doing likewise in 2007 , 2008 , 2010 and 2012 . " now it 's a draw , " ham ? ? k joked to the defender at the awards event . he added : " i appreciate it very much . i have to thank my wife and my two lovely children , my team-mates in the national team and at napoli , as well as my coaches , " said the 27-year-old during saturday evening 's gala .  the accolade caps a fantastic year for former ? k slovan bratislava and brescia calcio man ham ? ? k , particularly given the success of the national side in uefa euro 2016 qualifying in which they lead group c ahead of spain and ukraine . j ? n koz ? k 's men are moving close to reaching the finals of a uefa european championship for the first time since slovakia 's independence .  however , ham ? ? k will not be distracted by the mathematics of the group table . " we ca n't afford to do that -- we just need to keep this run of form going . we had a good start and it would be a huge pity to spoil it . we are all desperate to play in france in 2016 , " added ham ? ? k , who pipped ? krtel by just 17 points -- the second-smallest margin in the history of the poll . " i hope there are many more years of football left for me and i wish martin the same , " concluded ham ? ? k , who lifted the 2014 coppa italia and italian super cup with napoli .  the uefa word , the uefa logo and all marks related to of uefa . no use for commercial purposes may be made of such trade marks . use of uefa.com signifies your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy .