With a smart promise of free childcare, the Tories have finally ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/conservative/11534988/With-a-smart-promise-of-free-childcare-the-Tories-have-finally-stopped-kowtowing-to-the-stay-at-home-mothers-brigade.html

James Kirkup says the Conservative manifesto pledge of 30 hours a week of free childcare shows the party has finally come to terms with modern British life  The Conservative promise of 30 hours a week of free childcare for 3- and 4-year-olds is big news , bigger than the Right to Buy , bigger than tax cuts . Working parents are now the No 1 target for the Conservative re-election effort .  Yes , there will be questions about how the Tories will fund it : will their tax raid on the pension contributions of high-earners really cover the cost ? And doubtless some will wonder if there are sufficient providers .  But that 's secondary . The main point is that the Conservatives have decided to reach out to working parents and say , " We get it . We understand the hassle and difficulty of combining children and work . "  Cameron launches Tory manifesto  The unspoken message : " We know you think Tories are rich men who are n't be bothered about this stuff because we have nannies home , but actually , we do understand . "  The usual election promise caveat applies , of course : no pledge made 20-odd days before voting is likely to fundamentally transform any party 's image . But just as it was smart for Labour to finally address its economic credibility problem , it 's smart for the Tories to reach out to working parents in an attempt to address their " people like us " problem .  The Conservative childcare pledge is important for another reason too . For a long time , the Tories have tied themselves up in knots about the question of work and children . Even though the party 's leadership believes that it would be a good thing , economically and socially , if more women with children were to work , Tories have been wary of making that case .  The reason for the caution is the party 's attachment to the notion that mothers should stay at home with their children instead of working . Tension with the stay-at-home mother ( SAHM , if you 're a Mumsnetter ) lobby Coalition government implemented , as " family values " Tories complain that single-earner families are not benefitting from things aimed at making lives easier for families where both parents work .  General Election 2015 - what are the possible outcomes ?  Listening to the SAHM lobby is rarely good politics for the Tories . It makes the party look old-fashioned and out-of-touch with modern life . Whatever the cause , whatever the rights and wrongs of it , more women are working : the employment rate for women is now 68.5 per cent , up from 56.9 per cent in 1980 . There 's also some evidence that being a single-earner household is increasingly the preserve of the very poor or the very rich : the majority of parents in the middle , by choice or necessity , both work .  Accepting these things does n't , incidentally , imply any judgement on those who do stay at home to raise their children . It simply means accepting facts for what they are .  Working and raising your children , at the same time - that is Conservatives have finally decided to get over their fear of the stay-at-home mother brigade and admit it .