Your favourite secret corners of the British countryside - mapped
http://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/tvandradioblog/2015/apr/14/your-favourite-secret-corners-of-the-british-countryside-mapped

last week was the start of a new series of secret britain , the bbc1 show where the corn-fed duo of adam henson and ellie harrison ferret out the forgotten corners of our countryside . cue plenty of sunlight sparkling through waterfalls and the word " amazing " .  to mark the first episode -- and to perhaps trump their selections -- we invited you to share your own secret parts of britain . hundreds of comments later , at least half of you harrumphed that you 'd be keeping your favourite place to yourself , thank you very much , lest it be overrun by quinoa-picnicking guardianistas . but just as many shared a wealth of fascinatingly obscure spots , from remote scottish islands to the industrial north-east , forgotten home counties villages and southwestern woodlands .  we 've collated all your suggestions and plotted them on the google map below -- zoom in and click on each entry to read what the commenter said about it . the best ( and sometimes positively poetic ) comments have been embedded further down . thanks really unusual picture of the uk -- just do n't all visit each place at once ...  rowarth , near stockport , on the old cheshire/derbyshire border . in fact , the whole area between mellor and new mills is truly magnificent . the roman lakes are so-so , bit too touristy for my liking , but has its moments .  you get a great view from the top of kinder scout , but you get some odd looks if you hold a champaign party there .  there 's nothing secret about morston marshes , salthouse or cley , but there are some delightful trails through the heathland thereabouts . the adders wo n't bother you unless you tread on them . i suggest walking the trails or cycling from the coast inland through holt ( great shops there ) to hunworth ( best pub in the area ) and around .  meavy , a largely-forgotten village in the south of england ( probably of its own doing ) is in a magnificent area . the meavy oak is the real reason britain has never been conquered honestly , never had much time for much of the british isles - overpopulated , touristy , massive destruction of heritage and landscape . a disgrace to the nation .  the ashdown forest - largest expanse of open heathland in the southeast , and the setting for the winnie the pooh books , but hardly anybody has heard of it . in particular gill 's lap , and the views over several counties from the broadstone carpark . the long mynd near church stretton in shropshire is better known , and beautiful .  a little sheltered spot on a permissive path/track between the shoulder of a moor with views across to the three peaks from the forest of bowland and another set of moors on the lancashire/yorkshire border . it has been a respite from the wind and a place to rest and have a flask cuppa or make hot food when on my bike a couple of times . that 's all you 're getting .  from the norwich to wroxham road in norfolk , turn right onto muck lane . drive through salhouse to woodbastwick ( the no through road sign - that 's where you are going . drive past the couple of houses and you are suddenly driving through the marshes . take care : off the edge of the road is deep bog . but at the far end you will find parking and the river , with a pub on the other side and holiday makers puttering up and down in their hire boats . get out and walk along the boardwalk to cockshoot broad . you will turn off the main river into a quiet , magical world . birds and dragonflies , trees with hanging moss , bees , ...  the best time ever to do this is on a frosty winter morning , when you may annoy the heron , but you wo n't meet anyone else .  brownsham woods , near clovelly in spring is lovely , a wander through beautiful bluebell woods with a stream meandering through it and then you come out high up on the coast path , facing the wild atlantic ocean , turn left and follow the coast path to clovelly , bench , right on the cliffs . i used to live near there and miss it very much . that whole north devon coastline is an absolute gem .  hastings country park : secret coves , wooded glens , sandstone fern and flowering gorse covered cliffs , secluded beaches , waterfalls , dinosaur footprints , wildflowers , views of france , beach head and white cliffs of dover , shetland ponies and highland cattle , and then down into the old town for fresh seafood and lively pubs .  wycollar dean , near trawden , lancashire . wild moorland sweeps down to pasture land replete with prehistoric stone walking . in the village , the beck runs through a cobbled ford in front of the ruins of wycoller hall , famed as fern dean manor in jane eyre . there are four bridges across the beck , including a single slab clapper bridge . beautiful country park that provides a gateway to some of the most wildly beautiful and historically fascinating countryside in england .  the ben alder area of the scottish highlands , on the west side to storm through at speeds where you are n't going to appreciate the beauty around you it 's the kind of place where you need to pack a tent and wild camp to see most of it .  it 's remote , it 's wild and you could easily spend days at a time without seeing another human , you 're more likely to see a stag . simply stunning .  on the main road between broseley and much wenlock , near barrow there is a layby . it leads to a permissive right of way through the wood . follow into a field with views towards bridgnorth . exit at the top and follow the lane past wild wood you go along what looks like an ancient path way with a stone bank on your left . eventually you meat the old border of willey estates . follow this down into willey village . quiet , unspoilt and you could be standing int he same spot 200 years ago . similarly just down the road is benthall edge . the quieter , but more beautiful cousin to wenlock the severn gorge . these woods are like an enchanted forest . you truly believe that fairies do exist here . in may the bluebells in benthall edge woods are more beautiful than anything you can imagine . on a lucky day , you can see a dear . walking through these woods is my happny place , and is more magical than anything else i 've ever known .  travelling north across rannoch moor the road takes a wee chicane to the right and then left , round a rocky outcrop . up on top of the rocks is a bench overlooking the moor , and some hidden pools and waterfalls . most people go whizzing past in their cars without even noticing it . i only noticed it as i huffed and puffed along on my fully laden bike on a camping trip . great little spot to stop and admire the view over the moor as people rush past far below , oblivious to the tranquility above .  my own private island - not that i own the land itself , but it belongs to me my version of yeats ' lake isle of inisfree . i can be there in an instant simply by closing my eyes , but even better is to actually be there , watching the lighthouse beams flash out as the sun sets over the irish sea , and listening for the first night time call of the manx shearwater . i 'm not telling you any more . if you know it , you 'll know where i mean .  i was on winchelsea beach last summer . the tide was out and had let the top layer of sand dry enough so when the wind picked up you got this otherworldly effect of ghoulish sand blowing across the surface .  not exactly secret but an extraordinary thing . in the midst of heavy industrial essex just off the a13 , downstream from crossness sewage treatment works , overlooked by the hs1 train line , sits rainham marshes rspb nature reserve on land that used to be a practice artillery range . i do n't work there , i 'm telling you because i 'd like it to keep of us in this part of the world .  i live in north northumberland too . my favourite place is down a forestry track in deepest kielder forest . then i slide down a bank covered in deep rich smelling moss . at the bottom is a perfect stream with small waterfalls and pools . in the summer it is dripping with green from ferns , moss and lichen that hangs off the trees like beards . there is no road noise . it is a small little place i like to sit and watch my dog pad about happily . i can spend five minutes there or an hour . no one else is ever there . it is as secret as i believe it can be .  the bowland area in western pennines , lancashire . the bare fells were amazing to a scandinavian who can not see the scenery for all the endless forests at home . and the hotel at whitewell served a lovely sunday lunch .  there may be quieter mountains in wales , but not many of them will enjoy such a by the more famous aran , arenig , rhinogydd and cadair idris ranges , it gets very little footfall , so you can sit alone on the rocky summit and enjoy looking at these busier mountains in peace , right in the middle of them .  many years ago i used to go fishing for sticklebacks in the river caldew . there is a spot there beside the river opposite cummersdale and just down the road from blackwell which is so heavenly peaceful and perfectly beautiful that i have promised myself that when my time comes i will sit me down with a bottle of scotch and some pain killers and simply float off into non-existence .  whitbarrow , south lakeland . a four mile long chunk of limestone with the most perfect , if windswept views of morecambe bay and the high fells of lakeland . carpeted by low clinging juniper bushes , limestone clints , and wind shaped ash and elder trees . coppiced woodland with bluebells rampant on the east slope and a sheer limestone cliff on the west . curlews and birds of prey circle vast summit plain . heaven when the skies are blue , with the cairn at lord 's seat being the perfect picnic and viewing spot . there are even natural limestone seats and rocks to shelter from the wind .  you 're allowed to rough camp on dartmoor but the trouble is most of it is too tussocky or rocky or wet to want to . however , i know an absolutely pristine and perfectly flat few square m of short cropped grass , right next to a leet where you have crystal clear water running off the moor to drink or cook with .  the farley water valley on exmoor near to the village of brendon . secluded , beautiful , peaceful . a place to spread yourself on the ground by the stream and stare at the sky . the odd sheep or cow might wander by and stop to ponder you for a moment before remembering that humans are infinitely less interesting than grass .  glen carnach in knoydart just round the corner from the sourlies bothy ... on a sunny day this place is camping and stunning vistas ... a fair few hours walk from any kind of civilisation ... if the shit hits the fan this is where you 'll find me !  there 's about 500 other spots on the north west coast of scotland i could mention as well !  any more for any more ? feel free to add any additional suggestions below .