Microsoft to preview the mobile version of Office for Windows 10 this ...
http://www.techradar.com/news/software/applications/microsoft-to-preview-the-mobile-version-of-office-for-windows-10-this-month-1291415

microsoft to preview the mobile version of office for windows 10 this month  some details have emerged  shares  if you 're a windows phone user and you 're eager to upgrade to windows phone 10 when it launches later this year , you 'll enjoy this news . microsoft will preview the mobile office suite for windows 10 by the end of april .  today 's glimpses of the upcoming mobile office suite reveal a new interface designed for bottom-of-the-screen navigation better suited for thumb clicks and drags . additionally , a new reading mode for word allows you to tap a document in order to have it fit entirely onto your device 's screen . this enables you to see an entire document without having to scroll between " pages . "  microsoft has also revealed that the office apps are n't built directly into windows 10 , but will be preinstalled on new windows phones after the operating system goes live . this will enable microsoft to update the software without having to completely overhaul the entire windows 10 system launch window for the windows 10 desktop and mobile os . in february , windows phone users who 'd enrolled in the windows insider program were eligible for a technical preview of the mobile build , which microsoft said would be consistent across smartphones , tablets , pcs , laptops , internet of things devices , and on the xbox .  however , microsoft promised to deliver a touch-focused office universal app designed specifically for smartphones and tablets , similar to mobile versions of office available for android and ios devices .  windows phone 8.1 users are eligible for a free upgrade to the mobile windows 10 os once it goes live . however , microsoft pulled a build of windows 10 technical preview for low-end lumia 520 , 525 , and 526 phones after users said their phones stopped working after installation , so it 's obvious windows 10 for phones is n't finalized just yet .