ENORMOUS supervolcano the size of Yellowstone found on Mars
http://www.express.co.uk/news/nature/579959/MASSIVE-Yellowstone-sized-supervolcano-Mars

a massive volcano has been ' found ' on mars - and it is similar to the enormous one on earth in the yellowstone national park .  the crater left by what was believed to have been a supervolcano on mars  a huge 24x18mi crater , which is more than a mile deep , has been spotted on images of the martian surface by european space agency ( esa ) experts .  several craters have been found in the northern highlands of the red planet before .  they are thought to have been left by eruptions three billion years ago but nothing has been spotted before on this scale .  on earth a super volcano , such as yellowstone , would produce more than 600 cubic mi of magma and block so much sunlight it could have a huge impact on the global climate .  the new " volcano " named siloe patera has two large craters , meaning there could have been two separate massive eruptions .  getty  the mars crater would have been left by a volcano  the arabia terra area of mars are calderas , the collapsed centres of volcanoes , but not just any volcanoes - these are thought to be martian super volcanoes  an esa spokesman  the pictures were taken by the high-resolution stereo camera on the esa mars express probe .  an esa spokesman said : " scientists believe that siloe patera and a number of similar features in the arabia terra area of mars are calderas , the collapsed centres of volcanoes , but not just any volcanoes - these are thought to be martian super volcanoes .  " a number of irregularly shaped craters have been detected in the arabia terra region that could represent a family of ancient supervolcano calderas .  " siloe patera is one such example . it is characterised by two depressions with steep-sided walls , collapse features and low topographic relief . "  the arabia terra area has plains of fine-grained , layered sulphate- and clay-bearing materials , which could well be lave from old eruptions , some experts say .