China's new $16bn gold fund at centre of new 'Silk Road'
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/personalfinance/investing/gold/11630690/Chinas-new-16bn-gold-fund-at-centre-of-new-Silk-Road.html

gold prices could be boosted by china 's plan to establish a $16bn ( ? 10bn ) fund to stockpile the precious metal as part of a scheme known as the ' silk road ' initiative aimed at boosting trade .  state endorsed media in china has reported that the new fund shandong gold group and shaanxi gold group will each take stakes of 35pc and 25pc respectively in the new fund alongside other investors .  the new entity , which may include an exchange traded fund for gold and investments in miners of the precious metal , aims to raise the $16bn in three tranches , according to the report .  news of the fund could restore some impetus to the gold market , which has been struggling to offset the growing strength of the us dollar , which usually weighs on prices . gold fell below the psychologically important $1,200 per ounce level at the start of the week as traders bet on the timing of an expected rate rise by the us federal reserve this summer .  china is the playing a significant role in determining the overall direction of the gold market . according to the world gold council 's latest market analysis , jewellery demand in china fell by 10pc year-on-year in the first quarter as slowing economic growth hit consumer sentiment in the world 's second-largest economy .  " a lack of consensus over the likely future direction of gold prices further hindered demand , " said the report .  however , news that china may be poised to establish a major new investment vehicle focused on gold could provide a significant boost to the market , which has seesawed amid uncertainty over the timing of the fed 's expected rate rise . golf prices tend to suffer when the dollar climbs as investors shift out of the precious metal , which also seen as one of the best hedges against economy volatility .  gold neared its peak above $1,900 during the euro crisis , us debt downgrade and uk riots of august 2011when uncertainty over the direction of the global economy was at it peak following the global financial crisis .  commerzbank bank timing of the fed 's decision on rates has passed . the broker expects the precious metal to be trading at around $1,250 per ounce by the end of the year .  according to the report in shanghai securities news , the new fund will also form part of an audacious plan by beijing to create a new economic bloc across asia and europe , known as the ' silk road ' initiative . china 's president xi jinping wants the initiative , also known as ' one belt , one road ' plan to help double the country ' economy over the next decade .  mr xi has said that the creation of the new " silk road " would result in around $2.5 trillion of additional trade for all those involved over the next 10 years . however , the plan - which includes investment in transport and energy infrastructure - comes amid growing concern over china 's slowing economic growth and decline appetite for commodities and gold .