Inside the new issue of Uncut.
http://www.uncut.co.uk/uncut-editors-diary/inside-the-new-issue-of-uncut-68630

inside the new issue of uncut ...  is history speeding up , or am i just getting older ? i doubt i 'm the first man of a certain age to have a minor existential crisis triggered by an album reissues programme . it 's been caused these past few weeks , though , by reviewing a couple of albums for the new issue of uncut ( officially out today in the uk ) that i wrote about first time round -- and not , it seems , that long ago .  one is the debut by the vancouver collective , black mountain , whose " druganaut " was a key part of the first cd of new psychedelia i compiled for uncut , " comets , ghosts and sunburned hands " . " black mountain " , amazingly , came out in 2005 , hence the tenth anniversary deluxe reissue .  the second is our archive album of the month , michael head 's " magical world of the strands " . , a kind of opiate folk record that relocates the spirits head 's story is a spectacularly messy one , and various true believers have been trying to make him famous -- with his first band , the pale fountains , then repeatedly with shack -- for three decades now , without much in the way of success . " the fate of michael head , elusive genius with few contemporary equals , remains uncertain , " i wrote in nme 18 years ago , when the magical world first came out . " as this album once again so conclusively proves , he deserves the world . "  with the likes of mick head -- and , indeed , uncut 's cover stars this month , the rolling stones -- it 's tempting , as storytellers , to repeat the myths and circumnavigate the actual music , not least because music is often substantially harder to write about . i tried this time , though , to contextualise head as part of a deep and transporting musical tradition , rather than as a chemically-adjusted outrider of britpop . and in a similar spirit mick jagger , not always the keenest revealing interview about the making of one of his greatest albums , " sticky fingers " .  elsewhere in the issue we have the terrific jim o'rourke interview that i wrote about last week ; an exclusive inside story on the 13th floor elevators reunion ; a piece about the radical visions of hipgnosis , featuring insights from robert plant and nick mason ; plus new interviews with sturgill simpson , james taylor , the blockheads , jah wobble and one ringo starr . in reviews , you 'll find sun kil moon , richard thompson , jamie xx , leon bridges , kacey musgraves , rickie lee jones , robin gibb and little richard . oh , and there 's an interview with a lost ' 70s la act called smokey ( the singer almost replaced iggy in the stooges ) that i ca n't recommend strongly enough .  smokey 's singles were mostly so obscure , for various amusing reasons , that they 've rarely been heard since they were made . " sticky fingers " , though , has been played a few times in the notable exception ...  " i have never listened to it , probably since it was recorded , since the playback sessions ... i never listen to them again , " says mick jagger . forty-four years : what happened there ? back in the blink of an eye ...