Muslim gang slashes tyres of immigration-raid van in Shadwell, East ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3174610/Welcome-East-London-gang-slashes-tyres-immigration-raid-van-officers-showered-eggs-high-rise.html

A gang of youths launched an astonishing attack on vans being used for an immigration raid -- in the week David Cameron called upon the community to ' support the British way of life ' .  In the ' disturbing ' incident in East London last week , three vans marked ' Immigration Enforcement ' and an unmarked silver car were badly vandalised .  More than a dozen officials arrived in Shadwell on Wednesday to round up three suspected illegal Bangladeshi immigrants from a shop . They returned to their Home Office vehicles in the next street to find the vans ' tyres had been sliced open and the paintwork scratched . The officers were then pelted with eggs before police were called .  Two days earlier , the Prime Minister made a landmark speech appealing for support from the community in the effort to combat extremism .  Vandalised : The post giving details and showing a photo of the vans with slashed tyres  One witness said : ' I saw about five or six youths come out of nowhere and run their hands and they slashed the tyres and scratched the bodywork .  ' It all happened very quickly , then they ran off .  ' I think they were local hoodies just doing a prank , but it 's not funny . It 's the sort of thing that will cause this area problems now . '  RELATED ARTICLES  Share this article  Residents also claim the vans had to be towed away after a local garage refused to help , although the garage denies this .  The attack was condemned by community leaders in Shadwell last night , but social media posts appeared to reveal a groundswell of support for the gang .  On Facebook , Nur Choudhury said : ' Immigration Enforcement officers in Shadwell . Their tyres got slashed , valves taken and cars scratched . The local garage refused to sell them tyres or help them . To top it all off they got egged from the local tower block and a few landed direct on their heads . Welcome to Shadwell : ) '  The immigration officers ' vehicles , Shadwell . Pictured : Chapman Street , Shadwell  Beneath a link to a video of the damaged vehicles on Facebook , Jenny Hussain added : ' Lol . I heard about it . They were asking people for wheels . Everyone said no to them . '  When The Mail on Sunday visited the scene on Friday , one shopkeeper said : ' The police deserve it . They are always down here hassling us . '  A worker at Bigland Tyres -- which is opposite where the attack took place -- last night denied claims they declined to help . He said : ' We tried to help them but we did n't have any tyres big enough to fit their vans . We offered to give them air , but there was no point because the tyres had big holes in them . '  A Scotland Yard spokesman said no arrests had been made but ' inquiries are ongoing ' .  A Home Office spokesman said : ' We will not tolerate abuse or criminal damage . Offences will be reported to the said the youths responsible for damaging the Home Office vehicles were Muslims . Muslim readers have asked to point out that the youths ' religion was unclear and , in any case , irrelevant to the story . We apologise for any offence caused .