Penny Woolcock: 'March towards the sound of gunfire. If you run ...
http://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2015/jul/25/penny-woolcock-interview-filmmaker-radical-politics

i have experienced life on the breadline . i was a single parent and although i always worked , i needed income support . that experience made it possible for me to go into areas that are very impoverished or deprived for my work , and to know that people in these places can have very rich and interesting lives . i 've always found a huge amount of humour and resourcefulness .  in a city like london we walk the same pavements as other people , but our experiences are so different . the same piece of pavement could be where a homeless person sleeps , where a young person goes to party or a frontline for a young guy in a postcode war . for my latest work an audio art installation at the roundhouse i wanted to find a way in which , instead of walking past people , you could hear their stories . the people that you might be afraid of , repulsed by , intrigued by -- they would speak to you .  i recorded a lot of interviews interviews is with a sex worker . everybody talks about sex workers as victims . these women rarely get to speak for themselves . it 's the same with marginalised young men who are involved in stabbings and so on . hearing these people articulate their own experience is a valuable thing .  where i live i do n't know any of my neighbours . but if i go into what we call a " hood " , i ca n't walk down the street without stopping to say hello to lots of people . the rich are impoverished by not understanding what the less well-off have and what they can offer us . those migrants who are drowning in the sea , they 're probably full of ideas and enthusiasm , things we could learn and benefit from .  we are living in an incredible moment in which there 's an appetite for thinking differently about a system that clearly does n't work . people such as russell brand and charlotte church are making radical politics interesting to young people , and i 've never experienced that in grew up in a deeply conservative british expat community in argentina . as a girl growing up in the 1950s -- it 's almost unbelievable now -- you were brought up to get married and maybe have a short stint working as a secretary or a teacher beforehand . but i was just desperate ; i could n't breathe . when i was about 16 i joined a radical theatre group and my world turned upside down .  my comfort zone is always outside my comfort zone . i do n't feel comfortable really knowing what i 'm doing , so i like to leap into the unknown .  the widening inequality in rich countries like ours , where some people do n't have enough to eat and others have vast surpluses , will lead to disaster and uprisings . we 're all connected , and if we live in a society in which the poorest people are stabbing each other and the richest people are committing suicides in mansions , we 're all diminished by that . but there 's always a possibility for change . hopelessness is you should march towards the sound of gunfire . on the other side of that it 's always very interesting , whereas if you run away you do n't learn anything .  a friend of mine once told me : " if you do what they want you to do , at best it will be all right and at worst it will be all right . if you do what you want to do , at best it will be fantastic , at worst it will be a disaster . " who wants to be just all right ?  music sort of invades you . it avoids your rational brain so that you can be overwhelmed and transported into another place and another time . i love shostakovich and sibelius . and i love grime , which is authentically british and gives a voice to people who do n't have one .  as a parent i tried to encourage and nurture what my child wanted to be rather than what i wanted him to be . i 've always respected that my son is in some fundamental 4-23 august during bloomberg summer at the roundhouse ( roundhouse.co.uk )