Sabre-toothed tigers and giant hyenas 'helped protect prehistoric ...
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/sabre-toothed-tigers-giant-hyenas-6710408

get daily news by email  sabre-toothed tigers and giant hyenas helped protect the prehistoric environment by controlling the numbers of plant eaters , a new study claims .  savage predators , twice the size of the present day equivalents , helped maintain the ecosystem by keeping the plant eating beasts , such as enormous ground sloths and hippos , in check .  the curved and serrated dagger-like canines of a sabre-toothed cat , or smilodon , were seven inches long and one bite to the neck could instantly sever crucial arteries of a mammoth or mastodon .  bbc  savage : sabre-tooth cats had huge teeth that could kill with one bite  when these largest modern-day herbivores are confined to too small an area they devastate the vegetation .  so scientists were intrigued as to how the environment survived 15,000 years ago when the mammoths , mastodons and giant ground sloths were even larger , more numerous and more widely distributed .  they say the enormous predators called ' hypercarnivores ' - about twice as large as the wolves , able to take down a five year-old juvenile mastodon weighing over a ton .  hunting in packs cave hyenas could possibly bring down a nine year-old weighing two tons .  this ancient breed of hyena was twice the size of the famous laughing hyenas of the african savannah growing up to 285lb ( 130kg ) and hunted in 30 strong packs .  getty  ancient : a smilodon in the snow with a mammoth in the background during the pliocene-pleistocene era  its massive molars could crush bone and helped it hang onto and incapacitate mastodons and colombian mammoths .  mastodons are members of an extinct group of animals known as mammuthus which were similar to elephants but covered in thick hair and had long curved tusks .  while woolly mammoths were more closely related to elephants and lived across northern europe , siberia and part of north america , mastodons were only found in north america , where they lived on a diet of leaves and branches .  they had long and straighter tusks compared to mammoths and were shorter but more heavily muscled academy of scientists were based on a series of mathematical models for the sizes of predators and prey in the late pleistocene - about one million to 11,000 years ago .  getty  feral : unlike many creatures in this list , hyenas survive to the present day  professor louise roth , an evolutionary biologist at duke university , north carolina , said : " from the present day it seems that big animals like elephants are immune to predation .  " in fact pleistocene ecosystems were a lot more complex and predators could have had a larger impact . "  she said : " so much of our science is based on the last 50 or 100 years . " but populations of big cats and wolves would have been much larger before humans arrived on the scene .  the study estimated size ranges for pleistocene predators based on the fossil record - including teeth - because researchers can make a reasonable estimate of an animal 's size based on just the first molar .  prof roth developed formulas for the relationship of shoulder elephants to estimate how large some of the plant eaters found in fossil evidence would have been .  getty  giant : woolly mammoths were related to elephants  but modern adult elephants with the same shoulder height may vary by as much as two times in body mass , roth said .  add to that the " age structure , " the mix of animals of different sizes in a given herd , and her calculations of mammoth sizes cover " a whopping range . "  researchers developed a range for what some of these shaggy grass-eaters would weigh and calculated if these big predators might be able to capture an herbivore .  because there is no way to infer from the scant fossil evidence whether predators hunted in packs , the researchers relied on estimated prey sizes and modelled the capacity of single predators and predators in groups to take them down .  they conclude juvenile mastodons and mammoths would indeed have been susceptible - especially if the carnivores were socially organised .