10 of the best hidden bars and restaurants in New York
http://www.theguardian.com/travel/2015/nov/16/secret-new-york-best-hidden-bars-restaurants

BARS  Lantern 's Keep , Midtown West  Opened in the early 1900s , both the Algonquin and the Iroquois hotels exude the glamour of times past . Inside , the Algonquin has its famed Round Table restaurant , where Dorothy Parker gathered with editors of Vanity Fair and The New Yorker . But the Iroquois has a hidden little jewel box of a cocktail bar called Lantern 's Keep . There 's no sign for it , but in-the-know imbibers are aware that if the lantern affixed to the Iroquois 's facade is lit , they can go inside and have a drink . Lantern 's Keep opened in 2011 , but you would n't know it from the decor , which looks more like a Parisian beaux-arts salon than a New York bar . Chic black panelling contrasts with marble tables and Louis XIV chairs upholstered in powder blue velvet . Head bartender John Ploeser and his team designed the list of 40 cocktails , from the refreshing Regal Business ( gin , grapefruit , honey , lime ) to the boozy Double Barrel and orange bitters ) . Ploeser has a polite , midwestern air that makes him instantly likeable and easy to talk to and he loves the social aspect of bartending. *49 West 44th Street , +1 212 435 4287 , **27;1739;TOOLONG . Open Mon-Fri 5pm-midnight ; Sat 6pm-1am  Blind Barber , Lower East Side  Alphabet City was the first location for Blind Barber , which opened in 2010 and has since expanded to Williamsburg and Los Angeles . The entrance is a working two-seat barbershop . Designed to feel like a retro dentist office , even the barber 's tools are on rolling dental trays . The back room bar is hidden behind a rolling door , which opens up to a large lounge . And the name ? It 's a reference to the titles given to speakeasies during prohibition such as Blind Tiger and Blind Pig , a message to policemen to turn a blind eye to the activities going on behind the scenes . The cocktail menu has a core selection of classics , including Strawberry Fields with vodka , lemon juice , honey , strawberries , jalapeno-infused Combier , lemon juice , cucumber , and ginger . The seasonal cocktails change in fall and spring , and pizza is provided until 10pm by Gnocco next door .  Back to the barbershop : the small room takes advantage of the original exposed brick of the building and the decor features distressed metal boards , vintage Koker barbershop chairs , and wooden auditorium seats . The underlying concept is a nod to the barbershops of yore where a community would come together . To that end , Blind Barber offers a drink with your shave -- anything from spirits to beer . Just no cocktails until the bar opens at 6pm. * 339 East 10th Street , +1 212 228 2123 , blindbarber.com . Backroom open Mon-Sat 6pm-4am , Barbershop noon-9pm , Sun noon-6pm  Nublu , East Village  During the day , the outside of Nublu looks like a shuttered storefront , with metal grates perpetually down except for where the slats have broken off . Sometime between 2013 and 2014 , street art appeared which added a splash of colour . At night , light marking the entrance . Inside , however , activity is truly buzzing , as Nublu has become a stronghold for musical improvisation across genres . Nublu had humble beginnings in 2002 as a simple clubhouse where friends of owner Ilhan Ersahin would come and play music . Ersahin , himself a musician , describes its early days as more of a rehearsal space . He acquired the wine and beer licence just so they could drink during and between jams , as the space was always open to the public . It 's a haven for musicians getting their careers started , as well as for famous ones such as Moby , Norah Jones and David Byrne , who come to perform secret shows or take in the latest sounds . At the bar , expect a wide range of sake , along with beers and wine . *62 Avenue C , +1 347 529 5923 , nublu.net . Weekdays : first band 9pm , late band at 11pm and 1am ; weekends first band at 9pm , late band at midnight and 2am  No Name Bar , Greenpoint of 597 Manhattan Avenue in Greenpoint not only lacks a name , it does n't even have a phone . " It might sound like a cliche , but I wanted to bring back a sense of discovery , " says owner Jessica Lee Wertz . The only entrance marker is the antique bronze door knocker shaped like a Chinese dragon . Push the door open and you 'll be in a long , narrow bar that feels like the Orient Express . Opposite the bar , a series of narrow benches with tiny tables are reminiscent of train cars . The space is outfitted in reclaimed wood with design elements inspired by China , Japan , and Morocco . When Wertz first opened the bar in 2010 , she recognised everyone who came to drink there . Now , there are always new faces . It 's the kind of place where you can order an old fashioned and your friend can have a Budweiser , and there 's no judgment either way . Many chefs and servers from the surrounding restaurants come in for a nightcap , since No open until 4am every night. *597 Manhattan Avenue , Brooklyn , on Facebook . Open Sun-Thurs 3pm-4am , Fri-Sat noon-4am  William Barnacle Tavern at 80 St Marks , East Village  Though the William Barnacle Tavern itself is no longer hidden , the bar is one of the few authentic speakeasies left over from prohibition , and the building itself still holds a rich history of secrets -- including intact mafia escape tunnels and safes . The entrance to the bar was originally through a butcher shop next door , concealed from the street . Behind the bar was a dance hall , which later became a jazz club and is now the theatre . The William Barnacle Tavern specialises in absinthe -- 28 variations of it -- and single malt whiskies . The bar owner , Lorcan Otway , used to be a shipbuilder , so the maritime theme of the bar is a nod to his past , creating a dive-y , non self-conscious pub . Unlike many of the trendier prohibition-style bars in New York City , the tavern is not only authentic , but every item Lorcan and his family . Lorcan himself is often behind the bar , too , making 1920s-inspired cocktails or serving absinthe. *80 St Marks Place , +1 212 388 0388 , on Facebook . Open Mon-Fri 6pm-2am , Sunday 1pm-2am  RESTAURANTS  La Esquina , Soho  The name of this place ( " the corner " ) would have you think it 's just your average tiny taqueria . From the outside , it looks casual , like an old Mexican diner , with corrugated tin siding and a neon sign . You could come here and just get tacos to go -- but then you may get curious about where the people disappearing through the door inside the narrow taqueria are going . If you have a reservation or are lucky enough to get in without one , the host will open the door and you 'll walk downstairs , through the kitchen and into the main brasserie . Upstairs , everything is bright , but here it 's dimly lit . Past a row of iron bars , the dining room feels a bit like a dungeon room are dripping in wax . A soundtrack of pop music sets a party mood . La Esquina is known for its margaritas and they 're the perfect complement to the Mexican street food . There 's the classic elotes callejeros ( grilled corn on the cob smothered in mayonnaise , cotija cheese , and lime juice ) , ceviche , and queso fundido ( melted cheese with pumpkin seeds and chile de arbol ) that arrives in a cast-iron pan with plantain chips for dipping . And there are tacos ( around $5 a taco ) in all varieties : grilled steak , chicken , fish of the day , cheese , veal tongue , carnitas , and slow-roasted pulled pork. *114 Kenmare Street , +1 646 613 7100 , esquinanyc.com . Open daily 6pm-2am  Sakagura , Midtown East  Open for almost 20 years , Sakagura is found in the basement of a nondescript Midtown office building . Cross the threshold of the restaurant , however , and you 'll feel as if you 've entered a Japanese village . The decor is such that diners have the look like houses , replete with windows , shutters and dormer roofs . Though the architecture is n't an exercise of purist Japanese form , the raised level of the sake bar area , a mini Shinto shrine , and rice paper dividers give it a homey feel . It 's one of the finest places for Japanese food in the city -- and at affordable prices . As an appetiser , try the Washu beef self-cooked on hot stones , a sea urchin soup with soft boiled egg and salmon roe , the onsen tamago ( a slow-cooked poached egg in cold soup ) , the buta no kakuni ( a special stewed diced-pork dish ) , or the chawanmushi egg custard topped with ponzu soup . For mains , there is miso stewed beef tongue with shitake mushrooms , spinach , taro potato and daikon radish. *211 East 43rd Street , +1 212 953 7253 , sakagura.com . Open for lunch Mon-Fri 11.30am-2.20pm ; dinner from 6pm every day  Glasserie , Greenpoint , Brooklyn  Outside , only a neon green G marks the entrance to this spot back much further than the entrance would have you believe , too . When it was a glass factory , from the 1870s to the 1930s , the workers would cart their wares through the courtyard to the back exit , which opens onto Newtown Creek . Now , the factory 's enormous kiln door hangs in the courtyard and an original ceramic basin holds plants . As owner-developer Sarah Conklin prepared to open she spent months researching the building and found antique etchings of the factory 's fixtures -- now hanging by the entrance -- through the Corning Museum of Glass upstate . Also , poised around the room are copper pots from Lebanon and Saudi Arabia -- handed down by Conklin 's mother . To say that it serves purely Lebanese or Middle Eastern food would be to oversimplify . The emphasis is on seasonal ingredients and honouring the integrity of the flavours . Syrian cheese brushed with Za'atar might be served with heirloom tomatoes in the summer and pickled beets in the winter . The wine list emphasises obscure wines from the Mediterranean , Slovenia , and Croatia. , glasserienyc.com . Open Mon-Fri 5.30pm-11.30pm ; Sat-Sun 10am-11pm  Mexico 2000 , Williamsburg , Brooklyn  Mexico 2000 is a hole-in-the-wall bodega in south Williamsburg under the elevated J-M-Z train tracks that gave Jay-Z his name -- and got its own name because it opened in 2000 . It made its mark on the NYC culinary map in 2012 when Alex Stupak of Empell ? n made a dish inspired by the chilaquiles from the bodega . But fans of Mexico 2000 had been going there for years , picking up basics such as plantain chips , sweet breads , lotto tickets , toilet paper , and canned foods from rickety shelves , while grabbing cheap , authentic Mexican food . Besides the famous chilaquiles , there are tacos , burritos , chimichangas , tortas , huaraches , sopes , enchiladas , tostadas , and more , along with soups and stews . There are actually two locations of Mexico 2000 on the same block now . The success of the tiny bodega led to an expansion two doors down into a formal restaurant , but the taqueria in the Brooklyn , +1 718 782 3797 , no website . Open daily 8.30am-10.30pm  Ganesh Temple Canteen , Queens-Flushing  Across from a row of family houses in Flushing is a large building with an entrance so intricately carved it looks like it 's straight from a temple in India . The Ganesh Temple , as it 's colloquially known , opened in 1970 ( with the current building dating from 1977 ) . Its official name is the Hindu Temple Society of North America , because when founded in 1970 it was the first and only traditional Hindu temple in the country . Downstairs is a canteen serving dosas , masalas , and mango lassi so good it warranted a visit from Anthony Bourdain . There are 17 variations of dosas , and an additional four varieties available only on weekends . The all-vegetarian canteen is open seven days a week from morning until night with Ganesha in gold overseeing the basement dining space . Afterwards , grab desserts at the sweet shop in the Swaminarayan Hindu temple just down the street. *45-47 Bowne Street , +1 718 460 8484 Bars &amp; Restaurants , by Michelle Young and Laura Itzkowitz , is out now , published by Jonglez Publishing , for ? 12.99 . To order a copy for ? 10.39 , including UK p&amp;p , visit bookshop.theguardian.com or call on 0330 333 6846