Barclays, HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland 'at risk of further penalties'
http://www.theguardian.com/business/2015/nov/17/barclays-hsbc-royal-bank-of-scotland-moodys-risk-further-penalties

major banks have now set aside $219bn ( ? 144bn ) to pay fines and legal costs since the financial crisis .  ratings agency moody 's , which calculated the vast provisions , ranked barclays , hsbc and royal bank of scotland at high risk from on-going investigations .  the agency also sounded an alert over the risk of criminal proceedings against banks which could threaten their future profitability .  despite the huge sums set aside by 15 major investment banks between 2008 and 2014 , moody 's warned that scrutiny of the activities of bankers was not receding . " regulatory investigations into the business practices and potential criminal activities of financial institutions have been proceeding rapidly both in the us and abroad , " said moody 's .  " these probes of legacy conduct issues show no sign of abating and present significant risk for bondholders of large diversified global banks with significant capital markets business . "  two us banks -- bank of america and jp morgan -- account for half of all the $219bn of provisions with $70bn settlements relating to the way they sold mortgages and mortgage bonds in early part of the banking crisis .  one of the reasons that rbs is ranked as high risk for further penalties is a looming punishment for the sale of these mortgage bonds in the run-up to the crisis . the 74%-taxpayer owned bank has set aside $2.5bn in preparation , although this is not expected to be enough . the bank had hoped for this penalty to be agreed this year .  hsbc is regarded as high risk because of its breaches of money laundering rules in the us , and barclays because of allegations about the way it raised money during the 2008 crisis from investors in the middle east .  " most us and european global investment banks have set aside large provisions for future litigation costs , " said moody 's . " however , the complexity , uncertainty and the escalating nature of these costs present tail risk that is difficult to quantify in any stress test . "  the bank of england has also warned about the impact of fines , mark carney , said about $150bn worth of fines have been imposed on major banks since 2008 , depriving the real economy of $3tn of credit and potentially holding back the global economy .