How to get free of the mortgage trap
http://www.independent.co.uk/money/mortgages/how-to-get-free-of-the-mortgage-trap-a6761241.html

how to get free of the mortgage trap  for many people who feel they have outgrown their home , the mortgage or rent is keeping them captive getty images  the latest property market data would suggest it is still a great time to be a homeowner . according to the nationwide building society , average prices rose by 0.1 per cent in november , while the average monthly uk rent was up by 3.5 per cent to ? 749 a month ,  that comes at time when the average property in the uk costs nearly ? 300,000 , according to the property portal rightmove .  for many would-be buyers looking to get a mortgage , and homeowners looking to remortgage , the reality is less than rosy . the financial ombudsman this week highlighted the plight of " mortgage prisoners " -- older people stuck with interest-only loan that they are unable to pay off .  it has also received complaints in the past year from mortgage customers considered to be most at risk of failing to keep up their mortgage repayments their lender 's highest rate .  but it is not just older or riskier borrowers who have been trapped ; even those trying to save for their future are finding themselves unable to remortgage or even move home .  david baker of the adviser lift-financial said a mix of stricter mortgage criteria , lack of affordable housing and low interest rates had made it harder to get a good deal .  " the mortgage market review , which came in last april , has meant outgoings like school fees and credit cards are scrutinised more than ever , " he explained . " some lenders even look at pension contributions ; some clients make huge contributions but from a mortgage point of view that 's considered an expense and is deducted when a mortgage affordability calculation is made . "  an increasing number of people are also finding it hard to remortgage after a relationship breakdown . quite often the stricter affordability criteria mean they can not buy their partner out .  lisa agasse , 49 , is a freelance personal assistant and founder of a  " i got caught out by the endowment scandal , i took out a 25-year mortgage in 1990 and i had to extend it in 2013 because the endowment paid out less than i put in . "  lisa owes around ? 66,000 and her flat is worth ? 300,000 .  " it sounds like i have options but i am self-employed -- and although i have a lot of equity in my flat , it does need modernising . i 've been told that my chances of getting a mortgage if i want to move are limited because lenders are much stricter now . also , if i were to move locally a small two-bed house would cost about ? 400,000 to ? 500,000 , which i ca n't afford right now . "  the rental prisoner  sarah and her husband peter both earn more than the national average salary , but an increase in their monthly rent is due to take effect next month , leaving them unable to keep saving for a deposit .  " childcare bills are ? 1,000 a month left to save . we need to move because the state of the rental property is questionable , with damp and a garden falling apart .  " last month the rent went up from just under ? 800 a month to ? 1,100 . this means we can now only save ? 100 a month .  " we would love to move to a cheaper place so we could keep on saving , but in five years the average rent has risen from ? 500 to ? 1,000 , so we would be paying more for a smaller place . we are stuck -- forced to pay more rent to a landlord who ca n't even be bothered to maintain the property . "  the relationship prisoner  sarah , a solicitor , is desperate to move up the ladder . she lives in a one-bed flat in kent with her four-year-old daughter . she split with her partner but he still owns half the property .  " a lot of my friends moved out from london to buy bigger homes and to take advantage of good to buy my partner out . it 's heartbreaking as i have limited contact with him for personal reasons .  " when we tried to buy a larger flat a few years ago when i was pregnant , we were beaten to two-bedroom houses by buy-to-let investors . now , where we live , all the homes are being bought up to rent out . "  how to get free of the trap  if you ca n't remortgage , it 's worth paying off your home loan until you hit a milestone " equity " level . for example , if a borrower can get their " loan to value " down to 70 per cent , they could qualify for a lower-cost ? mortgage . banks borrow tranches of money at set levels -- 70 per cent , 75 per cent and so on -- so they can pass on the discount to borrowers .  many people are taking a mortgage until they are 70 to 75 because they are still working . those wanting to downsize should consider lowering the selling price of their home your lender in the loop . " if you are splitting up with a partner , your lender can help explain what your options are . "