San Bernardino: 'pledge of allegiance' to Isis is no proof of group's ...
http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/dec/04/san-bernardino-suspect-pledge-allegiance-to-isis

the news that us investigators are evaluating evidence that tashfeen malik may have either " pledged allegiance to the islamic state " or expressed support for the group before launching the attacks which killed 14 and wounded 21 , in san bernardino , california , on wednesday prompts many questions .  if isis were to be directly responsible , or even played a significant indirect inspirational role , the killings would be a major escalation of terrorist threat and activity on us soil . but we are far from establishing such a link -- and the motives of the attackers remain extremely unclear .  at the moment , there 's no evidence isis directed the couple to launch the attacks , officials have told media , remarking that " we believe they were more self-radicalized and inspired by the group than actually told to do the shooting " .  so far it appears that in the days leading up to the shooting , the couple took steps to delete their electronic information . those efforts -- along with stockpiled ammunition and bombs -- have  cnn quoted one us official as saying malik had pledged allegiance to self-appointed isis caliph abu bakr al-baghdadi in a facebook post on the day of the san bernardino attack , under an account that used a different name .  but at the moment we do n't know if the post was simply an expression of approval or praise for the islamic state 's leader or activities , or a full pledge of allegiance , a bayat .  the bayat is an oath taken by an individual to obey the authority of another person , not a group and the term is mostly used when the leader of a faction pledges allegiance to the leader of a bigger organisation . one example earlier this year was when abou bakr shekau , the leader of nigeria 's boko haram militant group declared his loyalty to baghdadi .  such pledges are sometimes solicited -- isis has been making significant efforts to win over factions -- and sometimes unsolicited : for the past 18 months , isis has been making calls for individuals in the west to strike locally and series of so-called " lone wolf " attackers in the west have claimed to be linked to isis ; but while some of those claims have been endorsed by the organisation , others have gone ignored .  one attack that isis claimed as its own -- even if it appears the group had no role whatsoever in its planning and execution -- was the siege in january at a kosher supermarket in paris . amedy coulibaly , a convicted bank robber who coordinated his attacks with those launched on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo by two other militants , claimed in a video recorded shortly before the operation that he had pledged allegiance to baghdadi , and thus to the islamic state , in the summer of 2014 .  he was shot dead by police in the attack but his wife , hayat boumedienne , surfaced weeks later in syria , featured in the isis magazine dabiq .  the attacks in paris earlier this month which left 130 dead appear to have been much more closely controlled by the organisation , though again , details are unclear . the war in syria .  we know that isis likes to create ambiguity , anxiety and uncertainty . this serves a greater aim of terrorising its enemies through provocation of irrational fear -- which is especially prevalent when there is a sense that the threat is ubiquitous . but the lack of clarity serves a tactical purpose too : the group can claim an attack if it feels such a gesture would be useful ; or ignore -- or even deny it -- if it chooses to .  what investigators will also be aware of is that few " lone wolves " are indeed entirely solitary . one recent study examined the interactions of 120 supposed " lone wolf " terrorists from all ideological and faith backgrounds , and found that , even though they launched their attacks alone , in a large majority of the cases others were aware of the individual 's commitment to a specific extremist ideology .  beyond this , however , is the question of motivation . even a pledge of allegiance to isis does not rule out a mix of other reasons illness -- or any of the myriad of factors which drive the perpetrators of mass shootings in the us.