Climate change is threatening the seabirds of St Kilda
http://www.theguardian.com/environment/2015/dec/04/climate-change-threatening-puffins-kittiwakes-seabirds-st-kilda-scotland

the survival of seabirds including puffins and kittiwakes on st kilda -- the island archipelago home to one of the world 's most important seabird populations -- is being threatened by climate change , striking new evidence shows .  naturalists have discovered that the kittiwake , a small migratory gull with ink-black wing tips , is on the brink of disappearing from st kilda . the remote cluster of scottish islands in the eastern atlantic is the uk 's only place with two unesco world heritage site listings -- for its culture and natural history -- and one of only 24 sites with a dual listing worldwide .  the kittiwake did not breed in st kilda this season , with just one chick born there this year after a 99% decrease in occupied nests since the 1990s . its adult population has since halved . the number of fulmar chicks has plunged by 33% since 2005 , while st kilda 's puffin population is in persistent decline .  " this data from st kilda is really extremely worrying , " said dr paul walton royal society for the protection of birds . " we are losing whole colonies of these birds now and it 's a very serious issue . frankly , it breaks my heart , it really does . "  with crucial un climate talks approaching their halfway point in paris , the data underscored the case for urgent action on climate change , he said . capping the growth in global temperatures at 2c -- the target for policymakers -- could be enough to allow the marine environment to adapt over time , walton added .  " there 's a very strong climate change link here that needs to go straight to paris : what they decide there is going to determine the future of our seabirds , " he said . " we are clear on what the science is saying , that really big ecology effects of climate change are unfolding in the marine environment around scotland right now . it 's not coming , it 's here now . "  st kilda -- now regarded as one of the world 's most significant bird sanctuaries -- songs and poetry heavily featured the seabirds they subsisted on before moving off the archipelago in 1930 .  a fulmar chick inside a prehistoric building in glen bay . photograph : murdo macleod for the guardian  it lies about 41 miles ( 66km ) west of the hebrides . when bird populations are at their highest , about 1 million birds perch on the island 's high , precipitous cliffs , sea stacs and rocky crags , hosting the world 's largest gannet colony and nearly a third of the charismatic atlantic puffins that live around the uk and ireland .  in 1987 , the national trust for scotland ( nts ) counted 7,829 kittiwakes on the islands . now that number stands at 3,886 . when routine monitoring began 21 years ago , there were 513 occupied kittiwake nests there , with 56 chicks born . this year , researchers found just four nests , a 99.2% decrease , and a single chick .  the number of fulmar nests has declined by 37% since 2002 , with productivity rates well below normal levels , averaging 0.28 puffin numbers are also struggling . at 0.59 chicks per burrow , the nts says puffin breeding is " still below the long-term average and , set against the longtime scale of the decline , suggests conditions are becoming less suitable for breeding " .  susan bain , who manages the island for the nts , has ruled out windfarms and overfishing as other causes for the birds ' decline . studies of dead kittiwakes found they had not been eating their normal diet , suggesting fish had moved to follow the cooler waters .  lighter and more buoyant than their neighbouring gannets , the birds struggled to dive to the necessary depths . as a result , dead chicks were found having digested non-nutritious pipefish .  " we 're seeing significant declines in the number of species , which suggests that there 's something changing in the seas , " bain said . " we know the sea temperature is getting warmer , so the fish are moving or are at greater depths . "  bain says the headline figures are worrying , given the island for its unesco status , yet . " at the moment , no , i 'm not worried , but i would n't want to be complacent about that either , " she said . " if these declines continue , then maybe . "  regular , long-term visitors had noticed the kittiwake 's absence , she added . " we were seeing a couple of hundred nests around the village bay in the past . now there are four , which is devastating . it 's very noticeable . they 're statistically extinct , although we will continue to look for them next year .  " it is normally a noisy place . you walk up to the cliffs and put your head over and it 's constant noise of fulmars , guillemots and razorbills . when they leave and go out to sea it 's silent , you really do notice . it would change the nature of the place significantly if that soundtrack was gone . "