Don't listen to those who try to own the definition of a video game
http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/dec/04/video-games-gaming-dudegamers

so new year is coming , the time when for centuries video games journalists have traditionally knelt before their console or pc of choice and begged the pixellated games fairy for just one wish . do n't tell me you 've never heard of the pixellated games fairy .  next you 'll be saying you do n't believe in santa binding-clause , by whose grace we are not prosecuted for breaking the terms in " standard agreements " we agreed to without reading .  anyway . this coming year , dear pgf , may i never hear anyone critique a game again with the following terrible words : " it 's not a game . " or : " it 's not even a game . " or : " yeah , fine , it 's sold a million copies but is it really a game ? "  this criticism is usually hurled at games that are interesting , experimental , unusual , gentle , thoughtful , quiet or quirky ; i 've heard it levelled at the exploration game proteus as well as as well as the meta-weirdness of the stanley parable . it comes up in a few different contexts :  gamer dudebros whose objection seems to be : " but there is n't any shooting , i have no way to win or lose , it 's not hard enough , i ca n't prop up my masculinity by showing a bunch of strangers on the internet how great i am at this thing ! " to which i can say only : sure , puberty is a really hard time for everyone . you 'll get through .  people who do n't think of themselves as gamers , who want to say that the thing they like , because it 's just growing flowers or popping bubbles or carding the wool of a flock of tiny sheep , ca n't really be a game . " oh , i do n't really play games , i 'm just super into this flock of tiny sheep right now , look , i just got my first brecknock hill cheviot ! " well , if you 're playing that game , not wanting to be associated with a hobby you enjoy . just own it .  the most pernicious of all : digital-thinkfluencers , gamification marketeers , playfulness-consultants and other peddlers of old rope who want to be the gatekeepers of what is and is n't a game . they often suggest that games must have rules . or points . or levels . or win-states . they want games to seem simple and easily packaged -- for it to seem that there is a clear definition and they are the ones who know it -- because they want to sell their expertise to companies in the form of " gamification " .  this is that thing where your supermarket tries to encourage you to get to the next " level " in orange juice consumption and websites now have a " percentage complete " indicator to try to get you to give them more of your personal data . this is an understanding of " games " as a grand-scale skinner reward box , not a medium that has important things to say ; it is narrow and should completely ignore " this is not a game " arguments is this : if you want to make and play interesting things , why limit yourself ? as a game designer , i suppose i could start from a broadly accepted view of " what a game is " . i could make sure you can win or lose each level , i could put in twitch-reflex tests and keep a points score . but starting there has already cut out so many possibilities . deciding in advance what you expect to see in " a game " ( or a novel , or a museum ) means that you ca n't ever make something that truly surprises .  so i 'm going to suggest a radical answer to the question : " is this a game ? " it 's this : if the creators or players of the thing call it a game , it 's a game . i can almost hear the baying hordes rising up as i write this . " oh , but then you can call anything a game ! i could call and chocolate sandwich a game ! dogs and cats living together ... mass hysteria , gamety game game game ! " to which i 'd answer : fine . and wipe the froth from your mouth . because the important question is n't : is this a game ? the important question is : is it good ? and there 's no one-size-fits-all template for that . there 's just playing , experimenting , reflecting , saying : " did this experience move me , did it excite me , did it show me something new , did it make me want to make things like it myself ? " and those are questions much more worthwhile than : " is it really a game ? "  games are still such a young medium ; barely 40 years old . why limit ourselves now ? we 're just scratching the surface of what games are and what they can be .