Everton View from the Gwladys Street: Why Blues reminded me of ...
http://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/everton-view-gwladys-street-blues-10576001

get everton fc news by email  what did you make of the draw with palace ?  i thought at times we played like man united under ferguson . we attacked in waves and used the flanks well . in spells we looked good enough to win the league , but no team that weak on crosses wins the league .  it was clear from the pre-season games it was a weakness and it has n't been addressed . tim howard gets a bit pinned to his line on corners and no one really dominates the area for us .  overall it was an exciting game that was great to watch and in lukaku we have a forward of the highest calibre that could be as unplayable as suarez was for liverpool if he keeps up his progression .  i am a big fan of mirallas . he has a real will to win and a lot of ability . i think his time may come towards the end of the season , the balance up front at the minute is working well an excellent option to change tack in a game as is naismith .  mirallas ' time will come  i would keep him and try to get him on for kone a bit more as kone flags in the second half .  should leighton baines go straight back into the starting xi now ?  yes , galloway has proved he will make it as a premier league defender , but it is clear to me that he is a centre back . i think it is easy to forget the attacking impetus baines offers .  baines deserves to come straight back in  he put one ball into lukaku on monday from the left back position that nearly created a goal . baines has also been loyal to the club and deserves his place when fully fit . galloway 's time will come .  with wolfsburg knocking united out of the cl - do the blues deserve more credit for doing the double over the germans last season ?  i was at the game at goodison and it could have been 4-4 . we had you think we could have a special team if we hang on to the players .  when teams try to play expansively against us we have a formidable counter attack . teams really got on to it after performances like wolfsburg last term , but this season they seem to be letting us do it again .  everton 's counter attack is lethal  i think we are a bigger club than just getting credit for beating a good team , so it does not bother me too much that it seems to have been forgotten .  what 's your take on everton 's set piece woes ?  attacking corners are a real mystery to me . mori looks good in the air , stones ' header against man utd was brilliant . kone and lukaku are both good in the air . the balls going in are from barkley or deulofeu usually , sometimes barry , and they all have good delivery .  ross barkley and john stones ( photo by mike hewitt/getty images )  i just do n't think we put much value a bit nastier in the box .  defensive corners i would put down to howard some of the time as he is not commanding but i think the manager just does not place much stock in set piece work .  anything else to add ?  i think the club is playing the best football i have seen in my time going the match . martinez will get it right in the long run .  we could nick fourth spot if we keep playing positively , some of the fans get so down on the players so quickly now , they need to take a breath and realise what it was like under walter smith or worse mike walker ! coyb  send a story  advertising department  trinity mirror merseyside , the echo 's parent company , is one of the north west 's largest multimedia providers reaching more than 900,000 adults every month .  the liverpool echo , trinity mirror merseyside 's flagship brand , is the area 's best-read newspaper including national newspapers .  the liverpool echo reaches 1 in 3 people 256,000* people.the liverpool echo website reaches 1.5 million unique users each month who look at around 8.5 million pages** .  the editor  alastair machray  alastair machray was appointed editor of the liverpool echo in 2005 and is also editor-in-chief of trinity mirror merseyside , cheshire and north wales . he is a former editor of the daily post ( wales and england ) and editor-in-chief of the company 's welsh operations . married dad-of-two and keen golfer alastair is one of the longest-serving newspaper editors in the country . his titles have won numerous awards and spearheaded numerous successful campaigns .