How do you 'challenge the norm' to keep ahead of the data centre ...
http://www.computing.co.uk/ctg/analysis/2438406/how-do-you-challenge-the-norm-to-keep-ahead-of-the-data-centre-skills-game

As Doug Rode , senior managing director at technology recruitment specialist Page Group - a division of Michael Page - wrote in a Computing column last month :  " The challenge is not only to build a team that can manage modern , changing data infrastructures , but one that can adapt as that technology continues to evolve in years to come . As the technology inside data centres continues to change , so must the associated personnel . "  But where to start ? Computing 's research also showed that server virtualisation has been easily the leading consequential technology trend affecting the industry - selected as such by 57 per cent of those surveyed . However , many companies are approaching full server virtualisation and are moving to virtualise other areas of infrastructure and to outsource commodity services .  We consulted Rode again on this , asking how the jobs market can react to this trend , and what IT leaders can do to ensure they have a workforce to address it .  " IT leaders want to hire people that can adopting relevant trends that will benefit their organisation , " Rode told us .  " As trends grow , it can get harder to find candidates who have simply ' done the same thing ' for another organisation , and IT leaders need to ensure their existing workforce is continually developed and challenged to deliver the right level of value to their business . "  The most important skillset considered by those running a traditional data centre , a highly virtualised one or even a software-defined data centre remains " an understanding of technology " . Does this stack up with what Rode is asked to match in data centre recruitment ? What would Rode say his tech sector clients precisely want in terms of this " understanding " ?  " An ' understanding of technology ' is a key requirement we see , and that 's for two main reasons . One , people are able to do more than just ' plug and play ' roles - they can challenge the use of the current technologies , and work to improve and drive things forward , process . "  Rode continued : " Secondly , those with an ' understanding of technology ' tend to be the best people to translate the technology to other people in the organisation who do n't actually need or want to understand the detail , a skill which is increasingly important as technology functions need to operate at the heart of organisations . "  Hard IT skills are also no longer the be-all-and-end-all for data centre staff , with our research finding that negotiation and contractual skills are also what 41 per cent of our respondents wanted to see , especially at the mixed internal-external and software-defined end of the spectrum .  Rode is not at all surprised by this outcome , and actively encourages running a business where internal staff keep a firm control , no matter how much outsourcing might be increasing .  " As people look to outsource elements of their infrastructure , the internal functions need to ensure not only that they capitalise from any commercial benefits , but also that the providers are held to account to deliver as , ultimately , to their business , regardless of how that delivery is made up , " he said .  " Similarly , these skills are also useful in internal negotiations and communications to key internal partners and stakeholders . "  At software licence auditing time , which firm 's practices most leave you palpitating with rage and despair ? Your personal nightmare of a vendor not listed ? Email **29;1277;TOOLONG with your best software licensing stories !