Germany still opposes EU deposit guarantee plan, wants draft text ...
http://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-eu-summit-deposits-idUKKBN0TS1RW20151209

greek and others european national flags flutter near an euro symbol outside the eu parliament in brussels august 30 , 2011 .  reuters/francois lenoir  brussels/berlin germany reaffirmed on wednesday its opposition to european commission plans for a bank deposit guarantee scheme and vowed to water down a draft for next week 's eu summit which foresees the gradual introduction of such a scheme .  in the draft conclusions for the dec. 17-18 summit , seen by reuters , european union leaders will ask their finance ministers to urgently work on completing the eu 's banking union - a phrase used by officials to describe the deposit guarantee scheme .  but germany , the eu 's biggest economy , does not want its depositors to help guarantee deposit pay-outs in the event of bank failures in other euro zone countries . it insists the eu must first take steps to minimise risks to deposits before the start of any talks on sharing responsibility at the eu level .  " the german government has made clear its opposition to a european deposit guarantee scheme in a statement .  " in talks today on the draft it repeated this position and it will continue to do so , " he said .  seibert said the draft conclusions quoted by reuters had been presented on wednesday for the first time at ambassadorial level and would be " discussed and reworked " many times before the eu summit next week .  at the last eu summit in october , germany insisted on the removal of any reference to the european deposit guarantee plan .  the draft conclusions for this month 's summit had sought to address german concerns about collective responsibility .  " further work on reducing risks in the banking sector and weakening the link between banks and sovereigns should advance in parallel with the gradual introduction of a european deposit insurance scheme , " the draft text seen by reuters said .  in the draft conclusions , eu leaders would also ask their finance ministers to seek swiftly to streamline eu budget rules , set up a european fiscal board and help to establish national competitiveness boards .  the at the international monetary fund through better coordination of goals .  all these actions were proposed by the european commission in october as part of a roadmap for closer integration of the single currency area - the economic and monetary union - in order to minimise the chances of economic crises in the future .