Brains of gamers are wired differently to people who don't play ...
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-3370355/Brains-gamers-wired-differently-people-don-t-play-Scans-players-extra-connections-boost-reaction-times.html

It may be something many parents have already suspected , but it appears the brains of teenage boys who play video game compulsively are wired differently to other players .  Researchers have found people who play a lot of computer games tend to have hyperconnectivity between several key brain networks .  This is thought to help them respond to new information , but can also lead to them being easily distracted and having a more impulsive nature .  Researchers have found the brains of compulsive gamers have a greater level of connections between all of the key parts of the brain involved in vision , hearing , attention and impulsivity ( illustrated above ) . The researchers scanned the brains of 150 adolescent boys with internet game disorder  The findings could help researchers who are hoping to explore the impact that spending excessive amounts of time in front of a screen can have on youngsters .  Share this article  Many leading neuroscientists , including Baroness Susan Greenfield at Oxford University , have expressed concern at the impact of computer games and a neuroradiologist at the University of Utah 's school of medicine who led the latest study , said : ' Most of the differences we see could be considered beneficial .  SCRABBLE GIVES BRAINS A BOOST  If losing at Scrabble every Christmas makes you want to flip the board over in a rage , you might want to squeeze some practice in quickly .  Scientists have found that experienced Scrabble players use different parts of their brains than everyday players - particularly those associated with working memory and visual perception .  This helps them form words from the letter tiles quickly and developing this ability could boost your game scores and change the way you use your brain , Canadian researchers explained .  Competitive Scrabble players devote considerable time to studying words and practising word game-related skills such as anagramming - rearranging letters to make words - according to the study , published in the Elsevier journal Cortex .  To investigate the neural consequences of these skills , researchers from the University of Calgary compared the brain activity and connectivity in 12 Scrabble experts with However the good changes could be inseparable from problems that come with them . '  This is known as an obsession with video games that often leads youngsters to give up eating and sleeping to keep playing .  Scans of their brains revealed the teenagers had greater numbers of connections between parts of the brain that process vision or hearing and the salience network , which helps focus attention .  The researchers said this could help increase their co-ordination , meaning they can react more quickly to the rush of an oncoming character in a video game .  In real-life , it may also make them respond faster to an unfamiliar voice in a crowded room or react to a ball rolling out in front of a car .  ' Hyperconnectivity between these brain networks could lead to a more robust ability to direct attention toward targets , and to recognize novel information in the environment , ' said Dr Anderson .  ' The changes could essentially help someone to think more efficiently . '  However , the researchers also found increased connections between those who did not play video games as often .  Boys who compulsively play computer games ( stock image pictured ) show distinct differences in the way their brains are wired , with greater connections between areas that allow them to react to events happening around them . They also showed links seen in schizophrenics and those suffering from autism  The researchers looked at the connections between different key parts of the brain ( illustrated ) to see how they interacted with each other in gamers and non-gamers  Video gamers have connections in their brains that may make them respond quicker to events in a game or in real life , but they also show signs that are associated with impulsiveness and attention problems  This pattern is often seen in patients with psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia , Down 's Syndrome and autism , as well as in people with poor impulse control .  In total the researchers , whose findings are published in the journal Addiction Biology , found six connections between pairs of brain regions that seemed to be associated with internet gaming disorder with video games that they will often put off eating or sleeping in order to keep playing ( stock image pictured ) . However , it is unclear whether the differences seen in the study are caused by video games or people with these differences are drawn to video games  These included links between the areas that handle hearing , to movement and vision and the salience network .  However , it is not clear whether it is the persistent use of video gaming results in the rewiring of the brain , or if people with these brain patterns are drawn to video games .  The researchers , which included a team from Chung-Ang University in Korea , also intend to do follow up studies to determine whether boys with these brain differences do better on performance tests in the real world .