Sudbury soldier tapped for award
http://www.thesudburystar.com/2011/01/03/sudbury-soldier-tapped-for-award

When Master Cpl . Mike Trauner received a phone call from the To The Top Canada Award spokesperson , he thought it was a telemarketer .  " I was just shocked to get the phone call , " Trauner said from Petawawa . " I truly did n't believe this was actually happening . I never expected I would be the top Canadian of the year .  " I felt the same way when I was awarded the ( Military ) Medal of Valour , which was the best day of my life . "  Trauner does n't take any glory in his work in the military .  " It 's just my job that I love , " he said . " I do it for all the good intentions . "  On Jan. 8 ( designated To The Top Canada Day ) , Trauner will receive the award at Parliament Hill in Ottawa .  The To The Top Canada Award is similar to the People 's Choice Awards . Any Canadian can nominate another Canadian who they believe is the mindset of a positive citizen .  " Master Cpl . Mike Trauner is an outstanding role model , " Chris Robertson , a spokesperson with To The Top Canada , said . " He has given so much to our country and continues to give so much . He 's a leading example for when you have a positive attitude , nothing can stop you . He 's an inspiring role model for all Canadians . "  It was Trauner 's niece who nominated him . She 's an elementary school student who is also a cadet .  The 31-year-old solider was raised in Sudbury before he joined the Canadian Forces .  He attended St. Charles College . He then went to Cambrian College to study stationary engineering and follow in the footsteps of his father to work for a mining company .  After he graduated , there were no jobs available for him , so he went to the recruiting office and joined the Canadian Forces .  He had been working as a crew commander in Afghanistan for nearly three months before an .  Trauner was on foot patrol in the Zhari district with his section . Shortly after other platoons pushed past the patrol , the group formed an extended file , which involves placing roughly five metres of space between each person .  As they began walking , an improvised explosive device buried in the ground exploded . The force of the blast threw Trauner about 20 feet .  Trauner died twice and was resuscitated both times along the journey to a German hospital .  He lost both of his legs -- one above the knee , one below -- and had multiple fractures in his hands and forearm .  In a 2009 Sudbury Star interview , Trauner said was n't negative about his injuries .  " Emotionally , some days are hard , some days are good , " he said . " Just like anybody else , some days you feel down because you 've got to sit in bed and let yourself heal . "  Trauner had to get prosthetic legs , but the doctors told him he would n't be able the washroom or about 10 feet .  " I try not to use the wheelchair , " he said . " When I did walk they said I would have to use canes or crutches and I do n't use them . I walk around like any normal person . I start my day at 7 a.m. and go to bed at 10 p.m . I do get exhausted easily . "  About nine months after the explosion , Trauner walked five kilometres in the Army Run .  The broken bones in his hands have healed .  He participated in occupational therapy twice a day at the Ottawa Hospital Rehabilitation Centre for the nerves and muscles in his hands and to strengthen himself to walk on the prosthetic legs .  While learning how to walk again , Trauner raised $70,000 for the Ottawa Hospital Rehabilitation Centre in 13 months .  Trauner still works with the Canadian military at the Petawawa base .  If anyone on the base is injured , he will speak to them and guide them .  He travels across the injured soldiers .