I'm a 35-year-old woman with sudden hair loss. What's causing this?
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/health-and-fitness/ask-a-health-expert/im-a-35-year-old-woman-with-sudden-hair-loss-whats-causing-this/article566221/

i 'm a 35-year-old female and have noticed some sudden and , what i perceive to be , severe hair loss .  i think i 'm losing 200 to 300 hairs a day at least from all over my scalp , which is double or triple what i used to experience . i do n't seem to have any other symptoms . what is going on ?  the answer  hair loss can cause a significant change in appearance and can be very upsetting to experience . on average , normal hair loss is less than 100 hairs per day .  losing 200-300 hairs per day is abnormal , especially since you 've noticed a sudden increase in the amount . this may be an indication of your body responding to a stressful event , illness , hormonal imbalance or medication .  in your case , given that this is a sudden change , you have no other symptoms , and that it is generalized hair loss vs. patchy hair loss - this is most likely related to a condition called telogen effluvium of handfuls of hair and it is usually generalized involving the entire scalp .  telogen effluvium may occur when there is some type of shock to your system - either emotional or physical -which causes your hair roots to be pushed prematurely into a resting state that causes the hair to fall out in large amounts . this shock could be from medications , illness , a major life stress , pregnancy or crash diets . the hair loss can occur anywhere from 6 weeks to 4 months after the initial shock to your system .  the reassuring news is that hair typically grows back once the triggering situation or condition is not causing further stress . recovery can take several months and in general , no treatment is necessary .  while it sounds like what you are experiencing is telogen effluvium , i would still recommend seeing your doctor to confirm that there is no other cause for your hair loss .  other possible causes may include but are not limited to : medical conditions such as :  thyroid disorders  other hormonal imbalances , control pills and others  fungal infections .  it 's important to note that the most common cause of hair loss is hereditary thinning so let your doctor know if you have a family history of hair loss .  hair loss can be quite devastating and it may be an early sign of a potentially-reversible medical condition , so i would recommend a visit to your doctor . he or she may be able to take a complete history , run some simple tests , and make suggestions for reversing or treating a condition to prevent further hair loss .  send family doctor sheila wijayasinghe your questions at doctor@globeandmail.com . she will answer select questions , which could appear in the globe and mail and/or on the globe and mail web site . your name will not be published if your question is chosen .  the content provided in the globe and mail 's ask a health expert centre is for information purposes only and is neither intended to be relied upon nor to be a substitute for professional medical advice , diagnosis or treatment .