Cobras win Golden Boy Tournament
http://www.portagedailygraphic.com/2011/02/22/cobras-win-golden-boy-tournament

The Cobras won all four games at the Golden Boy International Soccer Tournament in Winnipeg over the weekend en route to winning the gold medal .  The Cobras were tops both offensively and defensively , tallying 12 times while only allowing four goals against .  The weekend started slowly for Portage , who trailed Dakota 2-0 in the opening game . However , the Cobras came together in the second half and got four goals to earn a 4-2 victory .  Portage then faced rival Oakbank in its second game . Oakbank rallied from a 2-0 deficit , but the Cobras were able to bounce back and earn a 3-2 win . It was Oakbank 's first loss of the season .  That catapulted the Cobras into a matchup with Whyte Ridge , which they won 4-0 , and allowed them to advance to the finals against Oakbank .  After a defensive struggle in the first half , Andrew Suggett connected from centre into the top right corner for the game 's only goal about 10 minutes into the second half . earned a 1-0 victory and the championship .  Head coach Chad Green called the game " a complete team effort " .  " Our team played so well to hold this team scoreless , " Green wrote in an email . " This was the highest scoring team in the league . "  Daylen Green , Connor Green and Cassidy George also took turns in net over the course of the weekend .  In addition to Suggett , Justin Stangl , Daylen Green , Kieran Derksen , Tyler Martens , Gavin Westbrook , Seth Bryson and Schellenberg all scored for the Cobras on the weekend .  Next up , the team will resume Winnipeg Youth Soccer Association postseason play against Oakbank on Sunday .  In related news , the Cobras have spots for players born in 1999 or 2000 open for the upcoming outdoor season . Tryouts will be held at Yellowquill School on March 16 from 7-8 p.m. , March 30 from 6-7:30 p.m. and April 6 from 6-7:30 p.m . For more information , contact head coach Chad Green at chadgreen9@shaw.ca.