Sarnia man sent to jail on his 20th birthday
http://www.theobserver.ca/2011/02/22/sarnia-man-sent-to-jail-on-his-20th-birthday

News Local  Sarnia man sent to jail on his 20th birthday  A Sarnia man marked his 20th birthday Tuesday by being sentenced to 11 months in jail for robbery and assault .  Timothy Duquette , had previously pleaded guilty in Sarnia court to robbery , possession of a stolen car , assaulting a police officer and a family member , and several court-order violations between October 2010 and January .  On Oct. 20 Duquette was tracked by an OPP dog from a stolen car that had crashed into a ditch to his hiding place in some bushes . He was n't driving the car and had n't stolen it .  Nov. 20 police were called to a home where he had assaulted a family member . Duquette struggled with the officer and smashed his head into the cruiser repeatedly .  He was pepper-sprayed during the struggle and spit blood on an officer .  At the hospital he was medicated after he repeatedly punched himself in the nose . A family member said Duquette was having a meltdown after refusing to a friend with a crowbar and took $400 from him . The victim suffered a broken nose .  His criminal record was admitted . Mental health assessments and other reports stand 10 inches high , but there are no quick fixes , said defence lawyer Jonathan George .  Nobody wants other people in the community harmed while he struggles with his issues , said assistant Crown attorney Aniko Coughlan .  " I am sorry . I hope I do n't return again , " Duquette told the court .  Justice Mark Hornblower said jail was the only option , noting his behaviour grew increasingly worse over the past three months , and recommended him to the St. Lawrence Valley Treatment Centre near Brockville , Ont . The centre takes men with serious mental illnesses serving provincial jail sentences .  The 11-month sentence was in addition to nearly two months of pre-sentence custody .  Serving the sentence elsewhere would be irresponsible given reports that predict Duquette will re-offend without treatment , said Hornblower .  Two years probation was imposed , when he must take recommended .  A 20-year weapons ban was also imposed and he must give police a DNA sample .