Apparently the Mastercard Centre for Hockey Excellence is a ...
http://torontolife.com/city/toronto-politics/ice-rink-sinkhole/

apparently the mastercard centre for hockey excellence is a financial sinkhole  hockey seems to be the topic of the day . first , the vancouver canucks get thumped by the boston bruins in game six of the stanley cup finals last night . then , early this afternoon , city council 's economic development committee put forward a request for rob ford to write a letter to the nhl commissioner expressing the city 's interest in a second nhl team ( it seems the request was summarily shut down ) . and last but not least , news broke that the city is embroiled in a financial snafu concerning a four-pad ice hockey rink in etobicoke .  the latest boondoggle to hit the city hall radar concerns the $43.4-million lakeshore lions arena , better known as the mastercard centre for hockey excellence .  the operators of the nearly two-year-old , four-pad complex on kipling ave . took on so much debt to build the centre , they are no longer able to cover their debt servicing costs and poised to default on their loans committee , at last count city hall had given the lakeshore lions $35.5 million in capital loan guarantees , making for a total debt of $43.4 million for the entire project . so , basically , the city guaranteed a loan for a bunch of investors who , apparently , had a hard time keeping to a budget and now ca n't meet the loan payments . and while the toronto sun puts the blame on the old david miller regime , they also note that every councillor save for mike del grande -- including the now mayor -- voted for this deal .  we ca n't help but notice that the city is also in for an expensive , multi-storey four-pad ice rink slated for the lower donlands as part of waterfront toronto 's redevelopment of the area . this deal is even sketchier than the etobicoke one , as the city does n't have the money for the full project . but , hey , at least the arena-funding mess in toronto is n't doing the same thing to council that the arena-funding mess in quebec city is @ @ @ @ @ @