First arrests in Ocean Lady human smuggling investigation
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/canada/first-arrests-in-ocean-lady-human-smuggling-investigation

First arrests in Ocean Lady human smuggling investigation  TORONTO -- The four suspected organizers of a human smuggling ship that brought dozens of Sri Lankan migrants to Canada 's West Coast in 2009 were arrested by RCMP officers in Toronto on Tuesday . The captains , chief engineer and assistant engineer of the MV Ocean Lady were charged with " organizing entry into Canada " and will be transported back to Vancouver this week to appear before a judge .  " These individuals are alleged to be involved with organizing the overall venture and being active leaders on the vessel , " Superintendent Tom Jones , head of the RCMP Border Integrity Program in B.C. , told reporters .  The arrests are the first to result from several ongoing RCMP investigations into Southeast Asia-based human smugglers who have ferried hundreds of Sri Lankan refugee claimants to Canada aboard two freighters .  They were arrested without incident after they were told to report to the Greater Toronto Canada Border Services Agency office on Tuesday morning . If convicted , the CBSA could attempt to a news conference , Supt. Jones declined to elaborate on what roles the men had allegedly played on the ship , but a classified document obtained by the National Post describes them as the operators of the vessel .  The Public Prosecution Service of Canada memo says Mr. Thevarajah , Mr. Appulonappa and Mr. Handasamy were found in the ship 's wheelhouse when it was boarded by RCMP officers . Several migrants also identified them as the bosses of the ship during interviews with RCMP and CBSA officers , it adds .  Anyone convicted of helping more than ten undocumented migrants enter Canada faces up to life imprisonment and a $1-million fine under Section 17.1 of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act .  Immigration Minister Jason Kenney told reporters in Ottawa following the arrests that Canada was open to asylum seekers but that paying a smuggling operation was " the worst and most dangerous way of coming to Canada . "  Public Safety Minister Vic Toews called human smuggling a " despicable crime " that takes advantage of underprivileged and desperate people . He said the Conservatives .  Asked why the bill was a priority , Mr. Toews said Canada needed to be prepared because it was being targeted by human smugglers . " We want to be able to say to Canadians we have done everything that we can in order to ensure that the appropriate legislative framework is in place . "  Formerly the Princess Easwary , the Ocean Lady left Indonesia in late July 2009 . After a stop in Thailand to pick up more passengers , and a second stop near the Philippines to deal with money problems , it crossed the Pacific , arriving off Vancouver Island on Oct. 17 .  All 76 men on board made refugee claims and were released by the Immigration and Refugee Board . Almost all have since moved to Toronto , home to one of the world 's largest ethnic Tamil populations .  The ship 's passengers and crew have said they were fleeing persecution in Sri Lanka , where the ethnic Tamil minority has long complained of discrimination under a government dominated by ethnic Sinhalese . A brutal civil war between Tamil Since the Ocean Lady reached Canadian waters , an RCMP investigation called Project E-Panurgic has been probing a dozen of those on board who were suspected of involvement in the smuggling operation .  The investigation was lengthy and plagued by problems , from a shortage of Tamil-language translators to troubles matching evidence found on the ship to specific migrants . A GPS device found on the ship contained no useful data .  The RCMP first sent its case to the prosecutors in Vancouver last October , recommending charges against a dozen of the migrants . But rather than approving the charges , the Crown responded with a scathing critique of the investigation .  The Crown wrote that RCMP interviews were " poorly done , " seized documents were not translated and that the analysis of evidence was " rudimentary . " The memo pointed to page after page of " problems , " " deficiencies " and " areas which require improvement before a prosecution can proceed . "  The Mounties responded that some of the points raised by prosecutors were inaccurate or unfair , but other investigation that ultimately led to the four arrests .  According to the Crown memo , Mr. Thevarajah was " in control of the vessel . " Witnesses said he was in charge of the engine room and gave orders on the ship . He also allegedly told five of the migrants to deposit their payments in a bank account . While most of the migrants stayed below deck , he allegedly slept by himself in a cabin .  Mr. Appulonappa was photographed while in the wheelhouse by a passing plane . Like the other two , he lived in a cabin . One of the migrants said he " supervised the engine room . " Another said Mr. Appulonappa had spoken to about 20 of the migrants at an apartment before they boarded the ship , telling them not to talk about the Tamil Tigers rebels .  A migrant considered a key witness in the case told police Mr. Appulonappa had brought 15 or 16 of the passengers above deck " to tell them they owed money for trip , " the memo says . The migrant said had absconded with their payments . The organizers wanted them to pay another $10,000 or said they or their families would be killed , the memo says .  Mr. Handasamy also allegedly lived in a cabin on the upper deck , where he worked in the bridge and steered the ship . Migrants staying in the ship 's hold allegedly had to ask for his permission before they could come up onto the deck .  Police believe he " played a role in smuggling the migrants to Canada , " the memo says . One of the migrants told police Mr. Handasamy picked him up at the airport in Indonesia and brought him to a small boat that ferried him out to the ship .  A shipping agent in the Philippines also identified him from a photo line up as the captain of the ship . A passing aircraft also photographed him in the wheelhouse during the voyage . He and Mr. Thevarajah were the " main people in charge , " a migrant told police .  Crown prosecutors have decided to proceed with direct indictments , to trial . This can take place with the approval of the Attorney General when there has been a significant delay in bringing a matter to trial , where witnesses are in danger or to ensure public confidence .  Ten months after the Ocean Lady reached Canada , a second ship called the MV Sun Sea made a similar voyage carrying 492 Sri Lankans who had boarded in southern Thailand . The same smugglers are suspected of involvement in both ships as well as a third that was disrupted by police last fall and another that police believe is still being organized .