Surging costs delay Sherritt project
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/surging-costs-delay-sherritt-project/article583233/

Sherritt International Corp . is the latest in growing list of mining companies to report double-digit cost increases and project delays resulting from surging prices for energy and raw materials .  Toronto-based Sherritt said the total cost of its 40-per-cent owned Ambatovy nickel-cobalt project in Madagascar is expected to rise 16 per cent to $5.5-billion ( U.S. ) . Production , set to begin this summer , is now delayed until the first quarter of next year .  Sherritt 's stock fell 6 per cent on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Tuesday , its lowest level since last summer .  Rising costs are becoming a huge hurdle for miners as they rush to boost production and capitalize on global demand and metal prices while they remain strong . The reaction to Sherritt 's outlook shows how skittish investors are right now in these volatile commodity markets , where certain metal prices have dropped sharply from record highs and some forecasts call for a cooling off of the current red-hot commodities cycle .  The softening of prices is due to concerns that demand from weaken as it takes measures to prevent its economy from overheating .  Sluggish economic growth in the United States and Europe is also weighing on the price of key industrial metals such as copper and nickel , considered a barometer of global economic growth .  Nickel has dropped by more than 20 per cent from highs reached earlier this year . The metal , used to make stainless steel , is now trading just above $10 ( U.S. ) per pound and is expected to fall further over the next few years as new mines and an increase in substitute products adds supply to the market .  In fact , nickel supply may be headed for the " biggest glut in four years , " according to a Bloomberg News survey this week of 17 analysts and traders . Nickel surpassed $20 per pound in 2007 , before falling to as low as five dollars during the global recession in 2008 .  A further drop in metal prices will create major problems for miners who have been ramping up production and pushing ahead with projects - and driven by rapid infrastructure growth in China .  Investors fear a repeat of the last time costs got out of control , just ahead of the global economic meltdown . Back then , commodity prices crashed and some projects were shelved because they were no longer economically viable .  While Sherritt 's Mr. Delaney acknowledged " the odds are stacked against us " when it comes to building a large-scale nickel laterite project , based on history of other similar projects that " have never lived up to their potential . " However , he tried to reassure investors Ambatovy will be done right .  " This is a business that we know , " he said . " We are not at all happy , or even a little bit complacent with the numbers that we are presenting today . ... However , we do n't believe in the long run these numbers will be consequential . "  Sherritt said a large chunk of the cost increase is due to inaccurate estimates of how much material was needed to build the project , as well as , as well as " poor performance by certain contractors . "  Ambatovy is expected to produce 60,000 tonnes of nickel annually and 5,600 tonnes of cobalt over a 27-year mine life .  Japan 's Sumitomo Corp . and Korea Resources each hold a 27.5-per-cent interest in the project , while Montreal 's SNC-Lavalin owns 5 per cent .  Sherritt is also the largest producer of thermal coal in Canada and is Cuba 's largest independent energy producer , with oil and power operations in the country .  Restrictions  All rights reserved . Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters . Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such content . ' Thomson Reuters ' and the Thomson Reuters logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies .