The impact of labour disputes vs. real threats to economic recovery
http://rabble.ca/columnists/2011/07/impact-labour-disputes-vs-real-threats-economic-recovery

The impact of labour disputes vs. real threats to economic recovery  Now that the mail is being delivered again , Canada 's economic prospects have brightened considerably . That is , if you believe the Harper government 's claims that the phony shutdown of Canada Post by its own management constituted a real and present danger to the national recovery .  The government justified the drama with the need to protect the recovery . Never mind that management 's argument for cutting wages and restructuring pensions was precisely that the post office 's importance was in historic decline . It seems that management and government alike are allowed to argue that the post office is either really important or not very important at all . ( The same double-speak applied to the Air Canada strike . )  I do n't know any economists who were losing sleep over the impact of either work stoppage on the national GDP . But many are increasingly preoccupied with several bigger threats that could undo the fragile recovery .  The government has indicated its willingness to interfere contractual outcomes , in the interests of preserving Canada 's economic momentum . That opens up a lot of terrain for shepherding our recovery . So let 's assign Ottawa 's control freaks to some truly important economic protection work .  Gasoline prices : Even at $1.25 a litre , gas prices will rip $40-billion from the pockets of Canadians this year . The soaring prices are a big reason why consumer spending has stopped in its tracks -- an alarming development that could precipitate a recession . And you ca n't invoke " market forces " to explain the prices . They 've been driven up by speculation , fat oil industry profits and OPEC 's continuing power .  Interest rates : The Bank of Canada is holding its prime rate at a historically low level . But the gap between that rate ( which chartered banks pay on their own borrowing ) and what banks charge their own customers has widened substantially . Spreads on credit cards and small business loans are even wider . No wonder the Big Six banks made $20-billion in profit last year is stuck in its tracks .  The loonie : According to the OECD , the fair value of our dollar ( based on purchasing power ) is 81 cents ( US ) . Currency traders have pushed it 25 per cent higher , jeopardizing Canada 's ability to sell anything ( other than oil ) to world markets . Again , savings on imports are n't passed on to consumers . But the pain to our export industries and the threat to our future growth are real .  All these issues reflect contractual dealings between private parties that are jeopardizing economic growth . All reflect the working of power and policy , not the " pure " forces of supply and demand . And all are amenable to myriad forms of government intervention to attain better prices in the interest of continued recovery .  Why is the government , so quick to intervene to suppress compensation for the humble folks who deliver our mail , standing on the sidelines while powerful people enrich themselves at the expense of our national prosperity ? Perhaps it 's not the economy is an economist with CAW . This article was first published in theGlobe and Mail .