Bedbug Busters
http://montrealgazette.com/business/bedbug-busters

bedbug busters  concerned about bedbugs ? here are some tips from ted wright , of the westmount legal clinic for renters who 've just moved , or are planning to move into a new apartment .  1 ) there is an epidemic of bedbugs in north america . it really started to pick up about three years ago .  2 ) legally , the landlord must take care of and solve any bedbug problems .  the landlord has the legal obligation of result . read articles 1910 to 1920 . ccq .  qu ? bec civil code article 1911 . the lessor is bound to deliver the dwelling in clean condition and the lessee is bound to keep it so . where the lessor carries out work in the dwelling , he shall restore it to clean condition .  1991 , c. 64 , a. 1911  3 ) it will be at the landlord 's cost to do the extermination required . it does not matter who caused the problem or from where the problem emanated . the landlord has civil code article 1912 . the following gave rise to the same remedies as failure to perform an obligation under the lease :  ( 1 ) failure on the part of the lessor or the lessee to comply with an obligation imposed by law with respect to the safety and sanitation of dwellings ;  ( 2 ) failure on the part of the lessor to comply with the minimum requirements fixed by law with respect to the maintenance , habitability , safety and sanitation of immovables comprising a dwelling . 1991 , c. 64 , a. 1912 .  4 ) if the tenant is the one ( proven ) who has caused the problem of bedbugs , the landlord may sue for recovery ofall costs . ( this could mean extermination costs for an entire building . ) .  5 ) tenants should :  a ) examine the premises before the move-in . examine the premises on the day .  b ) ask the landlord if there has been any problem in the last three years .  c ) ask the landlord if there tenants in the building if there are/have been problems .  e ) make absolutely certain they are not bringing the problem themselves .  f ) ask your friend-mover if they have any problems in their building .  g ) ask your friend-mover if they have had any problem in the past year .  it is unfortunate that the bedbug problem exists . it is the number one worry of many tenants and landlords . do your absolute best to avoid and or solve and or contain any recognized problem . read up on the internet . go to the city of montr ? al 's website. ( www.ville.montreal.qc.ca ) . call 311 if emergency .  tenants do have the legal right to not take possession of a dwelling , abandon and sue the landlord for damages and costs . ( see qu ? bec civil code , articles 1910 to 1921 ) .  comments  we encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . we are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we your comments relevant and respectful . if you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " x " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . we are using facebook commenting . visit our faq page for more information .