Tony Clement dodges flak over candid snapshot of Will and Kate
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/ottawa-notebook/tony-clement-dodges-flak-over-candid-snapshot-of-will-and-kate/article615659/

gallery  Known on Parliament Hill as the most prolific of political tweeters , Mr. Clement was simply playing to form Friday when posted the snapshot , a grainy image of the royal couple from behind .  The minister and his BlackBerry were in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations , attending the noon-hour ceremony on the Hill . Later , he watched the fireworks from the Lester B. Pearson Building where Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird held a reception .  Prince William and his wife , Catherine , dropped into the reception after spending about 30 minutes on the Hill , clapping and tapping their feet to the music of Sam Roberts and Great Big Sea at the evening concert .  And this is when Mr. Clement took his picture - as the couple was standing out on the ninth floor balcony admiring the view of the fireworks from behind Parliment Hill and over the Ottawa River . You can just make out the backs of the Prince and Duchess watching the bursts of light .  The Sun newspaper chain , however Mr. Clement , saying that Mr. Clement 's picture " has caused an uproar among media covering the Royal Tour by tweeting a picture of Will and Kate . "  " Some photographers covering the tour feel Clement used his political up-close access to the Royals to encroach on their strictly controlled territory , " she wrote .  The media has to be careful not to report verbatim conversations between the royal couple and those they meet during their walkabouts or events . But Mr. Clement is not a journalist . Rather , he 's simply a royal fan .  " Like thousands of other Cdn fans I took &amp; shared a pic of the Royals . Molehill , " he told The Globe via Twitter on Monday morning .  And a royal baby makes three ?  In the absence of any real news , the British press following the royal visit has seized upon a remark made by Catherine as a clue to her next project - a family .  Gordon Rayner , a journalist covering the tour for The Telegraph , wrote Monday is " feeling broody . "  David Cheater , who now lives in Quebec , offered his best wishes in her efforts to start a family . " Yes , I hope to , " she reportedly replied to him , setting off the rumour mill .  " It is the first time the Duchess has spoken publicly about having children , although Prince William stated when the couple got engaged that a family was something they both wanted , " Mr. Rayner wrote .  Teenage dream  In what may be one of his last acts as the Prime Minister 's communications director , Dimitri Soudas tweeted a pic of Stephen Harper and his daughter , Rachel , at the Katy Perry concert in Ottawa on Sunday night .  While Rachel may be a Katy Perry fan she is also very much a fan of cooking . Dressed in a chef 's jacket and apron , Rachel was helping the cooks at the recent garden party for media at 24 Sussex Drive . She also helped out at the garden party for MPs and friends of that he is leaving the PMO in September after years of loyal service to Mr. Harper . His replacement has not yet been announced .