Prisoners of the world, unite!
http://www.macleans.ca/news/canada/prisoners-of-the-world-unite/

in january 2010 , a 50-something inmate serving a life sentence at mountain institution , a medium-security prison in agassiz , british columbia , polled his fellow prisoners to see if they were in favour of starting a labour union . over 76 per cent of the inmates said yes . by march , he and a core group of 14 inmates at mountain had drafted a constitution for the union and have been working towards certification ever since . if the inmates are successful , the union will be the first of its kind in the country .  it 's not surprising the movement is happening at mountain , given its unique status as a work-focused prison where inmates must have steady jobs . as of 2007 , there were 449 inmates at mountain -- the majority of whom work in one of four industries : textiles , manufacturing , construction , and prison services , such as printing and laundry . they 've only recently met their first hurdle : getting 51 per cent of the prisoners to sign up . this is usually prison , where inmates have been denied the right to assemble .  in a press release , the prisoners said their proposed union would raise issues that " plague the prison population as a workforce , " including workplace safety , access to vocational training , and pay , which has n't been adjusted to inflation since 1986 . the union tactic comes in response to a dysfunctional inmate grievance system that is overloaded , understaffed , and inefficient . according to the correctional investigator 's office the volume of complaints has grown from around 20,000 in 2005-06 to over 28,000 in 2009-2010  a 2010 review of the complaints and grievance process by david mullan , a constitutional lawyer and professor emeritus at queen 's university , found " serious problems " with the current system . a routine grievance can take over 150 days from its initial filing to be resolved , in part because of improperly trained staff . ( mullan says staff do " little more than process paper . " ) and the system is tied up by " frequent users " -- serial grievers , mullan found that in some institutions , just a dozen offenders accounted for 11.3 per cent of all submissions .  canada 's prisoners ' rights movement dates back to the 70s , when a series of brutal uprisings and violent deaths spurred an overhaul of prison legislation , including extending the vote behind prison walls . since then , a series of legal reforms that have guaranteed rights to prisoners , notably the adoption of the charter of rights and freedoms in 1982 and the adoption of the corrections and conditional release act in 1992 , which includes the inmate grievance policy . in many respects , canada 's commitment to prisoner 's rights is admirable .  but just because something is written , does n't mean it 's enforced , cautions allan manson , a criminal law professor at queen 's university . " the problem , " says manson , " is enforcing compliance with the act and that continues to be a problem today . " there are statutory standards , he says , " but prisoners have to be able to force compliance . litigation , there has n't been a crucial mass of judicial scrutiny that will keep penitentiary officials in line . "  the correctional service of canada would n't speculate on the impact a union might have on the federal prison system and pointed out that inmates already have a say in their treatment . " each institution has an inmate committee which is formed to allow inmates to identify issues , including work-related issues , affecting them and to raise them with wardens and institutional staff , " csc spokesperson jean-paul lorieau wrote in an email to maclean 's . " so far no union has been formed , and we do not have any further comments on this issue . "  in the meantime , mountain inmates and natalie dunbar , a vancouver-based criminal lawyer who 's been serving as a liaison between the prison and the outside world , continue to organize . while the process is slow , dunbar is optimistic . she says a prisoners ' union could " change the dynamic " between guards and prisoners for the better . " prison staff are and believe it or not some of the issues intersect with prisoners issues . " ideally , dunbar says prison labour unions will propagate across the country : " mountain would be local 001 and hopefully kent would be unionized , then places throughout bc and then canada . " though , until then , " it 's baby steps , " she says . " we just want to get the application in at mountain . "  advertisement  post navigation  prisoners of the world , unite !  society will have issues if hard labour as punishment is considered abusive . outside the walls they would have no free vocational training , no immediate right to be checked by a doctor without a wait of hours to weeks , no mandated nutrition etc etc etc . prisons are not supposed to be nice places , that 's supposed to be part of the deterrent of lawful confinement .  one of the best features of a prison workout regimen is that it can be followed in virtually any environment . if you think about it , prison used and what ca n't , so with this routine there are no acceptable excuses . jail nation -- texas state jails  notice : your email may not yet have been verified . please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . if you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . you must have a verified email to submit a comment . once you have done so , check again .  sign in / sign up  with your existing account from  with an email account  commenters who signed up before june 26th , 2014 will have to reregister on our new , social-friendly login system . the good news ? the process should only take a few minutes , and you 're welcome to use the same email address .  almost done !  please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #socialregistrationform * * **27;27;toolong * * **26;56;toolong * * **30;84;toolong * * **29;116;toolong * by clicking " create account " , the website terms of service and privacy policy and that i agree to be bound by them .