Oilers' powerplay: putting the "bomb" in "abominable" since 2006
http://edmontonjournal.com/sports/hockey/nhl/cult-of-hockey/oilers-powerplay-putting-the-bomb-in-abominable-since-2006

" 100% of the shots you do n't take do n't go in. " -- Wayne Gretzky , famous Edmonton Oiler  * * * First things first : the " bomb " in the headline is a my-generation bomb , not the twisted new phrase . Oilers ' powerplay is not " the bomb " , it just bombs . Repeatedly . Perennially . Set the timer at two minutes and watch it wind inexorably down to zero . Boom , blow up the powerplay .  Fans of the Oilers do n't really need any math to tell us our powerplay stinks , but the numbers can illuminate where the problems lie . Last time we analyzed how the Oilers ' not-so-special team performed in 2010-11 , which is to say , not well . Here 's a condensed recap of just the top and bottom teams , featuring shots on goal per hour as the measuring stick .  We found the Oilers had fired by far the fewest shots per hour of powerplay time of any NHL team , way behind everybody else percentage was enough to lift them to just 27th in the all-important category of goal production . Terrible + mediocre = lousy .  I figured , no Souray , Hemsky injured , Whitney injured , too many rookies , and was that really Kelly Buchberger calling the shots ( or lack thereof ) ? Inquisitive son of a gun that I am , I figured let 's compare Coach Renney 's rancid results to those of his predecessor , Pat Quinn . Surely the Oiler fared better in 2009-10 ?  What do you know , there are Oilers in 30th spot for shots on goal again . Shooting percentage was pretty darn good , sixth in the NHL , but still only 19th in overall goal production . Nowhere near enough shots , seven per hour below the NHL norm . Terrible + good = below average . I do n't like how this is going .  But surely 2008-09 , the last year of Craig MacTavish 's reign at the helm , would yield different results . After all , the other two clubs were legitimately last-place bunch of statistical categories . MacT 's last team finished a quasi-respectable 21st in the standings . How about that powerplay ?  OK , so much for that theory . Last in the league in PP shots with a bullet , more than eight below the league average . Again a respectable shooting percentage ( 11th in the league ) meant the goal production was a little better , but 22nd overall is not going to win you anything , now is it ? Terrible + decent = poor .  Determined to find an efficient powerplay somewhere in living memory , I rolled back the statistical calendar at NHL.com another year . 2007-08 was nearly a magical season , at least there were some big games after the New Year , and the team made a late but unsuccessful run at the playoffs . The powerplay was a big part of that , was n't it ?  Well , sort of . That 15+ % finishing ability ranked third in the whole league , but that was based on far too few shots , ten below the league goals per hour . Terrible + excellent = poor . Got ta do something about that " Terrible " side of the equation , it reminds me of multiplying by zero . It never ends well .  ( Note that in 2007-08 and previous years , the league does n't split out time by manpower situation , so I was unable to make the adjustment for 5-on-3 time described last time . Gross minutes are all we have moving on back . )  Sigh . Let 's turn another page to 2006-07 , when Ryan Smyth last graced Oilers ' powerplay , at least for ? of the season before his tearful departure from the River City .  Well , what do you know . The shots rate is still horrible at under 40 per hour , but at least we have company in such laughingstocks as Chicago Blackhawks ( who were on their way to a draft lottery win ) . Oddly , even though the Oil were all the way up in 28th for shot production and their shooting percentage was middling at 17th in the , its worst such ranking in the five years we 've looked at to this point . Terrible + mediocre = lousy , take two .  One has to go back to 2005-06 to find an Oiler team that could hold its own and even do some damage with the man advantage . No table for this one as the Oil would be in that big gap in the middle , in fact a little above the middle . Led by one of hockey 's top powerplay quarterbacks in Chris Pronger , the Finals-bound Oilers were in the top half of the league across the board -- 13th in shots per hour , 12th in shooting percentage , 11th in goals per hour . Good + good = playoffs . Funny , that .  But to look at the five years since then is to see a sorry , sordid mess . Let 's recap for the whole league for that half-decade , adding a couple of columns for actual powerplay shots and goals :  One pattern worth mentioning from the league-wide perspective is how the number of 2005-06 , in the frenzy of whistles that was " The New NHL " , the typical team had 738 minutes with the man advantage , but in subsequent years that value dropped to 663 to 570 to 568 to 508 to 490 ( and those latter three totals have been adjusted upwards ! ) . From twelve hours year to eight , with no sign of a levelling off . Special teams will always be important of course , but they 're becoming less so by the year .  Turning back to the Edmonton perspective , the above is pretty much what you 'd expect given what we 've learned so far : Last with a bullet in shots , over three per hour below the next worst team and over eight off the league average . The squad was 15th in powerplay ice time , smack dab in the middle , but a distant last in gross shots , more than 100 behind second worst and nearly 400 below the league average . That is gross . Far too big a deficit to overcome even with above-average shooting number was enough to pull the Oilers up to just 28th in PPG/60 , and tied for 27th in total PP goals . While there is enough jitter in the data to question the crude equation More Shots = More Goals , there is excellent evidence to support the corollary No Shots = No Goals , the famous Gretzky Theory cited up top .  Five years , three different coaches , one persistent pattern . Over those years , the list of team leaders in powerplay goals has Dustin Penner leading the way with a relatively modest 33 ; beyond him , Shawn Horcoff ranked outside the league 's top 100 with his 28 snipes , and Ales Hemsky outside the top 150 with just 21 . Sheldon Souray had 12 one glorious season , but just two in the rest of his Oiler career . Ryan Smyth 's 14 powerplay goals in just 53 games in ' 06-07 stands as the best single season for any Oiler in that span . In the last two years with Hemsky battling injury , nobody has even reached double digits . It one could point to the signature combination of decently high-percentage shots but nowhere near enough of them and conclude " Ales Hemsky " . On the other , a doubting Thomas might note that four years into Sam Gagner 's NHL career , his team 's powerplay has had the worst shot production in the league every single year . ( The chance of that happening randomly is , after all , just one in 810,000 ( =304 ) ) . On both hands together , there are almost enough fingers to point at other culpable parties , from Sheldon Souray 's erratic play and health to Shawn Horcoff 's whiffs to the failure of anybody in the Lupul-Cole-O'Sullivan chain to hit his weight in powerplay goals . Then there has been the seeming failure of head coaches and special teams coaches to come up with a working alternative to the Studly Wonderbomb Strategy , and the desultory record of management who could n't convince Pronger or Smyth to stick around or find replacements who could deliver at their high level .  Beneath even that has been the persistent cruelty Injury who has been looking askance at Edmonton for pretty much the whole time under review here . At any point it seemed the team would be down at least two of its major powerplayers . Hemsky , Horcoff , Gagner , Souray , Visnovsky , Whitney . Multiple injuries , most of those guys . Serious injuries , season-enders . Even flexible kids like Eberle and Hall were n't immune to evil twists of fate .  I 'm sure the Oilers now have the firepower to work their way out of the paper bag eventually , but when ? Conventional wisdom suggests the reclaimed Smytty is too old , the kids too young , the prime-timers too fragile . Youth will be served , but it takes time to learn the tricks of the NHL trade . Hall , Eberle , and Paajarvi showed their chops at times last year , and their inexperience at other times . I 'm pretty confident the latter will disappear first . Linus Omark looked like the Next Hemsky at times on the powerplay , and at other times he looked even better . Then of course there 's the Current Hemsky , purportedly healthier than he has been in minutes and surely chomping at the bit thinking of all those hungry young mouths to feed . Ditto for Ryan Whitney who has driven some decent PP results in his all-too-brief time as an Oiler .  The wild card comes in the slender form of the latest whiz kid . Ryan Nugent-Hopkins was brilliant on the powerplay in junior , excelling on both points , the half wall , and the " traditional " centre post . The polished pivot 's PP proclivities potentially pave his path to the pros . How well , and how quickly , those skills translate against the best penalty killers and goalies in the world is an unknown until we actually see them all on the same ice . At first I 'm expecting to see healthy doses of both chops and inexperience . In the longer term I 'm pretty confident he 's a big part of the solution , but that may not happen in ' 11-12 .  All this impatient Oiler fan knows have been excruciating , and the so-called " man advantage " has only added to our pain .  Comments  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .