PEI fire marshal retires
http://www.theguardian.pe.ca/News/Local/2011-07-23/article-2672517/P.E.I.-fire-marshal-retires-/1

a long and distinguished career comes to an end next week as p.e.i. fire marshal dave blacquiere retires ending a 46-year run in the fire fighting service .  blacquiere has been p.e.i. 's fire marshal for the past 20 years and prior to that served as a firefighter for 26 years .  in his time as fire marshal , blacquiere has experienced the highs and the lows of the firefighting life .  blacquiere noted two very special events that came about during his years in the fire service . the first was the $3,000 tax break for volunteer firefighters , an issue he was involved in promoting since he became fire marshal .  " i started asking for that in 1992 or early in 1993 , " he said . " there was a firefighter in charlottetown by the name of johnny squarebriggs and he was on the charlottetown city council and i asked johnny because i was very disappointed that there was a tax break for firefighters , but you had to be earning significant money as a firefighter in order to of canadian municipalities meeting and it was brought up at that time . so , it 's taken from 1993 to 2011 , and believe me i was hammering on the doors for that for years . so am i pleased ? i 'm really pleased . "  another was being involved with getting community care facilities serviced by sprinkler systems . p.e.i. was the first province to do this . other provinces across the country have followed p.e.i. 's lead .  " like anybody who leaves their job there is a list of things you wish you could have done or could have done better , but you 've got to accept you ca n't do everything " he said . " one of the things that i 'm very pleased and proud of is that we were able to get all our community care facilities agreeing to sprinkler their places . since we 've done that other provinces have picked up on that . that makes me feel rather good because it is one segment of our society that is extremely vulnerable in fire situations , our involved with fire services also brings some devastating moments .  " there are a number of them that come to mind , " he said . " there was one where two young children perished and the mother was outside the house believing she had her child in her arms and all it was a blanket . she was in complete shock . i remember leaving that fire after investigating it and having to stop 20 miles down the road and have a good cry because all that was flashing back to me was my young family and thinking for just the luck of god it 's not my family . "  blacquiere said fires take their toll on firefighters .  " you just ca n't go to them and see the pain and suffering these people are going through and not feel it yourself , " he said .  for his replacement , blacquiere had some advice .  " the best advice i could give is to appreciate that he 's now in a position that he can help people , that he constantly be to fire situations and just keep people informed , " he said . " you 're in that position because there 's belief that you understand what 's required and help the people , deal with the people . sit down listen to the people and be out there for them constantly . "  after 46 years on the job blacquiere intends to " do a little traveling " and " play a lot of golf . "  " no doubt i 'll miss it , " blacquiere said friday . " but i have every belief that i 'm going to enjoy retirement . "  but he did hint that after a short break he will be available to help out fire services if the need him .  recent comments  we can hope his replacement is as decent as he was . i worry that what is to come will be an arrogant person who spent too much time at the trough . people who are truly intelligent do n't need to be bullies . please pick a smart one to represent all firefighters . has ever had . you deserve a joyful retirement . now it 's really time to " spray down and cool off " . god bless you dave as you carry on and enjoy what you truly deserve ............ peace  46 years of dedication , loyalty and sheer determination to help others in the manner that he knew best , through his own personal sacrifice . serving proudly in the royal canadian air force , earnestly representing the fire fighting community of pei , spearheading countless endeavours that have had profound affect on our world and how we care for those in it , david blacquiere , in my mind , is the epitome of what is right in this world ! i consider myself the luckiest man in the world because i am one of only two people who have the right to call this wonderful man dad ! congratulations on your retirement dad , thank you for everything you do for me and the world around me !