Stamps' switch hitter
http://www.lfpress.com/sports/football/2011/07/23/18459791.html

when the edmonton eskimos visited mcmahon stadium twice last year , it was painful for tim st. pierre .  as a linebacker/long-snapper for the eskimos , st. pierre was part of a team on the losing end of 56-15 and 52-5 beatings .  this year , st. pierre is expecting a much different outing for himself - and not just because he 's with the calgary stampeders .  in his first meeting against his former team , st. pierre is taking over as the starting fullback for the stamps .  and with the eskimos at 3-0 facing the 2-1 stamps , there should n't be a lopsided blowout between the west division rivals .  st. pierre had never taken a pounding like that in any level of football .  " i was on the winning side in college , " the 25-year-old said . " that was much more fun . being on the losing side is terrible .  " i 'm looking forward to being on the good side of the fans here this year and on this side pierre right after free-agency opened in february and told him immediately they would like to move him over to offence .  he was drafted as a linebacker and spent last season as the full-time long-snapper for the eskimos .  it 's a tough transition going from hitting to blocking , but stamps offensive co-ordinator dave dickenson likes what he 's seen in st. pierre and is confident he can replace rob cote , who is out with a knee injury .  " it 's gone amazingly well , " dickenson said about the experiment . " we 've tried that in the past and sometimes it 's been ok for the guy , but most of the time it 's something they are n't used to .  " i do believe tim is a quick learner , and he 's at least played the game and understands it . i feel confident he will do the right thing and give me everything he 's got . "  cote was hurt fairly early in the win last thursday over the winnipeg blue bombers , and st. pierre rolled out for a pass and showed some sure hands in catching the ball .  dickenson is impressed with his catching ability , which might be aided by handling the ball for snapping .  " originally , i was n't too sure , " dickenson said . " i called a play for him on the short yardage and he responded great .  " he 's caught the ball well in practice . if you have confidence in someone during practice , then it confirms you can call the play during the game . he showed he can do it . "  a year ago , the stamps tried moving mike cornell to fullback from linebacker , but cornell is now back playing his natural position for the eskimos .  st. pierre took to the change with excitement .  " a lot of people have asked me about the position change , but once you go through a cfl training camp , three or four weeks of that , it 's equivalent to three years in college in terms of knowledge you get , " staff and veterans around you , so you can pick it up quick . that 's what i 've been able to do . "