Trial by breathalyzer
http://www.vancouversun.com/news/Trial+breathalyzer/5147922/story.html

Featured photos  Many residents of Metro Vancouver felt shaking late Tuesday night , as a moderate earthquake struck near Victoria . The quake struck at 11:39 p.m. , about 20 kilometres north of Victoria and was felt across much of southern British Columbia .  Featured video  Being prepared will be the key to survival . The tectonic plates off the west coast are squeezing each other with tremendous force . When they break - which is a certainty - they will release a tremendous amount of force resulting in a massive earthquake and inevitable tsunami . People being prepared on the outer coast who may have 20 minutes before the tsunami hits , will be essential to survival .  Trial by breathalyzer  Mario Knezevic 's family arrived from Europe to help him celebrate his bravery medals for rescuing and resuscitating a drowned two-year-old .  He did n't expect he would also have to introduce them to B.C. 's new arbitrary , anti-drunk-driving program and its severe , some might even say draconian , punishments .  More importantly , perhaps , feeling of being treated unfairly and far too harshly .  And he is one of many thousands , if anecdotal evidence of lawyers is to be believed .  The B.C. government 's decision to rely on roadside breath tests prohibited by the courts for use as evidence may come back to haunt it -- evoking cynicism from citizens and censure from the court .  Police documents obtained exclusively by The Sun indicate the devices being used may give false readings and malfunction in many other ways .  The hand-held units were appropriate for their old use -- screening drivers who were then tested on more reliable machines with their Charter rights respected .  Now drivers are being stripped of their rights and the devices are being used to impose harsh and stigmatizing punishments , raising serious issues of basic fairness , proportionality and constitutional legitimacy .  The whole disturbing issue came into focus for Knezevic at the moment he should have been basking in the glow of the community 's recognition of his heroism .  A year ago , Knezevic pulled the unconscious girl CPR skills he learned more than a quarter century ago .  " I panicked , but it all came back to me , exactly like I was in the classroom , " he remembered .  " I put her down on the concrete . Her mouth was black , not blue , black , I did n't think she would come back . "  She did , with no ill-effects in spite of spending five minutes underwater unconscious , likely clinically dead .  Knezevic and his family partied the night away in March of 2011 , when he was awarded the gold medal ( along with a silver ) by the B.C. and Yukon Lifesaving Society for " the most heroic rescue " of the year .  He awoke with a start the next day , about 4:30 p.m. -- friends and kin would soon arrive at his Burnaby condo to continue the festivities and he had no liquor .  The 44-year-old , who came to Canada in 1991 from Croatia , threw on some clothes .  " I jumped in my car to , " he said .  Returning home , Knezevic was pulled over by an RCMP officer who ultimately asked him to blow into a roadside breathalyzer device .  " I had n't had a drink , " Knezevic insisted in an interview , still astounded the Mountie told him he failed .  He discounted the idea that he consumed so much the night before , he was still intoxicated -- he felt fine , his eyes were clear , his speech normal , his physical responses steady , and he had slept for seven hours .  " I said , ' No way ! I have n't had a drink -- I just went to get the alcohol . Let me do it again . ' "  He did , and again the officer said Knezevic failed .  " That 's not possible , " he told the cop . " Did n't matter . They impounded my car for a month , gave me a three-month suspension , plus after that , they said I had to install an Interlock alcohol detection device that start for one year . "  For Knezevic , as for thousands of British Columbians caught in the new **25;55;TOOLONG driftnet who believe in the goals of the vaunted strategy , the disillusionment and bad taste left in his mouth were unexpected .  Unlike radar guns that are checked before and after each shift , or reliable tabletop breathalyzer units that use an external device to ensure calibration , the hand-held AlcoSensor IV DWF Screeners used in the province are checked and calibrated only once a month .  Freedom-of-information requests for calibration and maintenance reports show police forces are using their own record-keeping systems and sometimes dated recalibration forms from 1998 .  There is a paucity of detail in the reports amid suggestions faulty devices may have been used on drivers .  " It 's frightening , " said Vancouver lawyer Paul Doroshenko , who defends impaired-driving cases and made the information requests to learn more about the devices .  " There is little consistency with the way calibration information is recorded from one police department to the next . If you were honestly using more reliable machine , it would be fine . Using it in this manner demands far more rigour . "  The devices have been a focus of critics since the new stricter drinking-and-driving regime came into effect last Sept. 20 .  On Nov. 19 , Victoria Police Chief Jamie Graham , as chairman of the B.C. Association of Chiefs of Police traffic safety committee , recalled the 2,200 units in use across the province because of an unreasonable margin of error .  The RCMP lab found the units could indicate a reading over .05 when the driver was actually under it . The devices were recalibrated so the " warn " reading now is putatively obtained if the driver blows .06 , recognizing the potential machine error .  Regardless , the devices do not give a numeric readout but flash only " warn " or " fail . "  That 's why the RCMP training manual warns officers that results from the units " do not always correspond with those of a subsequent Approved Instrument test . "  Doroshenko said he sought for months -- documents from the province 's 11 municipal departments and RCMP .  In Washington state , information about breathalyzer maintenance is available online .  The RCMP , Doroshenko said , has dragged its feet providing such data . For instance , detachments have told him to call Ottawa or that they do n't feel obligated to release the material because criminal disclosure requirements do n't apply .  The Delta police department refused to provide the information , saying in a letter that doing so would " definitely interfere with the operations of our department , specifically assigning a traffic member to spend many hours gathering and producing the data . "  But other forces are complying .  New Westminster produced two pages of maintenance records that showed one unit had a major fuel cell leak but little other detail ; the department 's calibration check sheets often did n't record results .  Oak Bay 's four units all appear to be working , but again they do n't record the results of the calibration tests , so you ca n't see if there is a trend its 12 units .  Port Moody 's reports reveal a unit " in multiple times for repairs &amp; is still not working ; " another " unit not working ; " a third " will not SET when button is depressed ; " another required its battery contacts and temperature sensor resoldered .  Here is a sampling of Abbotsford 's 27 units :  Unit 41149 was over-reporting Oct. 28 but has since gone missing ; unit 41150 was permanently removed from service in February because it was over-reporting ; unit 41153 was over-reporting Oct. 28 and under-reporting Nov. 10 ; unit 56513 over-reporting Feb. 26 ; unit 61142 over-reporting on Dec. 3 ; unit 85246 would not calibrate on Dec. 13 ; unit 85247 was over-reporting Feb. 27 ; unit 85249 was over-reporting May 4 ...  Units out of calibration may have been giving faulty readings for up to a month . But how often a unit is used each month is unknown because it depends on enforcement patterns .  The records show that aside from the variances recorded from month to month , the devices , damaged mouthpiece retainers , wonky circuit boards and more .  " They are a screening device , " lawyer Doroshenko emphasized . " They the police know they are not perfect , they know they make mistakes . Now they have been elevated to an evidentiary level and used to punish people harshly based on their results . It 's wrong in my view . "  The devices used to be recalibrated every two weeks but since they were only used to help trigger a criminal investigation , not as evidence , a 30-day period between checks was deemed sufficient .  In a 2005 decision , known as R. v. Orbanski , the Supreme Court of Canada said that these kinds of roadside checks , during which a driver is detained and unable to exercise his or her right to counsel , are only allowed under the Charter if the information obtained is not used against the motorist .  The results of roadside vetting for alcohol consumption can not be used as evidence to incriminate the driver on a criminal charge , only to establish reasonable  A ruling in B.C. Supreme Court in 2009 , R. v. Shultz , confirmed that Orbanski similarly applied to the Motor Vehicle Act , the provincial law under which the new regime is authorized .  Civil libertarians argue Victoria is using legislative sleight-of-hand to make the court rulings and drivers ' Charter rights seemingly vanish .  With changes to the Motor Vehicle Act , the province also is imposing stiffer-than-criminal punishment and transgressing on federal jurisdiction .  " It 's quite a disturbing piece of legislation , " says Doroshenko , who has many clients upset at what happened to them . " I 'm shocked by it . "  Victoria defends its approach and disagrees with opponents of the law , but wo n't comment because the issue is before the courts . Similarly , lawyers behind the constitutional challenge are reticent .  A criminal conviction for impaired driving or blowing over .08 on a reliable breathalyzer carries a punishment that on average amounts to a $1,000 fine , a record and a one-year driving prohibition .  In B.C. you must also take reinstated , it restricts you from operating any vehicle that does not have an Interlock .  Getting to that point is expensive and , because the full panoply of Charter rights is in play , time consuming -- it usually takes over a year unless there is a guilty plea .  Under the new system , you get an immediate three-month driving prohibition , a year 's driving restriction with the Interlock , have to take the course and pay nearly $5,000 in fees and fines -- with no legal rights .  This approach was intended as a solution to the spiralling costs associated with the thousands of drunk-driving charges that clot the legal system -- judges , prosecutors and police salaries , etc. -- and to generate money .  The framers of this scheme thought as many as 13,000 drivers a year would be captured . It could be double that given the numbers generated in the first six months .  This is all via a process that takes 20 minutes compared to the four days it reportedly costs in police time for each drinking-and-driving provincial government consciously embarked on this path . It was discussed in the legislature .  The B.C. Liberals and the NDP both support it -- this is not a partisan issue .  Potential court challenges were raised and considered . As a result , the law was deliberately crafted in an attempt to skirt constitutional landmines .  First , last July , without fanfare the government changed the duties of police officers under the Motor Vehicle Act .  They were no longer required to provide sworn information , for instance .  The old Administrative Driving Prohibition regime approved by the courts did not allow that and there are other significant differences .  It 's understandable the government did this . There 's a serious problem with drinking driving and no one has come up with a good solution so far .  There is enormous pressure from special interest groups and a public outcry over the continuing carnage . And this big stick seems to be working -- deaths reputedly fell to 30 from the five-year average of 61 during the first six months the are being pulled over putatively for the criminal offence of drinking driving , but they are no longer being dealt with criminally and are losing their rights .  The goals are worthy , but has the government found the right solution to drinking drivers and implemented it in a constitutionally correct manner ? Should the punishment be this stiff , bearing in mind the devices are not checked daily , were not intended for this purpose and can have major problems that the officer at the roadside may not notice ?  B.C. Supreme Court Justice Jon Sigurdson is deliberating about all of this and more in a challenge to the law . His ruling is expected by fall .  Meanwhile , a month before his prohibition expired , Knezevic called to have an Interlock installed on his luxury Audi A8L .  For the next month , he bounced between garages -- two in Vancouver , two in Richmond -- vainly trying to have the device put in his car . No one was able to do it .  He called Motor Vehicles and told them no They said , " Sir , you have to sell or downgrade your vehicle . "  " I did n't have a choice , " he complained , still irked .  " I sold the car . I lost $22,000 on it . Then I have to buy another car and I ca n't get a high-end diesel one because they 're not sure they can put it in that either . I do n't want to buy a piece of junk , so I got a GTI Golf , brand new $41,000 . That took another month without a driver 's licence . It was like being in jail . "  Today , Knezevic drives his Interlock-equipped VW and ca n't wait for his year-long restriction to expire and to lose the embarrassing device .  He asked ICBC to give him a month 's credit for the four weeks beyond his initial 90-day prohibition it took him to sell his car , buy a new one and have his licence reinstated .  They told him too bad : It was a one-year restriction from the n't believe there was residual alcohol in his system : It was a flaw in the device :  " Seven hours ? I slept seven hours . "  The small businessman , who runs his own maintenance and construction company , thinks the device was wrong and that he should have been able to question its functioning , at least to see what he blew , or have some rights of appeal .  " I spent $500 for a lawyer and he told me there was nothing could be done -- you ca n't win an appeal , " Knezevic said ,  He was told the law permits only a handful of defences : You were n't in control of a vehicle , the test did n't indicate a fail or warn , you did n't refuse to blow or had a reasonable excuse for not blowing or failing .  " It 's unfair . . . . And they did n't give me credit for that month and they forced me to sell my car , I lost money and they forced me to buy n't drinking -- the Mountie could see I was totally normal . "  We encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts . We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion , so we ask you to avoid personal attacks , and please keep your comments relevant and respectful . If you encounter a comment that is abusive , click the " X " in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse . We are using Facebook commenting . Visit our FAQ page for more information .