Parents take aim at CAS
http://www.thebarrieexaminer.com/2011/08/05/parents-take-aim-at-cas

the intersection at mulcaster and collier streets became a forum of tears , anger and speeches in the name of children and families under the blanket of child services , friday .  parents rallied as they demanded accountability for the actions of children 's aid society ( cas ) workers .  barrie resident wendy hart shared her " horror story . "  " they violated us . when you 're going through it ( cas ) you do n't realize how bad it is , " hart said . " my son has scars all over him because they would n't send him home . he was 16 . he should n't have even been in a home . "  hart 's son , now 18 , had just come back into her life after years in cas custody when agents showed up on her hospital room after giving birth to her daughter .  " three days after i had a c-section , two cas workers came to our hospital room and said we could not leave without talking to them , to them and exposing my breast and feeding in front of them , they said they wanted to come home with us that night . "  hart said her file with the cas was closed at the time , but the agency 's procedures meant six months of constant monitoring .  " we wanted to take our daughter home and enjoy the moment and not worry about a cas investigation , " she said . " it ruined our time with her and i 've never cried so hard . "  earlier this week , gary perdue , media representative for the simcoe county cas , said the organization is governed by provincial legislation and there are " a significant number " of accountability measures in place . " if a member of the public has a complaint , there is a review board set , so this is a neutral independent third party , " he said .  perdue said the cas has a solid approach to dealing with complaints of children in distress .  " we respect people 's opinions who may think differently he said . " we always respect people 's rights to voice their opinions . "  pat hudak made the drive to barrie from port colborne to have his voice heard .  " we came from all over ontario , " he said . " the goal for today is to bring awareness to the unlawful practice of social work and how the social workers are skirting the law . "  hudak and hart say the cas can take a child based on little evidence of abuse or mistreatment , and can even interview children without parents knowing .  " no one knows what 's going on unless you 're in the middle of it. , " he said .  because cas is governed by a third-party organization , hired by the society , hudak says investigations into mistreating children , unqualified workers , child deaths and improper interview techniques are never reported to the public .  " we want accountability and transparency , which we do n't have , " he said . " we want them all registered with the college of social . "  groups such as the children and families advocating for accountability and canada court watch have been trying to have laws changed so ontario ombudsman andre marin can investigate cas complaints , which hudak said is n't in the legislature .  " they claim to have oversight , but they do n't , " he said . " they 're a private organization . "  velvet martin returned from alberta to attend a series of rallies , including barrie 's , to share the story of her daughter , samantha , and how she died in child services custody at 13 .  " she had 10 years of seizures that went untreated and the foster mother was approached by medical professionals , schools and myself , and she said i did n't see any myself , " she said . " my daughter received seven broken bones , three of them were in her femur , and i learned , following the fact , that my little girl died of a heart attack at age 13 . "  martin said she wanted to expose the " the majority of people believe in the stigma of somebody must have done something wrong , " she said . " it happens to middle-class people , it happens to professional people , and i think the public needs to become aware of that . "