Arctic ice loss has been much worse historically: study
http://www.nunatsiaqonline.ca/stories/article/08887_arctic_ice_loss_has_been_much_worse_historically_study/

arctic ice loss has been much worse historically : study  " the ice will not reach a point of no return "  special to nunatsiaq news  a chunk of spruce , typical of driftwood on the northern shore of greenland , being sawn up for identification and carbon-14 dating . scientists say the wood probably originated in forests in the drainage area of canada 's mackenzie or yukon rivers about 2,000 years ago , and was carried by ice on a 5,000-km trip across the arctic ocean to greenland . ( photo courtesy of science/aaas )  margaret munro postmedia news  the meltdown underway in the arctic is remarkable , but an international team of beachcombers has uncovered evidence it 's been much worse before .  driftwood from canada , alaska and siberia picked up on the planet 's most northern beaches indicates that , for several thousand of the past 10,000 years , there was at least 50 per cent less sea ice in the arctic than there is today , the team reports friday in the journal science .  beaches , which are now locked in ice year-round , say the scientists , who have weathered fierce summer snowstorms on their beachcombing expeditions .  while the researchers say they expect global warming will eventually make the arctic sea ice disappear , they say the dire warnings about its imminent demise have been overstated .  " the bad news is that there is a clear connection between temperature and the amount of sea ice , " says lead author svend funder , at the university of copenhagen , adding there is " no doubt " continued global warming will reduce arctic summer sea ice .  " the good news is that even with a reduction to less than 50 per cent of the current amount of sea ice , the ice will not reach a point of no return , " says funder , who has headed several treks to the inhospitable north coast of greenland to get a better read on how the ice waxes and wanes .  satellite records showing how the ice grows and retreats only go back to early 1979 -- and suggest the greenland north coast provides valuable long-term perspective , with the driftwood and sand on the beaches recording ice trends that go back 10,000 years .  between 8,000 to 5,000 years ago , when the temperatures were warmer than today , funder and his colleagues report , there was probably less than 50 per cent of the summer 2007 ice coverage , which was the lowest in 30-year satellite record .  during the pre-historic warm period , they say , the southern limit of greenland 's year-round sea ice was about 1,000 kilometres north of where it is today .  the data was gathered on beaches , which are now locked behind ice that lasts all year on the northern coast of greenland . but ridges along the beaches , dating back thousands of years , show that waves used to break along the coast , indicating plenty of open water , report the scientists , who mapped beach ridges extending 500 kilometres along the coast .  the driftwood is even more telling , revealing when the ice returned and how it moved around .  funder ice . that 's because it would take several years for wood to make it across the arctic ocean and " driftwood would not be able to stay afloat for that long . "  the most direct route is from central siberia , with larch from the siberian forest arriving in greenland after a trip on the ice lasting two to five years .  " the voyage form north america is more precarious , " the researchers say , because the wood had to go from the beaufort sea and then make a detour around past siberia , increasing the travel time to six years or more . ( ice travels around the arctic counter-clockwise . )  spruce from canada and alaska started showing up on the greenland beaches about 6,000 years ago , and increased with the climatic cooling that then occurred , funder said via email .  he said spruce makes up about 40 per cent of all the driftwood , " which at first glance is surprising " considering that the travel route is much longer than from siberia .  " the reason arctic ocean the american ice grows to be very thick and therefore a more robust wood-carrier than the thinner siberian ice with its much shorter passage , " he said .  funder said the results support the idea that sea ice could regenerate even if it 's reduced to half its current amount . but reversing the current ice loss , he said , " will require that global warming is brought to a halt , or at least slowed down significantly . "  while some scientists have predicted the arctic could be ice free by the summer by 2030 or earlier , funder said he expects the summer ice could last until the end of the century . his team 's finding also indicates the wind plays a large and under-appreciated role in shifting ice around , which could slow the loss .