Eadrey Foods and Goods and Provisions: two upcoming Leslieville ...
http://torontolife.com/food/restaurants/eadrey-goods-and-provisions/

Blink , and it was gone . The Foodist Market , which itself had replaced the ill-fated juice bar Pulp Kitchen , opened and closed quicker than its detractors could mutter , " Expired Earthbound organic mixed greens ? ! " We hope Eadrey Hemmings has more staying power . Since 2004 , the Jamaican expat has been whipping up her small-batch homemade hot sauces , marinades and rubs for other retailers . Now they share the folksy white shelves of Eadrey Foods , her soon-to-open Queen East shop , with Jamaican Blue Mountain coffee and other local and international goodies . The space is homey , in shades of chocolate brown and white , with a colourful painting of lush , red poppies on the walls . Hemmings is n't a trained chef , but she has worked in kitchens since she was 15 . Expect the display cooler to be brimming with grab-and-go sandwiches -- made with breads from St. John 's Bakery -- savoury pot pies , salads and roti . But not just any roti -- Eadrey 's own jerk chicken roti with ? Ting , of course .  ( Image : Signe Langford )  Across the street from Eadrey 's is a sign bearing three auspicious little words : " Food , Liquor , Oysters . " Nikki Andriet and Dean Fletcher , co-owners of The Comrade , are branching out -- albeit not too far from the tree -- with Goods and Provisions , a new bistro and bar . Antique fair finds and salvaged treasures fill the charming 30-seat space , including original signage from the Big Bop , shabby-chic furniture , time-battered photographs of nameless , long-dead soldiers in uniform and a stunning marble bar . The menu , by 37-year-old chef Keith Hosein , promises to be as eccentric as the room . Born in Trinidad and raised in Winnipeg , Hosein has cooked his way up and down the West Coast in Seattle , Vancouver and California , but has spent the last three years honing his skills in Toronto , lately at Table 17 . And though the owners are remaining tight-lipped , we can say that in addition to the aforementioned oysters , there with idiosyncratic twists courtesy of their time spent travelling throughout Asia and their shared love of street food . Fletcher says , " We just want the place to be fun and the food to be amazing . It 's just a neighbourhood place ... We plan to under-promise and over-deliver ! "