High achievers, high anxieties
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/careers/career-advice/high-achievers-high-anxieties/article4258458/

You 're a driven executive on the fast track . You work long hours and obsess about every detail , because you want to ensure you 're always doing the best job possible .  You 're achieving your career dream and should be basking in glory -- but instead there 's a good chance you 're secretly plagued by fears and self-doubts and are prone to resist change .  It 's a reality that could ultimately undermine your climb to the top , or sabotage you when you get there , a new book warns .  Performance anxiety is n't something high achievers usually admit , whether to their closest friends or even themselves , but it 's a pervasive problem among leaders , according to Harvard University management professor Thomas DeLong .  " It 's necessity , in a way , for top-level executives to have an insatiable drive to achieve . Some overcome their fears , adopt new behaviours and lead enormously successful , fulfilled lives . Unfortunately , they are a minority , " said Prof. DeLong , author of Fuel for Success .  In research he has done as a consultant to top executives , Prof. Delong has found that three things commonly create anxiety in high achievers : fear of being wrong , doubt about the significance of what they are accomplishing , and a feeling of being socially isolated .  " To try to relieve their anxiety , highly driven people are prone to try to stay as busy as possible , compare themselves to others and blame others for their frustrations , " Prof. DeLong said . Ultimately , these reactions not only create blind spots in their leadership , but can paralyze highly competent people into inaction and ultimately lead to failure .  His research found that certain types of professions are particularly attractive to driven personalities . Partners in top-tier law firms , investment bankers , surgeons and most chief executive officers have this kind of drive , he said .  Most executives know that they must continually find new ways to do things , but secretly they resist change because they fear taking on unfamiliar tasks they might initially do to do what they know the can do well . "  Fortunately , he has found that professionals who recognize their fears and take action to work through their blind spots can become more adaptive and less brittle -- and ultimately more successful .   AVOIDING PITFALLS  Four common traps can keep you from changing . Here 's how to avoid them :  Being busy  Symptoms : You walk fast , talk fast and have little time for small talk . You keep your agenda full , racing from one meeting to the next , spending hours each day on your BlackBerry and e-mails .  Reality : Much of your frenetic pace and harried attitude is for show . Deep down , you believe that by staying on the run and creating the impression you are purposeful , you will stay ahead of your worries .  Prescription : Be aware you are doing this and become more aware of the way people are reacting to you . Impose a limit on electronics , phone conversations , meetings and business travel time . Make time anything other than job-related tasks . At home , set times when using the phone and checking electronic messages are off-limits .  Comparing  Symptoms : Making comparisons is a reflex reaction : you 're fretting that you are not measuring up to others in terms of salary , bonuses , performance , perks and reputation in the industry .  Reality : No one has it all .  Prescription : Put away the mental measuring tape . You will have more of everything if instead of worrying about the competition , you focus on facing up to the risks and changes you have to make to excel .  Blaming  Symptoms : Accomplished , driven people find it difficult to accept feedback if they have n't met all expectations . Instead of accepting that they need to adjust and change , they tell themselves it 's not their fault ; so it must be someone else 's .  Reality : Ask yourself : Are you really blame-free ? High-achieving professionals filter their behaviour through their egos , so they feel they must be right because they that you have a role in a failure . Seek advice from a mentor or trusted expert to help analyze what you may be doing wrong and find ways to avoid making the mistake again .  Worrying  Symptoms : The higher you go on the career ladder , the bigger the stakes and the more you need to make calls in unfamiliar areas that can keep you up nights fretting about a potential crisis lurking ahead .  Reality : Obsessing about potential doom is a self-fulfilling trap .  Prescription : Some worry is normal . But excessive worry can lead to cynicism and negativity , which can be contagious to all members of your team . Your real focus should be on making sure you 're doing quality work and adapting to changing needs . Keep reminding yourself that even if a problem develops in one area , you 're performing well in others .  Based on Flying Without a Net , by Thomas DeLong   FACING YOUR FEARS  Thomas DeLong 's prescription for facing up to fear of change :  Self-reflection  you feel uncomfortable and admit to yourself that you feel safest what you 've learned to be good at . Accept that you feel vulnerable doing something you 're not good at yet .  Set a goal change  Create a vision of what you yearn to achieve , one that is worth making sacrifices to accomplish . Actions seem less daunting if you focus on the long-term future result rather than difficult present actions or decisions .  Acknowledge need to act  Overcome your fear of vulnerability by focusing on your need to achieve . Make change a goal that you must achieve , and that you will not allow self-doubt to keep you from reaching .  Accept weakness  Think of uncertainty and potential slip-ups as necessary prices you must pay to learn and grow .  Create an agenda  Compile a detailed agenda in the form of short-term , medium and long-range career and development goals . Making a detailed list may feel mechanical , but it is something you can put on your mirror or keep in your car to refer to is a support network  Share your goals with a close friend or work colleague who can keep checking in on whether you are progressing and will help you get through rough patches . Ideally this person will be someone who shares a high need for achievement .  Do n't hesitate  Act -- do n't circle back to second guess yourself . Even if it 's not perfect solution , having made a decisive plan is better than indecision .  Look in the long-range mirror  Picture yourself not changing , and doing the same thing you 're currently doing five or 10 years from now . As a driven professional , the last thing you want for your future is to remain as -- and where -- you are now .  Restrictions  All rights reserved . Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content , including by framing or similar means , is prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters . Thomson Reuters is not liable for any errors or delays in Thomson Reuters content , or for any actions taken in reliance on such logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies .