Fashion Week goes rogue
http://www.thestar.com/life/fashion_style/2011/10/13/fashion_week_goes_rogue.html

maybe she 's both . the runway show producer has mounted a serious challenge to the fashion establishment , while presenting the public with an event filled with possibility .  on this weekday , the 42-year-old is standing in the opulent , chandeliered ballroom of toronto 's five-star ritz carlton , showing a guest her vision of the canadian fashion scene . it somehow looks a lot more enticing than the tented confines of the city 's lg fashion week , which starts next week .  " that 's where the runway will be . it will be small , intimate , invitation-only so that the guests can really see and feel what the designers are doing , " says fullerton , in a black turtleneck and signature herm ? s calfskin belt . " i think it will be really special . "  as long as fashion week has existed , there have been designers who are less than enamoured with the " one size fits all " philosophy of the fashion design council of canada ( fdcc ) , which puts on outside their signature tents .  but fullerton seems to have created credible contender status in her two-day event , called the shows , which started thursday . hosted by model and actress coco rocha , it has shaped up to be the hottest annual ticket for some fashionistas .  fullerton 's formula is simple . it consists of homegrown designers , such as calla haynes , jean-pierre braganza , todd lynn and thomas tait , who have achieved critical acclaim abroad , showcasing their collections at a five-star venue . there will be high-profile media , stylists and socialites in a salon-like setting . and , more often than not , it will eclipse the activity of the official week that will eventually take place across from the ritz in tents at david pecaut square .  while fullerton 's reach may seem profound , her down-to-earth persona belies that ambition .  " i do n't think we 're being disruptive , there is lots of room for another show . it 's just a birthday party on another day , " she says diplomatically .  but fashion industry , as well as corporate canada , has taken notice .  at fashion week , designers typically pay for their shows , which means big mainstream brands with deep pockets are amply represented . fullerton 's project is by invite only -- so you ca n't pay for runway time .  after all , even though fashion week does promote many up-and-coming designers , jaded fans looking for the next big thing are not always impressed by brands such as joe fresh and jay manuel by sears .  this has given fullerton a unique niche . last year she debuted her show in the unfinished trump hotel in the city 's financial district .  featuring mikhael kale , mark fast and arthur mendon ? a , it was an inspired choice of locale and designers . it also gave canadians a chance to see the works of acclaimed canadians like knitwear designer fast , who has made it big internationally but may not be well known here .  this year fullerton has upped the ante , showcasing talents such as toronto-born print designer calla years , working with olivier theyskens at nina ricci , and menswear designer todd lynn , who styles bono and mick jagger .  " there are some incredibly talented canadians out there who can match anyone globally , but most canadians might not know about them , " says fullerton .  in only her second year , fullerton has also signed a big sponsor , with p&amp;g beauty &amp; grooming coming on as a partner .  " we were really excited to come into something at the ground level and this was a really great idea , the idea that we are bringing canadian designers back home , " says carrie truman , spokesperson for p&amp;g beauty &amp; grooming . p&amp;g executives had attended the trump shows last year before making a deal this year to supply hair and makeup for models , as well as a financial commitment .  the consumer products conglomerate is the headline sponsor for montreal 's fashion week , and getting more exposure in the toronto market is part of its long-term strategy , putting it head to head with l'oreal , ( the actual , long-winded title is lg fashion week beauty by l'oreal paris . )  sponsorships will help with the bottom line . last year fullerton , working by the seat of her pants , dipped into her own pocket to pay for her event at the trump , where she received permits to use the space from the city only days before . this year she is hoping to at least break even .  " obviously it 's important to be self-sustaining . but if you 're only thinking of making money , i think you lose your voice . the machine takes over , not the art , " says fullerton .  a spokesperson for the fdcc was not available for comment when asked for its position on designers showing off-site . in the past , some designers , such as kirk pickersgill and stephen wong of greta constantine , have decided not to show at fashion week , saying they prefer to retain more control over their brand and image .  but despite showing in an alternate venue , fullerton is no outsider as the holt renfrew show at fashion week .  she got her start producing the first pink tartan fashion show for designer and friend kimberly newport-mimran . there were the inevitable glitches . a model did n't show up . she quickly got someone else to substitute . she was hooked . in demand , she became the producer of the final showdown fashion shows for the project runway canada reality series .  " i did n't know growing up you could have a job like this , it was amazing , " she says . later , she started paola fullerton inc. , which produces events and shows . she uses the money from that to help subsidize her off-fashion-week extravaganza .  the proud soccer mom ( she was about to go to her son 's first soccer game after this interview ) says she has bigger plans for the shows next season , expanding the lineup to include other projects .  " it 's really about going to the highest level that we can as an industry , creating those canadian superstars . that 's because , as canadians , we are also starting to believe in ourselves and the power of our own designs , " says fullerton .  the designers  calla haynes  * toronto-born , but living in paris . worked for olivier theyskens at nina ricci .  * line is based on concept of " relaxed luxury . "  * known for : strong print designs .  jean-pierre braganza  * grew up in montreal , lived in toronto .  * attended central saint martins college in london , u.k.  * worked for roland mouret . debuted his first men 's and women 's collection at london fashion week in 2004 .  * known for : edgy geometric prints .  todd lynn  * ottawa-born lynn grew up on ' 80s mtv and now styles rockers from bono to mick jagger , keith richards to marilyn manson .  * known for : tailored clothing meets rock ' n ' roll deconstruction .  thomas tait  * canadian-born tait graduated from central saint martins college in february 2010 . that same year he was the youngest graduate to complete the course .