Can you blame Facebook for your bad grades? Maybe.
http://www.macleans.ca/education/uniandcollege/can-you-blame-facebook-for-your-bad-grades-maybe/

It 's common to use Facebook as a scapegoat for poor academic performance . That 's because a few small studies have shown that grades are lower among students who spend more time on the social media site . The assumption has always been that more time spent on Facebook translates to less time spent studying , which leads to lower grades .  But a newer , bigger U.S. study has found that Facebook time and study time are only weakly related . It takes many extra hours of posting and chatting before grades start to slip . What 's more , although the new study found negative relationships between grades and certain types of Facebook activities , other types of activities appear to be a associated with higher grades .  Study participants were given a long list of potential Facebook activities , including tagging photos , updating their own statuses , creeping on other people 's pages , chatting , linking and more . Students rated how often they do each activity . They were also asked how much time they spend studying and The results show that sharing links and checking out what friends are up to ( also known as creeping ) are related to higher GPAs , while obsessively posting one 's own status , using the chat function and logging-on more often are related to lower GPAs .  And while more time spent on Facebook in general is correlated with less time spent preparing for class , the relationship is weak . The study 's model found that a student who spent four hours and 40 minutes more than the average student on Facebook in a week would only spend an hour and forty minutes less than the average student studying that week .  " Facebook use in and of itself is not detrimental to academic outcome , " researcher Reynol Junco of Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania told Mashable . " It depends how it 's used . "  To understand why there 's so much interest in how Facebook may effect grades , consider how much time students in the study report spending on the site -- on average 106 minutes daily .  The authors as the sample size is large ( n=1,839 ) and they controlled for intelligence by using high school grades , in addition to gender , ethnicity and socioeconomic status . The study was published in Computers in Human Behavior .  Filed under :  Advertisement  About this author  Josh Dehaas is a writer and editor focused on post-secondary education and training . He has a Master of Journalism from the University of British Columbia and a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Guelph .  Notice : Your email may not yet have been verified . Please check your email , click the link to verify your address , and then submit your comment . If you ca n't find this email , access your profile editor to re-send the confirmation email . You must have a verified email to submit a comment . Once you have done so , check again .  Sign In / Sign Up  With your existing account from  With an email account  Commenters who signed up before June 26th , 2014 will have to reregister on our new process should only take a few minutes , and you 're welcome to use the same email address .  Almost Done !  Please confirm the information below before signing up .  * #socialRegistrationForm * * **27;428;TOOLONG * * **26;457;TOOLONG * * **30;485;TOOLONG * * **29;517;TOOLONG * By clicking " Create Account " , I confirm that I have read and understood each of the website terms of service and privacy policy and that I agree to be bound by them .