Recipe - Green tomato ketchup
http://www.northernlife.ca/news/lifestyle/2011/10/13-green-tomato-ketchup-recipe.aspx

If you have some green tomatoes from your garden still kicking around , this recipe is a great way to preserve them . This yummy relish goes great on hamburgers , hotdogs or served with your favourite grilled meats . Adding the red ( or yellow ) pepper gives it colour . This recipe makes lots , so there 's usually enough to give away as gifts or to bring when invited to dinner .  Preparation Instructions : Wash tomatoes and slice . Put tomatoes , onions and pepperes in a large stainless steel bowl . Add salt and enough water to cover vegetables . Soak for three hours . Drain . Do n't rinse .  Sterilize 15-250 ml or 7-500 ml canning jars and lids by placing them in a large canning kettle or pot . Cover with water . Bring to a boil . Boil for 5 minutes . Leave jars in pot until ready to use .  Heat syrup ingredients ( except cornstarch ) in a large saucepan . Bring to a boil . Add drained vegetables and simmer until tomatoes . Add to simmering mixture to thicken .  Remove and set jars on a folded towel until cool . Test seal by pressing lid with your finger . If it stays down when pressed , jar is sealed . If it pops back up , it 's not sealed . Let jars cool . Tighten rings . Store any unsealed jars in the refrigerator and use within a month . Store sealed jars in a cool , dry place . Refrigerate after opening .  Reader 's Feedback  NorthernLife.ca may contain content submitted by readers , usually in the form of article comments . All reader comments and any opinions , advice , statements or other information contained in any messages posted or transmitted by any third party are the responsibility of the author of that message and not of NorthernLife.ca . The fact that a particular message is posted on or transmitted using this web site does not mean that NorthernLife.ca has endorsed that message in any way or verified the accuracy , completeness or usefulness of any message . We encourage visitors to NorthernLife.ca to report any top right of the comment in question . Comment Guidelines