Four myths about baby boomers
http://www.stuff.co.nz/stuff-nation/assignments/share-your-news-and-views/9802447/Four-myths-about-baby-boomers

After reading some of the comments on Stuff recently about the young generation 's perception of baby boomers I feel I have to state my case .  Myth 1 : Baby boomers were able to manage to live on one wage .  Baby boomers , of which I am certainly one , did not stay home en-masse like some believe . I spent the 70s and 80s working with hundreds of other young mums out there working to get by .  Myth 2 : Education was free .  Unless my parents lied to me , sorry , but I had to leave school at 15 simply because my parents could not afford to keep me at school . University was a dream and back then you actually had to pass your university entrance exam to get in .  Myth 3 : Housing was cheaper and there was government assistance to get your own home .  There was a scheme available that enabled families to cash in their Family Benefit ( the princely sum of $3 per week per child ) if before baby boomers were able to access it . Baby boomers ' parents were the generation to get this , as well as a 3 per cent loan for life .  Housing was and still is extremely expensive relative to income . There was no easy ride for baby boomers . If they did n't qualify for state advances loans they had to save with a bank for three years with a special housing account to prove they could afford to buy a home .  That home would be a modest three-bedroom , one-bathroom house with no garage , no fence , no drive , carpet , vinyl or drapes , and would be lucky to be 100 square metres . That would have been considered a huge home .  Myth 4 : Goods and food were much cheaper .  Rubbish . Food was expensive . Mince and sausages were the staple diet of many baby-boomer families .  A new car ? Most could only afford a secondhand car . You had to have a 50 per cent deposit to buy what were pretty rubbish cars , clothing , furniture , all goods that we now can access for relatively little money , cost a small fortune back then .  I would love to read a post from the few baby boomers out there that actually did get all the advantages the younger people seem to think we all had .  I know there are a few , but most baby boomers did nothing wrong . They went to work , they supported their families , they lived through the oil shocks of the 70s , and the restructuring and many redundancies of the 80s and 90s .  Yet the younger generation seems to think we had it all . I wish .  We had to work , we had no subsidised childcare , maternity leave ( paid or otherwise ) , no Working for Families , no interest-free student loans and we certainly did not have low interest rates on our mortgages .