Winton newlyweds' winning form
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/farming/294513/winton-newlyweds-winning-form

winton newlyweds ' winning form  march will go down as a memorable month for winton 50% sharemilkers steve henderson and tracy heale .  not only did they win the 2014 southland otago sharemilker/equity farmer of the year title , but they also got married .  mr henderson ( 27 ) and ms heale ( 28 ) met at lincoln university , where they completed agriculture degrees before starting in the dairy industry in 2007 .  both came from farming backgrounds , with mr henderson brought up on a dairy farm and ms heale on a sheep and beef farm in the north island .  it was ironic that the first people ms heale worked for were daniel and emily woolsey , who were the runners-up in the sharemilker/equity competition .  at that time , mr and mrs woolsey - now lower-order sharemilkers in gore - had won the national farm manager of the year title .  ms heale and mr henderson later went contract milking and they were now 50% sharemilking 320 cows for adrian and bev simmonds at winton no regrets about joining the dairy industry , saying as long as she was working outdoors and among the cows , there was no better job . their ultimate goal was farm ownership .  it was the second time the couple had entered the new zealand dairy industry awards and it had been a valuable exercise , ms heale said .  ' ' it makes you look at your business and it turns it inside out , really , ' ' she said .  the couple were now looking forward to the national final in auckland on may 9 . they hoped to do the region proud and be the first southland otago winners of the national title .  the regions had been combined for the first time this year .  it has been an extremely busy time for the couple , who are also very involved with their community as members of the winton volunteer fire brigade , waitane young farmers and the southern field days committee .  ' ' we 've have n't really made it easy for ourselves this last month , ' ' full-on ' ' time prior to and also during the field days and , two days after they ended , they had their regional finals judging .  they were married last friday on the farm and will host a field day on the property on thursday .  a honeymoon was on hold until winter ' ' when things have calmed down a wee bit ' ' , she said .  it was a clean sweep for southland entrants , with riversdale farm manager jared crawford winning the farm manager title and winton 2ic josh lavender winning dairy trainee of the year .  former professional rugby player kevin o'neill and his wife , sara , won the canterbury north otago sharemilker/equity farmer of the year title .  the couple oversee an 1190-cow herd on a 340ha farm at waiau . phillip columbus , from oxford , won the farm manager title , while isaac vujcich , also from oxford , won the dairy trainee title .