Two girls from Wellington chosen to play title role in Annie on stage
http://wellington.scoop.co.nz/?p=65359

Six hundred and thirty girls from throughout New Zealand auditioned to be Annie in a touring production from the UK . Three of them have been named to share the leading role -- Amelia Walshe , 11 , and Ilena Shadbolt , 12 , both of Wellington , and Zoe Fifield , 13 of Auckland .  The three will alternate the role for seasons in Wellington ( from Tuesday 23 May ) and Auckland ( from Friday 13 June ) .  A further 48 girls have been chosen to play the roles of orphans . They will be divided into two 24-strong troupes -- one for the Wellington season and the other for the Auckland season . These troupes represent Wellington , Auckland , Christchurch , New Plymouth , Hamilton , and Tauranga .  Rehearsals will start this week under the direction of UK-based choreographer and associate director Jonny Bowles .  " The girls who auditioned have been absolutely wonderful and so talented , " says Mr Bowles . " But in particular , our three girls chosen to play Annie have absolutely an international cast that includes Hi De Hi ! ' s Su Pollard and David McAlister , a veteran of the West End stage and TV dramas .  While the girls get cracking with rehearsals in New Zealand , principal cast -- also including MiG Ayesa ( Rock Star : INXS , We Will Rock You ) , Frazer Hines ( Emmerdale , Dr Who ) , Sue Hodge ( ' Allo ' Allo ) and John D Collins ( ' Allo ' Allo ) -- will rehearse their roles simultaneously on the other side of the world until the full cast unites in New Zealand in May .  From its Broadway beginnings to the classic film musical , the heart-warming rags-to-riches story of plucky young Annie 's journey from the hard-knock New York orphanage to the luxurious home of billionaire businessman Oliver Warbucks , is a tale that has been told all over the world for decades .  The toe-tapping score for ANNIE features some of the best-known songs in musical theatre , including " Maybe , " " It 's the Hard Knock Life , " " " Easy Street , " " I Do n't Need Anything But You " and the eternal anthem of optimism , " Tomorrow " .  More than 50 million people of all ages have been delighted by three Broadway runs of ANNIE , two Australian tours , two West End stints , five National US companies , two hit movies ( 1982 and 1999 ) with a third due for release in December , and dozens of international productions , playing seasons all over the world .  This UK production of ANNIE has been seen by over 3 million people during its tour to every major city in Great Britain , and last year played sell-out seasons in Hong Kong and Singapore .  Inspired by Harold Gray 's famous comic strip Little Orphan Annie which first ran in the New York News in 1924 , ANNIE is set in Depression Era New York City at a time when the economy looked bleak , government seemed ineffective and the average citizen was desperate and frustrated . With its hopeful message and unwavering belief in a better tomorrow , 2377 performances before closing in 1983 . The show won seven Tony Awards , including Best Musical , Best Book ( Thomas Meehan ) , Best Original Score ( music by Charles Strouse and lyrics by Martin Charnin ) , and Best Choreography .  Now , 37 years after its Broadway debut , the timeless tale of Little Orphan Annie will be coming to New Zealand , giving a whole new generation the chance to experience a classic musical about never giving up hope . ANNIE is a delightful theatrical experience for any age .