David v Goliath battle
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/small-business/9808346/David-v-Goliath-battle

thousands of christchurch residents have signed a petition to save their popular suburban dairy from being forced out by a supermarket giant .  about 2650 people signed the " we want willy dairy in new halswell shopping centre " petition , after foodstuffs confirmed it would not offer the dairy a space in its rebuilt shopping complex .  owner keun mook yook , also known as william , has run the dairy from the centre for 13 years .  " lots of people want me to stay and lots of people are angry about the whole thing , " yook said .  foodstuffs said the new world supermarket next door would " fill the void " .  the shopping complex was damaged in canterbury 's earthquakes and it was deemed uneconomical to repair by owners foodstuffs and its insurers . foodstuffs offered leaseholders space in its rebuilt centre , but told yook there would be no room for his shop .  a letter from foodstuffs property manager clayton young , dated may 13 , 2013 , stated the company did " the neighbouring new world supermarket would " fill this void " .  " foodstuffs ' other shopping malls and many similar malls do not have dairies as they are more regularly seen . . . where there is no supermarket presence , " young wrote .  another letter , dated january , said the company 's demolition plans would be under way soon and yook 's shop would have to be vacant by the end of this month .  work to rebuild the complex is due to start in two to three weeks and will take 15 to 18 months to complete .  " it is unfair with other tenants that they have all been offered space in the redeveloped shopping centre without any issues at all . my dairy appears to have been singled out for exclusion . "  halswell resident lyn mcgill said willy dairy was a " pivotal " part of the community and could not be replaced by a supermarket .  " it 's totally unfair , not just to william , but to the community . it 's a village they 've got out at eastgate . we do n't need all that , we want the dairy . "  local mps amy adams and megan woods and city councillor jimmy chen wrote to foodstuffs urging it to reconsider its decision , but had no success .  woods said the many residents found it hard to understand foodstuffs ' decision when the dairy and the supermarket had co-existed for more than 12 years .  " mr yook is well respected and supported within the local halswell community and would be a sad loss . "