Confident wealthy plan a spend-up
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/money/10077594/Confident-wealthy-plan-a-spend-up

well-off kiwis are planning to open their wallets wider , which spells good news for the economy .  credit card company visa included new zealand for the first time in its annual survey of the spending habits and attitudes of the affluent in the asia-pacific region . the survey is of people who have monthly household incomes high enough to qualify them for a platinum credit card - that 's $120,000 or more a year .  one in three of the kiwis surveyed said they planned to lift their discretionary spending in the coming year , including spending more on travel . that increased confidence is shared by the wealthy in australia and japan but is lower than in other countries in the survey of around 5100 credit-card holders .  visa country manager caroline ada said the spending plans still seemed cautious , given 62 per cent also said they expected the economy to improve in the coming year , while 18 per cent thought it would plateau and the remainder that it would worsen . some 60 per cent also expected their own majority of affluent kiwis expect incomes to increase in tandem with improvements to the economy . however , many believe the anticipated increase in the inflation rate may have an impact on discretionary spending , " ada said .  half said they were planning to increase household saving .  the visa survey gives a small insight into the lifestyle of the rich , with their spending for a year likely to include one or two luxury weekend getaways , while 70 per cent went on a family holiday , half overseas . most of the women bought at least one designer handbag , a couple of pairs of designer shoes and some jewellery . in the past year , a quarter treated themselves to a new car . roughly one in eight bought themselves a designer watch . while they 're also likely to have several meals out at fine dining restaurants during the year , well-off kiwis are much more likely to be homebodies than their overseas peers , with the lowest spend on out-of-home activities compared to those surveyed overseas .  new zealand had the highest on groceries as a proportion of total monthly spend .  the affluent tend to allow themselves a bit of pocket money to spend on " me " things - an average of $540 a month . but they tend not to be big savers and 70 per cent saved for discretionary spending . well-off new zealanders spent more than 70 per cent of their household incomes , which was the highest among all the countries .  the survey found kiwis prized work-life balance highly , giving that a higher emphasis than improving their finances .  other priorities included spending more time with the family and staying fit ( 91 per cent ) , saving more money ( 90 per cent ) , planning for their retirement ( 82 per cent ) , increasing personal income ( 76 per cent ) , and making sure the kids get the best education ( 73 per cent ) . buying more things ranked as a priority with only just over a third .  73 per cent of the kiwis surveyed donated regularly to charity .  fine living  a spending .  these are the things they plan to increase their spending on : family holiday 38%