Hopeful step on road to riches
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/money/10076551/Hopeful-step-on-road-to-riches

what exactly does a $5995 foreign exchange trading course buy you ? in the second of a three-part series , richard meadows receives a rude reality check on his journey to becoming a currency trader extraordinaire .  the crammed confines of an economy-class flight , with no drinks trolley for comfort , make a perfect breeding ground for fantasies of fame and fortune .  greg secker certainly does n't fly economy . for those who missed the first instalment , he 's the multimillionaire founder of knowledge to action , a controversial uk-based company drumming up business for its forex training courses down under .  when i challenged his eyebrow-raising sales pitch earlier this year ( sample quote : " if i want you to become a millionaire , it 's very easy " ) , secker personally offered me a place on his course .  while the venue has changed from auckland to australia - hence the flight - my mission remains the same .  i 'm headed to knowledge to action 's headquarters , in the commercial district of north beneath all the sizzle .  my eight fellow " delegates " have each shelled out the better part of $6000 on the premise that they , too , can bring their financial fantasies to life .  statistically speaking , four of us will have our dreams snuffed out .  when i spoke with secker in february , he said roughly half of knowledge to action 's course graduates will never become part or fulltime traders . why not ?  " they do n't even start . it 's daunting . it 's not about whether the systems work , or whether they do n't , " he says .  " they do n't believe they can do it , so they do n't do it . their brain focuses on the fear of loss . "  that 's one explanation . or it could be that half the attendees decide to cut their losses and chalk it up to experience .  this particular group is a pleasant and intelligent bunch , but most have no experience with financial markets .  it 's hard sessions will transform them from laypeople into hotshot traders .  secker agrees two days is nowhere near long enough to get one 's head around the drivers of the currency market .  " that 's a five-year london school of economics degree programme , is n't it ? " he says .  " this is , literally : how do you place trading strategies in the live market ; how do you identify it 's a false signal . "