ABYC Memorial Day Regatta - Day 1
http://www.sail-world.com/ABYC-Memorial-Day-Regatta----Day-1/122516

ABYC Memorial Day Regatta - Day 1  Some said that Alamitos Bay Yacht Club 's annual Memorial Day Regatta this weekend looked like a preview of the Laser class North American Championships coming up June 12-15 .  Pray that did n't mean the weather conditions .  There were more Lasers ( 26 ) and Laser Radials ( 29 ) entered than all of the other classes combined , all struggling around the outside and inside race courses in uncustomary gasps of air from 1.5 to 4.5 knots from the south and southwest . It did n't stop the racing , but it made for a long afternoon .  Erik Bowers , a Laser sailor from Minnetonka , Minn. , who leads his fleet with a first , fourth and third after three of seven scheduled races , said that after he won the first race ' I looked at my watch . I finished in 68 minutes ... the longest race I 've done in awhile . '  But he was n't complaining that the race---twice around a windward-leeward course for a after only one of two laps .  ' It was perfect for me , ' Bowers said . ' Chris Barnard was leading and I passed him on the second downwind leg . '  That led to first place , followed by a fourth and a third for eight points---two ahead of ABYC 's versatile veteran , Chris Raab ( six - three - one , ten ) , and a three-way tie at 12 among Barnard , Richard Didham of San Diego YC and Andrew Lewis of the Trinidad and Tabago Sailing Association .  Bowers , 24 , is the third-ranking Laser sailor with the US Sailing Team Sperry Top-Sider Olympic program , behind Charlie Buckingham , who is n't competing , and Barnard---all training to represent the U.S. at Rio de Janeiro , Brazil in 2016 .  At six - three and 180 pounds , he is taller than most rivals but notes , ' I get a lot of leverage . '  He also has heard the reports about Rio 's unsavory sailing conditions , which would make even Long Beach 's atypical ' I was there in January , ' he said . ' Some of the ranting on it is hyperbole . The water is dirty , but if you do n't get soaked and you do n't have any sore spots that might get infected you 'd probably be OK . It does n't smell good , but when it 's time to race no one is going to boycott it . '  Kiteboards were scheduled to race only on Saturday but never got airborne .  The event is the first of ABYC 's traditional holiday regattas for small boats from San Diego to San Francisco and beyond , to be followed by the Fourth of July Regatta in early summer , preceding the Labor Day Regatta in September and Turkey Day for Thanksgiving in November .  Racing is scheduled to start at noon Sunday , conditions permitting . The larger classes are racing outside in Long Beach Harbor ; the dinghies are racing inside on Alamitos Bay .  Jonathan Cressy of Balboa YC goes for pin end of the start line - ABYC Memorial Day Regatta @