Harris vows to return to racing
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/news/10470506/Banged-up-Harris-vows-to-return-to-racing

banged-up harris vows to return to racing  champion rider ca n't wait to get back on his bike  matt rilkoff  last updated 05:00 08/09/2014  fairfax nz  pin pulled : seven years after a horrific motorcycle crash at the isle of man 1000cc superstock tt , new plymouth man shaun harris had the metal pins and screws that held his broken legs together removed at new plymouth base hospital in the weekend .  relevant offers  crashing his motorcycle cost shaun harris seven years of his life , his home , his business and nearly his family .  he ca n't wait to ride again .  in 2007 the champion new plymouth rider was as good as dead after a horrific crash while travelling at more than 230kph on the third and final lap of the 37-mile isle of man 1000cc superstock tt race circuit .  " my legs were smashed to pieces . my pelvis was in nine pieces . my left femur was in three pieces . i do n't remember the details to be honest , close to a month , the video footage of the crash was never released in the belief that harris would soon die from his injuries .  but he pulled through and surgeons were able to painstakingly piece his bones back together with steel pins and plates , some of which were only removed at taranaki base hospital in the weekend , more than seven years after the crash .  for much of that time harris said he has been unable to work and the brain injury he suffered made him a horror to live with and a difficult friend . his time on acc has also come at a financial cost . the bike mechanic has had to sell his house and his bike repair business has folded .  yet even while still on his hospital bed harris is adamant he will return to the isle of man and once more conquer the course he has twice been champion of .  " put it this way . that 's my goal . everything in life needs a goal . if you do n't have any goals you race , i am going anyway . " as well as racing again , harris hopes to share his love of racing and bikes with the younger generation .  " this is what i really want to do . i want to use my motorcycle experience to help troubled youth . give them some experience around adults .  " maybe , you never know , get someone out of a bad situation and encourage them to do something . "