Heartland Bank becomes one of the first banks globally to buy into a ...
http://www.interest.co.nz/business/71843/heartland-bank-becomes-one-first-banks-globally-buy-peer-peer-lender-10-stake

you are here  heartland bank becomes one of the first banks globally to buy into a peer-to-peer lender with a 10% stake in harmoney  heartland bank ceo jeff greenslade says the bank will lend a " meaningful " amount of money through harmoney 's internet platform having taken a 10% shareholding for an undisclosed sum in new zealand 's first licenced peer-to-peer lender .  peer-to-peer ( p2p ) lending is where an online service provider acts as an intermediary matching borrowers and lenders , receiving fees for doing so .  greenslade told interest.co.nz the harmoney deal , announced via a brief statement light on detail on monday , is a combination of a strategic move into p2p and a way for heartland to facilitate lending growth . both harmoney 's technology and the potential to reach customers that might not otherwise be available to heartland are attractions , greenslade said .  " the technology is something we 're quite keen to get closer to in terms of what it is in the market , but also in terms of where else it , " greenslade said .  " it obviously gets a reach into customers that may not otherwise be available to us . particularly i guess younger people who are more internet focused , and that 's increasingly their most comfortable way of communicating with their service providers , " added greenslade .  the sum heartland would lend via harmoney is a " meaningful " one , greenslade said .  " it 's a meaningful amount of money to get them going . that money 's lending through the platform , it 's not to harmoney , ( but rather ) into the various risk buckets as borrowers come in . "  ' a world first '  the deal sees heartland become harmoney 's second biggest shareholder after founder and ceo neil roberts , who is harmoney 's majority owner . although harmoney , which received its licence from the financial markets authority in julyis already live , it does n't officially launch until wednesday .  roberts therefore claims the heartland deal as a world first .  " it 's a world first , in line up funding before launch , " roberts said .  he said heartland had conducted due diligence ahead of the deal , and there was nothing preventing harmoney from doing a similar deal with another bank or financial services provider .  " i 'm very comfortable with where we 're at . we 've seen very strong demand on both sides ( borrowing and lending ) , " said roberts .  " we 've got money to lend and we 're going to have a vibrant marketplace . "  heartland joins a select group of banks globally that has bought into a p2p lender that includes westpac in australia and barclays in south africa . although p2p lending is new to new zealand , it has been around for several years , notably in the likes of britain and the united states , overseas . see more on this here .  formed through the merger of marac finance , cbs canterbury and the southern cross building society in 2010-11 , heartland targets niche markets incorporating small and medium sized businesses , the rural sector and the of rural lender pgg wrightson finance in august 2011 , and obtained bank registration from the reserve bank in december 2012 .  heartland new zealand limited ( heartland ) ( nzx : hnz ) advises that it has taken an approximately 10% shareholding in harmoney corp limited ( harmoney ) , new zealand 's only licensed peer-to-peer lending platform .  in conjunction with this , heartland bank limited is providing a funding line to enable lending to a range of individual borrowers using the platform .  heartland 's strategy is to occupy leading positions in niche markets through specialist offerings which are different to traditional banks . likewise , harmoney operates a lending model that challenges those being offered by mainstream banks - a model that can change the way people borrow and invest .  the shareholding in harmoney complements heartland 's strategy and provides a potentially valuable channel to attract customers in the household sector that current distribution networks may not reach .  the funding line will help provide initial momentum , complementing the investments made by retail investors . harmoney and heartland also intend exists to create high value products for new zealand consumer and business customers in new zealand .  we welcome your help to improve our coverage of this issue . any examples or experiences to relate ? any links to other news , data or research to shed more light on this ? any insight or views on what might happen next or what should happen next ? any errors to correct ?  we welcome your comments below . if you are not already registered , please register to comment or click on the " register " link below a comment .  remember we welcome robust , respectful and insightful debate . we do n't welcome abusive or defamatory comments and will de-register those repeatedly making such comments . our current comment policy is here .  4 comments  would this suggest that harmoney may be struggling to get the number of investors that they thought ? i also wonder if heartland wo n't take a larger shareholding down the track . maybe harmoney will take the place of mtf .  big savings on  big currency indication purposes only , and may or may not be rates offered by any institution . we source this data from publicly available sources , at the time shown above . rates change often , and different institutions are competitive in different currencies . contact institutions directly for actual quotes . the comparisons on this tool are controlled by interest.co.nz.