pilot ordered to pay compensation
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/national/319118/pilot-ordered-pay-compensation

Car crash pilot ordered to pay compensation  A pilot who ran a stop sign during a Lord of the Rings sightseeing road-trip and caused a car crash that seriously injured colleagues has today been ordered by a judge to pay $10,000 compensation to both victims .  At his sentencing in Christchurch District Court today he was also banned from driving for 18 months .  He was with four other airline colleagues in a rental car when he ran a stop sign and hit a four wheel-drive towing a horse float at an intersection near Rolleston , south of Christchurch , last Wednesday morning .  Singapore Airlines chief steward Chew Weng Wai was a backseat passenger and not wearing a seatbelt when Wu failed to notice a stop sign .  He managed to slow down to about 40-50km/h .  But he later told police he did n't want to make an abrupt stop , because it would 've been " uncomfortable " for his passengers .  The horse float , which had been travelling at 80km/h , braked heavily but was side took the brunt of the impact and he had to be cut free of the wreck .  He suffered bleeding and swelling to the brain as well as significant internal bleeding .  Steward Vanessa Leonara Savio Coelho , seated in the middle of the back seat , also was n't wearing a seatbelt .  She had to be cut free by rescuers and underwent surgery the following day for injuries that included a fractured arm and shattered pelvis as well as spleen and bladder injuries .  Today at Christchurch District Court , defence counsel Kerry Cook described the incident as a " tragic unintended accident with tragic consequences " .  In what Mr Cook said was " a cruel twist " , Wu was n't meant to drive that day but was the only one up when the rental car arrived .  He was driving on an unfamiliar road , taking directions with others from the GPS system , and had not been speeding , Mr Cook said .  Wu saw the stop sign " very late " and " made a split .  The injuries to those not wearing seatbelts were " horrendous " , Mr Cook accepted .  Judge Stephen O'Driscoll noted that it was " perhaps ironic " that there was not injury to those wearing seatbelts .  He said that it would have been " prudent " for Wu as the driver to ensure his passengers were all wearing seatbelts .  But as Mr Cook outlined , there is no legal responsibility on the driver of a car to ensure passengers aged 15 and over to wear seatbelts .  Mr Wu , largely uninjured , tried to help his workmates at the scene and immediately acknowledged his wrongdoing .  He is genuinely remorseful , Mr Cook said , and has apologised face-to-face to Ms Coelho and Mr Chew 's wife who " do n't hold any grudges against him " .  " He is significantly upset and distraught at the harm . He has a significant burden to carry , " Mr Cook said .  Before today , Wu had already paid into the court trust account $15,000 for emotional harm reparation would n't fix all the harm he had caused , he hoped it would help in some small way .  It was fortunate there were no fatalities , said Judge O'Driscoll .  There had initially been " real concerns " as to whether Mr Chew would live , he said .  The judge had now seen a medical report which indicated he has suffered serious injuries that included a mild head injury .  He had 6-12 months of rehabilitation ahead of him , the court heard .  A victim impact statement from Mr Chew 's wife said he had undergone surgery and would require further surgery , with his recovery in the future still being " unknown " .  " It is obvious that he will face a very long recovery , " Judge O'Driscoll said .  Ms Coelho would " bear scars for a long time " and was unsure over the future of her job , the judge said .