Andrew Little confirms Labour leadership bid
http://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/10597711/Andrew-Little-confirms-Labour-leadership-bid

" I have decided to contest the Labour Party leadership , " Little said today .  " There are three immediate issues to deal with -- creating greater cohesion across the caucus , rebuilding the relationship between caucus and the party and , most importantly , getting the process under way to listen to the voters who have abandoned us .  " I have demonstrated skills from my time as a union secretary and former party president in challenging the status quo and lifting organisational performance . "  Former leader David Cunliffe and Grant Robertson are also in the leadership race .  Little signalled a major shift in direction if he won the leadership , including the likely ditching of unpopular policies such as raising the pension age .  At a press conference today , the former union boss also signalled a rethink of a capital gains tax , power reforms and free doctor visits for over-65s .  Little said the policies were raised constantly on the campaign trail as either scary or unaffordable .  Most Kiwis were pragmatic enough be true " , he said .  His approach could pitch him against finance spokesman and acting leader David Parker , who advocated strongly for Labour 's policy mix .  Little said the caucus needed a more " cohesive style " and it had operated too much as 34 individuals .  " We do n't want to operate as 32 individuals this term , " he said .  The big task was reaching out to those voters who had left Labour and " just could n't " vote for the party this year .  " The feedback I had during the campaign was a lot of big policies that I think people were a bit scared by , a bit of confusion about coalitions and what coalitions might look like , and in the end the total proposition was just a bit too scary for people and they went elsewhere , " he said .  As far as coalitions were concerned , he thought Labour should " reach out " , as it did in 1999 to the Alliance , to give voters a better  " We have to be clear where we would go with coalition partners , " he said .  " I think the electorate wants that , and that 's a discussion and a debate we need to have ... to get ourselves ready for 2017 . "  On policy , he said he had supported the manifesto , but the feedback from voters was that some policies were not popular .  " We all have to be honest and bold enough to say there are some things we have been doing that clearly have n't been the right thing to do , " he said .  Among those were policies like increasing the pension age and a capital gains tax that Parker had advocated .  " I think David Parker is big enough and bold enough to be part of that process that asks questions about it and challenges it , " Little said .  He would not commit to any portfolios for individuals , but he would look for a mix of experience , ability and up-and-coming talent .  He would not had not asked for votes , but had gauged support .  As a list MP who lost twice to National backbencher Jonathan Young in New Plymouth , he had given his leadership bid some thought .  " I 've beaten myself up for a period about it , " he said .  " I 've got past that and I 've had to make a choice . Do I define myself by that or do I look to the skills and experience I came into Parliament with ?  " I 've decided to back myself and the skills and experience I know I have and that are crucial for Labour at this time . "  He would not rule out another tilt at the New Plymouth seat , " mad as that might seem to some " .  On a head-to-head clash with Prime Minister John Key , he said Key was popular but was a " transactional politician " dealing with the best political solution to day-to-day problems .  There was doubt over whether he was a leader .  " He can think more and more New Zealanders are looking for where is our long-term future security , and that 's the space that Labour needs to be in , " Little said .  Key had not set out where New Zealand should be in 20 or 30 years and the society it should be .  Little said rivals Robertson and Cunliffe were good people , but he represented a clean break and came with fresher ideas , and experience the others did not have .  He questioned why Labour had 120 policies in 2014 , indicating a smaller set of policies would be easier for voters to digest and understand , with a greater emphasis on Labour 's values .  " We want to chunk it down to things that we know people can understand and get hold of quicker . "  He characterised himself as " a stable , steady head on a stable , steady set of shoulders " , but he was also a good listener .