Memorial will soon be more accessible
http://www.odt.co.nz/regions/west-coast/319047/memorial-will-soon-be-more-accessible

Memorial will soon be more accessible  Clutha district councillor Jeff McKenzie and John Herbert of the West Otago Community Board , pictured at the Heriot War Memorial , say it is important for people to be able to approach war memorials . Photo by Hamish MacLean .  Anzac Day could become more meaningful for the younger generation from next year , with funding approved to move Heriot 's war memorial and the project given the go-ahead .  When the Heriot and Districts Community Centre was opened in August 1989 , Anzac Day ceremonies were shifted from the memorial to the centre , partly due to access difficulties at the monument .  So for 25 years , those laying wreaths on Anzac Day at Heriot have done so on a table in the community hall instead of at the war memorial .  But that is set to change .  The West Otago Community Board has approved the funds to move Heriot 's war memorial from its current location at the corner of Roxburgh St and Mathesons Corner Rd to the Heriot and in Anzac Day ceremonies once again .  ' ' There 's something missing when you 've got kids laying wreaths on a table , ' ' the community board 's John Herbert said .  Mr Herbert said the memorial would play a more prominent role in the Otago settlement 's ceremony after the shift .  Discussions on the relocation of the Heriot memorial began after roading changes in the town about five years ago altered the landscaping of the ground around where the monument sits and limited parking at the site .  Cr Jeff McKenzie , of Heriot , said he was pleased the monument would be more accessible .  The community board approved a budget of $5000 to dismantle the seven-piece granite obelisk and shift it .  At a public meeting in September the Heriot community asked that this be done before Anzac Day 2015 .  With funding available from New Zealand 's First World War Centenary programme , all 30 of Clutha 's war memorials were examined for maintenance costs this year .  In the Clutha District Council 's annual plan but Mayor Bryan Cadogan has said he expected cost overruns .