Leading the way
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/lifestyle/10633013/Leading-the-way

leading the way  transforming the lives of those less able  the taranaki disability centre is set to celebrate their 30th anniversary . from left general manager brian erikson &amp; chairperson kirsty linnell .  relevant offers  this week a special celebration will mark a major milestone in the life of an institution that has played a significant role in growing recognition of this country 's once forgotten tribe - the disabled .  it will be 30 years since a small group of organisations representing the disabled decided to co-operate in a bid to get a better deal for their members .  they moved into an old house in young st , new plymouth , and started the organisation that became the taranaki disabilities information centre ( tdic ) .  today that house is regional headquarters to eight organisations and tdic has more than 60 affiliates and is transforming life and attitudes for its members .  in fact , such are its successes that taranaki is leading the country in its care and recognition of the special needs of the disabled the centre have won awards for their work in pushing strategies for needy members .  his greatest coup is in forging a disparate group of organisations into the taranaki disability strategy coalition . in this , the region 's four local authorities , health board , appropriate government departments and disability organisations meet regularly to devise and implement an action plan to improve the lives of those with physical and mental handicaps .  out of this has grown major developments in making the province more accessible in many respects .  members work together separately and collectively to make life more inclusive for those they support .  a new bus service between hawera and new plymouth that runs both ways three times a day is a major achievement , but there are many others .  the disability action group at taranaki base hospital had a major contribution to making the new ward block there more accessible . it continues to improve on these significant achievements under the chairmanship of centre trust member , john major .  tdic adds to these achievements with an accredited training scheme to live with sensory or mobility loss .  they wear blindfolds , ear muffs , and weights to simulate a stroke or are put in a wheelchair and made to travel familiar routes .  trainees find the experience invaluable as well as being a fun way to learn lessons that hours reading or watching could not achieve .  " it is a matter of becoming aware through personal experience of many little things that make getting around so difficult for the disabled , " says brian . his latest extension of this training is to incorporate it in a project to make taranaki retail shops more accessible .  a tdic survey has shown as many as a quarter of stores are not disabled friendly . some are totally inaccessible .  the centre offers a free inspection and recommendations for improvements . owners are also offered a place on the disability awareness training course .  " it is a win-win situation . the disabled get better access and the retailers encourage an extra one in four into their shops , " says brian .  he , with costs covered from the ministry of social development , making a difference fund .  so far it has been welcomed by most retailers and the chamber of commerce .  brian has plans to present an award to the most disabled friendly shop once inspections are completed .  motivation for these developments have not just been good ideas from brian and his board .  he spent more than a year in research , visiting towns and hamlets across the province talking to disabled people and finding their ideas for improvements .  another request he has been able to make happen is a disaster kit prepared by the red cross , the centre and civil defence that provides advice to the less mobile on how to prepare and act during an emergency .  while all this has been going on the centre has continued its core operation providing advice to the disabled and educating the public on disability issues .  it has also expanded operations by offering equipment to assist the handicapped through sales or a hire scheme .  " technology has made major beneficiaries of this change , " he says .  if the centre can not provide equipment it can tell people where to go for assistance .  he and staff monitor disabled- related changes by local authorities and health providers and co-ordinate the activities of affiliates .  it also initiates training and information activities  centre trust chairwoman , kirsty linnell , says one secret of the organisation 's success has been its ability to co-operate and co-ordinate with others .  one of its most successful partnerships has been with new plymouth district council . as with other councils , the centre offers inspection and advice services using the building code and be accessible measures . the district council also played a major role in using brian 's notes to draft the taranaki disability strategy and its subsequent annual report that contains a full list of achievements .  centre deputy chairman and former all black , john major , has been involved with the centre since he began mowing its lawns in the early 1990s . these days he is confined to a wheelchair by multiple ramps and public toilets are accessible .  he is also on a number of other committees and boards where his knowledge of the needs of the disabled is invaluable .  to find the beginning of this history go back more than 30 years , when jack nicholls ' family was running a pavilion on the west end of new plymouth 's popular ngamotu beach and living in the family home in young st.  he conceived the idea of a telephone answering service manned by disabled telephonist . additions were made to the house , with an office and hall added to the front .  on the death of this polio sufferer the property was left to parafed in new plymouth .  parafed was not well equipped to manage the building and asked the barrett homes trust to assist with building administration but became one of the first tenants . the parafed executive were aware of a disabled service centre in hamilton and after closer examination decided to emulate this operation and the idea of the taranaki disabled living centre was born .  this development is have worked together .  barrett homes was an idea promoted by former mayor denny sutherland , who became concerned at a lack of facilities for accidents victims and others with high care needs .  with aid of a board that included former architect , george richardson , and newspaper manager , rash avery , six specially designed units were built in barrett st.  today 's trust chairman brian wray , says after taking over the centre it was improved and the number of tenants increased to operate along with the units .  a $187,000 grant from the tsb community trust in the mid- 2000s removed any debts remaining on the centre and it was handed over to the tdic to manage .  denny is not the only notable person involved with the centre . former mp and mayor harry duynhoven has a long record and is now patron . recent new plymouth mayor peter tennent is another supporter .  the grant went to building extra units and barrett trust now has 15 of these in inglewood and new plymouth . meanwhile parafed formed the taranaki the answer service continued for several years until overcome by technology , the centre operated from the hall and continued to grow .  an early and much respected manager , ramona rongonui , says things were pretty primitive in the early years .  " we operated out of the hall where the board room is now , " she says .  " the answering service was in the area the manager 's office is now . we provided information for the disabled and public . public education was an important part of our work . we did a lot of public speaking . " she says that in recent years things have gone ahead in leaps and bounds . brian has done a wonderful job . "  his association with the centre began as a tenant working as a contractor for acc doing assessments of disabled people .  he took over from ramona some 20 years ago and has worked tirelessly since .  all this will be celebrated with a function in the new plymouth district council chambers on wednesday , october 22 . an the centre , with all tenants opening their rooms to show the public what they do . this will run from 10am to 2pm with the function at the council starting at 2.30pm.