Storm over 'piss-take' liquor logo
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/10633337/Storm-over-piss-take-liquor-logo

Storm over ' piss-take ' liquor logo  Relevant offers  Liquorland 's new slogan " all the help you need " has been labelled " a piss-take " and " cynical " by addiction support agencies concerned at the company 's choice of wording .  Recently Liquorland changed its slogan from " here 's to you " to " all the help you need " .  The new slogan has drawn intense criticism from a range of support agencies questioning Liquorland 's intentions behind the slogan .  Liquorland chief executive Rob Gibson said the " help " in the slogan refers to its employees ' commitment to service and knowledge of brands it stocks .  Its previous slogan " here 's to you " felt very masculine and may have alienated some customers , he said . Liquorland dropped the old slogan and adopted " all the help you need " following guidance from its advertising agency .  Alcohol Drug Association of New Zealand chief executive Paul Rout said Liquorland 's use of the word " help " in the new to alcohol-related problems in New Zealand is the easy of access to cheap liquor through off-licence retailers .  " They should stop using that word because I think it 's a contradiction in terms of what they actually do , " Rout said .  The slogan features the kind of wording typically used by support agencies trying to help problem drinkers and minimise the alcohol harm , he said .  " It 's buying into a language and a concept that people warm to but in fact is n't genuine or real . "  The liquor industry has long promoted alcohol as something which can " help " people , whether it be in relation to relaxing , being socially popular or having improved sexual prowess , he said .  " Of course , we never hear the downsides . "  New Zealand Drug Foundation executive director Ross Bell said it was " a cynical slogan which suggests that booze is all the help you need " .  " It 's a bit of a piss-take I reckon , " Bell said .  and it undermined the work of alcohol addiction support services , he said .  " It 's almost saying , keep drinking . It 's a very strange choice of phrase . "  People with alcohol dependency find it challenging being exposed to advertising and messaging associated with alcohol , he said .  " Their slogan does send the message that alcohol is actually the answer to all of your problems .  " Liquorland needs to probably rethink their slogan in light of that . "  Alcohol Action New Zealand medical spokesman Professor Doug Sellman said the slogan gave the impression Liquorland was attempting to solve a customer 's problem .  " I suspect they are focusing on the lack of intoxication being the problem , " Sellman said . " This sounds like alcoholism to me . "  Alcohol marketing usually promoted alcohol consumption without any mention about its downside , he said .  " Marketing is very clever and it is maintaining the heavy drinking culture . That 's what 's really insidious about the promotion of alcohol . "  an unusual choice and not a phrase people would immediately associate with a liquor outlet .  The saying " all the help you need " would usually be associated with a place that provides a helpful service , he said .  " If you need help for something you would n't think ' I 'll go to my local liquor store ' , " Thirkell said .  If Liquorland built a communication campaign explaining the slogan it would make the message more clear , he said . While the slogan was not outrageous , it would be contentious considering the concern around alcohol use in society , he said .  " I do n't think it 's shocking or a travesty . "  Gibson said Liquorland appreciated the alcohol support agencies ' point of view and Liquorland was committed to meeting and exceeding its responsibilities as a liquor retailer .