Face Value: Al Brown on money matters
http://www.stuff.co.nz/business/money/10629718/Face-Value-Al-Brown-on-money-matters

al brown grew up on a wairarapa farm where his family grew their own vegetables , killed their own meat and were a long way from any shops .  spending was a novelty . brown still recalls the childhood thrill of being given five cents a day to buy a bag of lollies when on holiday at castlepoint .  school holiday jobs revolved around the farm . as the only son , brown was expected to take over the farm , but after one summer as a shepherd , he knew it was n't the life for him .  he worked in a food court , then in kitchens on his oe through europe and finally put himself through one of the best culinary schools in the us .  " i loved kitchens . everyone had a knife , there was fire everywhere , there was yelling and screaming . . . and beautiful plates of food came out the door . i found it quite mesmerising and very stimulating . "  coming back to new zealand , he set up his . the pair became even more well-known after getting their own bush travel and cooking show , hunger for the wild .  these days brown is a brand , running the depot eatery in auckland , writing cook books , presenting television shows , and distributing food products .  what was your first paid job ?  my first job from an very early age was on the back of a horse at lambing time riding around the farm collecting dead lambs and putting them out at the gate each day , and getting a dollar a lamb for the pelts . my next paying job was while i was still at school , but in the summer holidays working in shearing gangs as an assistant presser .  how did cooking enter the picture ?  we were n't a particularly foodie family as such , but i do n't think anyone was back then , because there was n't that proliferation of restaurants or media around food or food magazines or cookbooks .  but i look back with fondness at home baking and , as a much . mum would make a lot of chutneys and relishes , we 'd bottle beetroot and make tomato sauce at the height of summer .  as far as investment decisions go , what was your best ?  i travelled and started learning to cook , and then i was actually deported from the states for working illegally , but i realised then that i wanted to cook . i managed to get back into north america and i borrowed quite a bit of money off my mother to go to the new england culinary institute , to do a culinary arts degree . and that was the best money i spent .  logan brown was what you became known for . you spent an awful lot of money on restoration .  the building was a bank and the walls were about a foot and a half thick but logan brown was my first restaurant with steve and i think we opened in 1996 . it was a pretty big deal but our attitude was we wanted to draw a line in the sand and have a i think we did pretty well .  it seemed like an absolutely huge amount of money at the time but these days . . . it seems like a pittance .  it seems to me a lot of creative people make their financial decisions on a creative basis .  yeah , the rewards certainly are n't financial by any stretch , compared to so many other jobs . being in the restaurant industry , something like 80 per cent of all restaurants and cafes and hospitality outlets close within 18 months .  there are n't many people that get wealthy in our industry , although it looks like that . you have to be pretty savvy on your costs and i 've never been a particularly good mathematician , but i 've always surrounded myself with people who are .  have your attitudes towards spending changed as you 've gotten older ?  i guess one thing i 've learned is i certainly do n't skimp . i ca n't stand things that are half-cocked or people trying to do something on the cheap . but money either . . . if you 've spent too much setting up , it can be a long road getting into the black .  have you made any investment mistakes ?  steve and i created a product called the grill slinger years ago which was basically a barbecue tool belt and we invested quite a lot of money into that . . . we sold , i do n't know , something like 30,000 around the world and we never got paid a penny because we kept investing back into it . . . i think you 've got to have some failures to be really good , and understand why things went wrong .  you 've got to be able to pay the rent and pay your mortgage and put shoes on your kid 's feet , but you can be extremely wealthy without having a lot of money in the bank . i think that 's what new zealand affords a lot of the time .  i think we should never forget or be apathetic about where we live and the opportunities we have can walk down to the beach and collect shellfish and eat them . there are not many places in the world you can do that .  do you have kiwisaver ?  my kiwisaver 's hopefully my new book that 's coming out ! i have a wonderful accountant and we 're about to get all my family onto kiwisaver .  do you like a flutter ?  i 've never played a pokie machine in my life , but i love going to the races occasionally . and i love my footie , my rugby and enjoy having a $20 bet on the first try scorer or points spread . but i never buy lotto tickets , not really a gambler .  i 'm not frugal with my money but i do n't like to overspend and i like to be able to sleep at night . the thought of being financially stretched stresses the life out of me .  but is n't starting a business a bit of a gamble ?  risk gets me out of bed and i enjoy a certain amount of pretty seriously .