Warlord wins closest Bridge to Bridge race yet
http://www.stuff.co.nz/waikato-times/sport/63695005/Warlord-wins-closest-Bridge-to-Bridge-race-yet

Warlord wins closest Bridge to Bridge race yet  EVAN PEGDEN  Last updated 05:00 , December 1 2014  Mark Taylor/Fairfax NZ  Record equalled : Mark Cromie takes Kwik Kiwi to the open powerboat race honours in a time equalling his 2008 record in the Bridge to Bridge Water Ski Classic on Waikato River yesterday . Photo : Mark Taylor/Fairfax NZ  Warlord is back on top in Hamilton 's annual Bridge to Bridge Water Ski Classic for the 12th time - but yesterday only got it 's title back by the narrowest of margins in the closest race yet on Waikato River .  In a dazzling all-Tauranga battle with last year 's winner Messiah , the two boats produced identical times on the first leg from Cambridge to Taupiri of what is New Zealand 's premier water ski race .  But Tauranga driver Simon Morrison 's Warlord , a Bullet 2100 powered by two Mercury S3000 outboards , was eight seconds faster on the final leg back to Hamilton to take out the overall long race honours in a slick time of Tauranga observer Grant Plummer and two Australian skiers , had been gunning for their 12th title after losing it to Superclass twin turbo dart-powered Messiah last year but suffered a setback when Melbourne skier Dale Halley fell off in Saturday 's time trial , pushing them back in yesterday 's start list .  Sydney 's Craig Gordon , who had been skiing behind another boat , Adrenalin Racing , that suffered a blown engine , replaced Halley on the skis alongside Melbourne 's Rhys Duggan in yesterday 's race .  But it was Messiah , driven by Tauranga 's Kevin Murphy , with Rotorua 's Tony Bradley as observer and Vaughan Hyde ( Rotorua ) and Bevan Turksma ( Wellington ) the skiers , that set the fastest time with a record run in the time trial and was first off the grid yesterday .  Coming in third in the long race yesterday , less than a minute further back , was the Chevrolet 510 supercharged Under Siege , of Hamilton .  Driven by Ross Christensen , Under Siege had Adam Smale as observer and Andy Cardno on the skis .  Another highlight yesterday was the open powerboats race ( without skiers ) from Hamilton to Ngaruawahia and back , which was won by the helicopter turbine-engined Kwik Kiwi of Mark Cromie in a time that equalled Cromie 's own record of 13:44 , set in 2008 .  Entries for the 31st Yamaha Rollos Marine Bridge to Bridge Water Ski Classic were up in every class from last year , according to organiser Brad Dutton.