'Kidnap victim' recovering, says father
http://www.odt.co.nz/news/queenstown-lakes/325744/kidnap-victim-recovering-says-father

police were continuing to treat the incident as serious despite posts on facebook by someone identifying themselves as joseph saying the incident was ' ' a joke ' ' .  the comments were ' ' ill-founded ' ' , insp jensen said .  a post appeared on joseph 's facebook page about 7pm on sunday , claiming the kidnapping was based on lies and a hoax .  yesterday similar posts were attributed to him .  a teenager charged over the alleged kidnapping appeared in the queenstown district court yesterday .  mark junior taylor ( 17 ) , of no fixed abode , was remanded in custody on charges that from november 25-27 , in queenstown , he jointly with pita william hapurona wilson and others unlawfully detained casey johnston and andrew lee without their consent .  he is due to appear in the invercargill district court today , along with a 36-year-old queenstown man , who is charged with being an accessory after the fact to injuring .  the pair were arrested at the weekend .  queenstown police and yesterday and questioned the car 's two occupants about the kidnapping . no arrests were made .  insp jensen said police were confident veint and wilson were not a threat to the public .  ' ' the situation could be resolved by wilson and veint making contact directly or indirectly with police , ' ' he said .  ' ' the two men do not pose a risk to the general public . however , they should not be approached . ' '  anyone who sees either of them should call police immediately on 111 , he said .  during a media briefing yesterday afternoon about the case , insp jensen was reserved about the details of the investigation .  he would not comment on veint and wilson 's access to firearms .  ' ' they do n't pose a danger or risk to the public generally , but we will take precautions in dealing with the gentlemen , ' ' he said .  he would not be drawn on specifics of the case , other than to say ' ' all of ' .  he also refused to comment on the nature of the injuries sustained by mr armstrong .  ' ' mr armstrong has suffered some injuries . he was spoken to last night and he was advised that he should be seeking medical treatment for those injuries , ' ' he said .  ' ' i 'm not going to comment on the nature of the injuries . ' '  questions from the odt to police about how those caught up in the case knew each other went unanswered yesterday . also unanswered were questions about how police learnt about the alleged kidnapping and why it took place .  anyone with information that could help police can contact queenstown police on ( 03 ) 441-1600(03) 441-1600 . information can also be provided anonymously via crimestoppers on 0800 555-1110800 555-111.