Two native title claim groups vote in favour of billion-dollar settlement
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-02-17/second-native-title-group-votes-in-favour-of-deal/6126628

Two native title claim groups have now voted in favour of a $1.3 billion settlement offer covering parts of Western Australia 's South West .  The State Government made its final offer in July 2013 in an attempt to settle long-running disputes relating to an area north of Jurien Bay to east of Hopetoun , including Perth , involving six principal claim groups .  The second of six authorisation meetings was held in Busselton at the weekend for members of the South West Boojarah native title group .  The South West Aboriginal Land and Sea Council 's chief executive Glen Kelly said 65 per cent of attendees voted to accept the deal .  " There were a couple hundred people there on this occasion , " he said .  It followed a similar result at the first authorisation meeting in Bunbury in January , where 70 per cent of approximately 300 members of the Gnaala Karla Boodja claim group voted to accept the offer .  " Next weekend we 're in Katanning for the Wagyl Kaip , so the Noongar claim , " Mr Kelly said .  " Unfortunately this Saturday just gone we had a few people come along who knew that they were n't part of the claim group but wanted to be vocal in the meetings , but they were n't permitted to come in because they 're not part of the claim group .  " That 's actually in line with Noongar culture and custom - you ca n't speak for other peoples ' country . "  Mr Kelly said while the first two meetings had been positive , the council was not taking the outcome of the remaining four meetings for granted .  " We have our work cut out and it is about people expressing their free will so we respect that , " he said .  The agreement includes the creation of a trust which the Government would invest $50 million in each year for 12 years , along with land transfers , programs and a Noongar recognition bill .  " We 're lining up these claims because there are massive , massive benefits in this agreement that will The final authorisation meeting is scheduled to be held in Perth for the Whadjuk claim group in late March .