The Baha'i soul of Australian singer Shameem
http://www.abc.net.au/radionational/programs/rhythmdivine/bah%C3%A1'%C3%AD-soul/6091382

the baha'i soul of australian singer shameem  it reads like a film script -- struggling musician posts demos online and gets interest from a grammy-winning producer who offers to co-write her new single -- but it 's what happened to young perth-based baha'i singer-songwriter shameem , writes geoff wood .  ' it shows that myspace is n't completely dead , ' says shameem , laughing as she recalls the day a grammy-winning producer turned her life upside down .  ' i got this message on myspace from james bryan and i had n't heard of him . he 'd actually found some demos that i 'd done . he said , " i really love your voice and do you write your own music ? "  ' i wrote back and said , " yes i do . " and he said , " well would you like to come to the uk sometime and do some co-writing with me ? " '  one of the central teachings of the baha'i faith is that everybody should investigate the truth for themselves , of things .  shameem , singer/songwriter  the path from online demos to a british recording studio sounds like fiction but that 's the way it happened for perth-based singer-songwriter shameem taheri-lee . the result of those recording sessions with james bryan , who has worked with the likes of nelly furtado and olly murs , can be found on shameem 's new album of neo-soul , the second city .  ' neo-soul is based on soul music , so it 's got a lot of the feeling of soul music , but it 's got a lot of other influences , ' she says . ' it often has more hip-hoppy beats , and more of an r&amp;b feel to some of it , and sometimes it has quite jazzy chords as well .  ' we 're talking about artists like jill scott , erykah badu ; alicia keys can even be considered a neo-soul artist . '  it turns out that alicia keys has been a touchstone for shameen for a long time .  ' music has always been around me growing up . my parents both love music a lot .  ' when i was in high school i began writing songs quite seriously and i became enchanted with alicia keys because she played the piano and wrote her own songs and she was very soulful . i loved that about her . '  ' when i was 15 i chose to become a baha'i myself , ' she says . ' one of the central teachings of the baha'i faith is that everybody should investigate the truth for themselves , independently and come to their own conclusions about the reality of things .  ' the age of maturity is considered to be 15 years old in the baha'i faith and so at that age i was free to make my own choice and i did choose to continue living as a baha'i . '  shameem 's mother , also a baha'i , was born in tehran and came to australia in 1973 , where she met and married her chinese-malaysian husband . baha'is have suffered persecution in iran for many years , which was one of the reasons the baha'is in australia since 1920 , though .  ' its core belief is that all of humanity is one , that we all come from one god ... and that all the different religions that there are owe their existence to that one god as well , ' says shameem .  ' he is infinite and incomprehensible to human beings but he makes his will and purpose known to us by sending us a spiritual teacher . we call it a manifestation of god .  baha'is believe that these manifestations of god include jesus , muhammad , buddha , krishna and moses . the 19th century founder of the faith , bah ? ' u 'll ? h , is considered by baha'is to be the latest of these manifestations . as shameem explains , that message continues to have relevance for bah ? ' ? s today .  ' some of the teachings that come from the idea of the oneness of humanity include the equality of men and women , the principle of universal education , the elimination of the extremes of poverty and wealth development of an auxiliary universal language so that we can transcend barriers of culture and language . '  for those inclined to listen closely , the songs of shameem 's album clearly embody core baha'i teachings . the album title has special significance .  ' the title the second city comes from a work by bah ? ' u 'll ? h called the seven valleys , ' she says . ' it describes our journey towards god in seven stages . it calls them seven valleys or seven cities .  ' one of the songs on this album is actually inspired by the second valley or city , the valley of love , and i just really loved the imagery of the valley of love , which is what led me to write a song about it .  ' when i was going to name the album i thought well , it 's my second album and there 's a song inspired by the second of those valleys or cities so i 'll call it the second city .  the influence of bah ? ' two tracks which feature a rhyming couplet from the original text chanted in persian by celebrated australian baha'i vocalist shidan toloui-wallace .  though it 's only her second album , the second city is a showcase for shameem 's exceptional voice , mixing soulful grooves with inspiration from the teachings and poetry of the baha'i faith -- what we might call baha'i soul .  she 's not alone , either . shameem is part of a new wave of young baha'i musicians who have made their mark on the international music scene , ranging from nashville-based devotional group the humming birds ( featuring the daughters of prominent baha'i duo seals and crofts ) with their crafted pop harmonies , to young australian artists like shadi toloui-wallace , tahereh etehad , natasha chiang and mana , who perform baha'i-inspired pacific island music .  for shameem , the reason for this musical outpouring is obvious .  ' the baha'i attitude towards music is that music helps to uplift the human soul , that it is food for soul .  ' when you pair beautiful music with words of force for transforming the human heart in a positive way . '  shameem 's 2015 australian tour includes melbourne , canberra sydney , newcastle , brisbane and byron bay , and finishes up in adelaide on 1st march . the second city is out now . take a musical journey through the realm of spirituality , exploring the world 's devotional music . the rhythm divine is a soundtrack to the spirit .  ramsey :  craven :  09 apr 2015 4:28:32pm  i met shameem some years ago and could tell from her eyes that she was a positive spirit inhabiting a troubled world . she is well on the way to becoming whole and i wish her all the best on her journey . her music 's pretty cool too.enlightenment . this time it 's impersonal .