The future of Mein Kampf in a meme world
http://theconversation.com/the-future-of-mein-kampf-in-a-meme-world-38353

the future of mein kampf in a meme world  author  professor of history and director of the undergraduate program in judaic studies , fairfield university  disclosure statement  gavriel d rosenfeld does not work for , consult , own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article , and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond the academic appointment above .  seventy-five years ago , in his autobiographical volume hitler and i ( 1940 ) , the one-time nazi party member and later renegade , otto strasser , offered up a frank reminiscence about hitler 's infamous book , mein kampf . strasser was dining with several high-ranking nazi officials at the 1927 nazi party congress in nuremberg when he was asked if he had ever read hitler 's notorious treatise .  strasser replied :  " i admitted having quoted some significant passages from it without bothering my head about the context . this caused general amusement , and it was agreed that the first person who joined us who had read mein kampf 's brother and a leading party member 's answer was a resounding ' no , ' goebbels shook his head guiltily , goering burst into loud laughter , and count reventlow excused himself on the ground that he had had no time . nobody had read mein kampf , so everybody had to pay his own bill . "  while historians have long debated how many germans actually read mein kampf during the third reich , today a different question has arisen : will anyone in germany read it once it can be legally published there in early 2016 ? and what might be the impact on a digital generation for whom the f ? hrer is a distant memory or internet meme ?  later this year , the official copyright for mein kampf expires -- 70 years after the demise of its author . since 1945 , the bavarian state ( which owns the copyright ) has refused to allow anyone to publish the volume . but in expectation of the copyright 's expiration ( and in the hope of getting a jump on neo-nazis who may try the esteemed munich and berlin-based institute for contemporary history decided some years ago to publish its own , critically annotated version . the move has generated some opposition , with some arguing against the release of any new version ; " can you annotate the devil ? " one critic asks .  the question is whether anyone will have the strength to lift , let alone read , the new edition . the volume will be hefty , numbering more than 2,000 pages -- the result of nearly 5,000 annotations supplied by scholars . these annotations will critically engage hitler 's ideologically rooted claims in mein kampf , the goal being to prevent gullible readers from accepting any of them at face value .  who will read the new edition of mein kampf ?  neo-nazis and other right-wing extremists will surely shy away from this new volume . but what about younger germans who may simply be curious about the book ? to be sure , they -- like all german readers -- have been able to access used and online versions of mein kampf for some time german law ) thanks to internet vendors . but if they have n't found their way to a version of the book by now , will they be tempted to look at the forthcoming edition ?  perhaps some will . but the likelihood is that the weighty tome will appeal to very few who belong to the millennial generation . younger germans , like their peers worldwide , have grown up reading brief twitter feeds and facebook posts . when browsing the web , their attention spans , if estimates are to be believed , run to less than thirty seconds per website . moreover , they have been exposed to countless examples of the " hitler meme , " in the form of irreverent images that spoof the former f ? hrer , in the form of satirical videos on youtube , websites like cats that look like hitler , and online games like six degrees of hitler . today 's youth culture , in short , is accustomed to superficially mocking , rather than deeply engaging , with hitler and his legacy .  for this reason , re-issuing of mein kampf probably need n't worry . indeed , in important ways , the book runs counter the essential dynamics of present-day web culture ,  my new book , hi hitler ! highlights my research into the increasingly common commercialization and normalization of the nazi past . i argue that a new internet rule has recently come into being , which i term the " law of ironic hitlerization . " it asserts that the likelihood of an image getting attention on the web increases as soon as a hitler moustache , swastika , or any other nazi iconography is applied to it . for those brave enough , doing a brief image search on google will turn up endless images of otherwise blameless characters -- hello kitty , colonel sanders , the teletubbies -- who have fallen victim to this dynamic .  in all likelihood , however , mein kampf will resist the " law of ironic hitlerization . " unless intrepid web users can devise a way to " hitlerize " -- that is , to affix nazi iconography to -- mein kampf 's textual for many readers , will be akin to stumbling upon a fossil .