State Attorneys-General unite to warn George Brandis of crisis in ...
http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/political-news/state-attorneysgeneral-unite-to-warn-george-brandis-of-crisis-in-legal-funding-20150306-13x8d1.html

state attorneys-general unite to warn george brandis of crisis in legal funding  james massola , michaela whitbourn , richard willingham  state and territory attorneys-general have written to senator george brandis over a funding crisis for legal assistance . photo : andrew meares  liberal and labor state attorneys-general have banded together to warn federal counterpart george brandis that a " crisis " in legal assistance funding will hurt the most vulnerable members of the community , and that further cuts to legal services are " short-sighted and ill-conceived " .  in a blistering letter sent to senator brandis on thursday and signed by the first law officers of all states and territories , the attorneys-general state that women and children who are victims of domestic violence and indigenous australians are among those who will be most affected by cuts to legal funding .  " the crisis in legal assistance funding has reached such a level that we , the undersigned attorneys-general , need to take this step to urge you to reconsider current proposals for the new national funding agreement , " the concern about proposed cuts in funding to legal aid commissions , community legal centres , the aboriginal legal services as well as a range of changes to administrative arrangements .  advertisement  " these proposals will affect the most vulnerable members in our community , including foremost women and children who are victims of or at risk of family violence , as well as indigenous australians . it is difficult to reconcile these actions with the prime minister 's recent recognition of the importance of tackling domestic and family violence and closing the gap between indigenous and non-indigenous australians " .  further cuts could " set us back decades " , the eight law officers , including brad hazzard of nsw , victoria 's martin pakula and the act 's simon corbell have written .  mr hazzard told fairfax media : " a just society demands that people have access to the law .  " all we 're asking is for the federal treasury to realise that they have a role in this . it 's simply undeniable . "  asked if the state and territory mr hazzard said , " that 's not for us to do , it 's for the federal attorney general to do " .  mr hazzard said the high court case of dietrich v the queen clearly set out that courts could halt criminal trials where the accused was unrepresented .  this had a flow-on effect to taxpayers because accused people were left " sitting in jails which could be costing an average of $160,000 per year " .  victoria 's attorney-general martin pakula said it would be " totally incongruous " of prime minister tony abbott to talk about action on family violence while cutting the crucial legal assistance funding .  mr pakula said victoria the state already received the lowest per capita share of funding under the current national partnership agreement for legal assistance services , which was why victoria legal aid has one of the most stringent means tests in australia .  " if tony abbott and george brandis are serious about tackling family violence , they 'll stop slashing funding for the legal support services that need it most , " mr federal parliament had shown " its best side this week with a commitment to tackle the scourge of domestic violence ... but all the fine words in the world amount to nothing if they are not backed up with action " .  " our systems should be built upon one fundamental principle : when forced to court seeking protection from family violence , you and your children should never walk alone , " he said .  " i call upon the prime minister to urgently reverse these cuts and confirm the continuation of the government 's support for these vital services . "  a spokesman for senator brandis said he was considering the letter from his state and territory counterparts .  " the government is committed to protecting the most vulnerable members of our community and will continue to provide a very substantial amount of funding for legal assistance , " he said .  funding would be considered as part of the 2015 federal budget process , he said .  the president of the nsw bar association , jane needham , sc , acknowledged the fund for expensive federal criminal cases but said a " a long term solution to the legal aid crisis " was required .  " the federal government needs to meet its responsibilities under the commonwealth/state legal aid agreement and provide the $200 million in funding for legal aid recommended by the productivity commission in its recent access to justice report , " ms needham said .