Making sense of Australia's foreign actor visa dispute
http://www.smh.com.au/entertainment/movies/making-sense-of-australias-foreign-actor-visa-dispute-20150306-13wivy.html

if meryl streep were to come to australia to make another film with fred schepisi , as she did in 1988 with evil angels ( based on the lindy chamberlain story ) , there would be few complaints .  even if the production benefited from government subsidies , it would still be an australian story , with an australian director , mostly australian cast and crew , and filmed in australia -- all of it made that bit more sellable to the world thanks to the presence of a bona fide international star .  what 's not to love about that ?  advertisement  ( meryl streep , as lindy chamberlain in evil angels , would be welcome back . all her american mates ? maybe not so much . )  but if meryl streep were to make the same film here with a bunch of other americans in the lead roles , it would be a different story . opportunities for our talent to shine would have been lost -- or , if you prefer , stolen -- and many people would a project .  why is this a hot topic right now ?  in a discussion paper released in january , the government flagged its desire to simplify the temporary work ( entertainment ) visa ( subclass 420 ) , in line with its commitment to " reducing the burden and cost of unnecessary or inefficient regulation " .  the union representing actors and crew , the media , entertainment and arts alliance , opposed the mooted changes , arguing that " taxpayer funds should not go towards paying foreign stars " and that " it is an important cultural objective to tell australian stories with australian faces and voices on screen " .  independent senator nick xenophon agreed . " if these regulations are removed it would probably be the texas chainsaw massacre , because that 's the effect it will have on australian actors and crew , " he said .  ( actress susie porter , at right with puberty blues co-stars dan wyllie and brenna harding , has argued against the mooted changes . " local actors like me need every possible opportunity to " it 's how we get our training , it 's how we make a name for ourselves , it 's how we tell australian stories . " )  how does it work now ?  as it stands , the ability of a producer to import foreign actors is strictly limited . the bigger the budget and the greater the proportion of it raised from overseas the more leeway there is , but generally speaking it is extremely hard to make a case for more than one lead role , one supporting role and one cameo going to overseas actors in any film receiving government subsidies .  crucially , the union must be consulted on any proposed imports , a condition that does not apply to any other class of visa ( but one justified , the union says , on the grounds of the cultural significance of the sector ) .  what changes are being proposed ?  the key changes being considered are that ministerial sign-off would no longer be needed and that the union would no longer be consulted .  removing the need end the cap on the number of foreign actors allowed into the country to work on a production .  the union says that will mean fewer opportunities for australian actors .  ( sarah snook in her breakout role in predestination . it 's not hard to imagine that the role might have gone to an american had the rules been different . )  the case of sarah snook , for example , might be illustrative . the rising star delivered a career-making performance in predestination , opposite american actor ethan hawke . but if there had been no limits on foreign actors , would she even have landed the role ? given its budget ( north of $7 million ) , setting ( the us ) , and source material ( a short story by an american science-fiction writer ) there is every possibility the role might have gone to an american actress instead .  on the other hand , the producers say lifting the limits on foreign actors will make it much easier to raise finance from overseas ( because a name recognised beyond these shores a chance of appealing to audiences beyond these shores ) , and that as a result more content will be made , which inevitably means there will be more jobs for australian actors and crew .  some actors agree with them too : roy billing has written " we actors need to look past the narrow thinking of our union and its current leadership , and our own selfishness , and consider the added work opportunities that more production would give to ... that myriad group of workers whose names appear in the credits at the end of a film " .  who is right ?  it 's hard to say because so much of this is about trying to predict the unpredictable . clearly , though , there are vested interests on both sides . the union does n't want to be dealt out of its position of influence , and it does have legitimate concerns about the erosion of the cultural imperative that underpins government support of the sector ( and if the cultural argument is weakened , it 's not a massive stretch to see can no longer be justified ) .  it 's worth noting that the union does not have a right of veto , despite the impression some on the other side have tried to create ; it can only make recommendations in support of or against an application .  in 2013-14 , the arts minister issued certificates for 114 foreign actors ( the visas themselves are granted by the immigration minister ) . meaa director zoe angus says the union raised concerns on " maybe half a dozen occasions " ( including applications for crew , for whom more than 2000 visas were issued ) , and says it objected to just one application for a foreign actor . " and that was rolled by the minister . "  but the other side has a point too : producers object to having to pay the meaa a consultation fee ( $550 an application ) and to the 14-day turnaround to process it . " putting a deal together to make a film , it all has to come together in a lightning moment , " says spa chief matthew n't nail it down straight away , you 're just better moving on to some place that can . "  is there a middle ground ?  maybe , but no one seems to have raised it yet .  it 's possible to envisage a scheme that grants a little more flexibility to producers but still imposes limits on the number of foreign actors a production can employ . it might no longer need the arts minister to sign off on deals . it might be administered by a new or existing agency or by the immigration department instead .  the union might need to concede some ground , too . foxtel suggested in its submission that " the union could be involved in periodic reviews ( perhaps every three years ) of the use of overseas talent in australian productions " . that 's unlikely to wash with the meaa or with those concerned that the floodgates are about to open , but it 's hard to see a way forward without some sort of compromise .  ( australian actors rallied in july 2011 against the australian films . from left to right : equity chief simon whipp , gerrard kennedy , terry norris , john flaus and terry donovan . )  back then , producer antony ginnane , whose three-year term as president of the screen producers association had just ended , claimed the actors ' union was " frightened , heading for the hills , and it 's our job to get out there and shoot them down " .  there might be some in the government 's ranks who hold the same view , but the best outcome for the industry is likely to come from a rather more considered position than that .