There is already a brilliant parody of Dove's latest 'Real Beauty' ad ...
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/funny-or-die-parody-dove-real-beauty-doors-choosebeautiful-advert-2015-4

There is already a brilliant parody of Dove 's latest ' Real Beauty ' ad , switching the focus to men and their penis size  Dove 's " Campaign for Real Beauty " has been running for more than a decade now , with each new ad highlighting women 's lack of self confidence about their appearance , and how they will feel better about themselves if they accept they are beautiful . The well-trodden storyline means the campaign is ripe fodder for parody .  And that 's exactly what comedy troupe Funny or Die has done this month , re-working Dove 's latest #ChooseBeautiful ad , where women around the world are presented with a choice of walking through two doors : one that has a sign above it reading " Beautiful , " and another reading " Average . "  In Funny or Die 's treatment of the ad , which we first spotted on Adweek , the video switches the focus to men and asks them to choose between two doors marked " Average D*** , " or " Big D*** the men opt for the " Big D*** " door . One guy who chose " Average " says : " I walked through the door that said ' Average D*** ' and I did n't really feel good about that , because I was n't telling being truthful . "  Another man describes his " 20.3 cm " member as like " Big Ben , " while another ponders the universal question of what an " Average D*** " really is : " Are we talking width ? Are we talking length ? Are we talking girth ? Are we talking weight ? Because , quite frankly , weight is really all I got . "  The parody video aped the real ad by featuring women who had been invited into a lab setting to take part in an experiment , with what turned out to be a pseudo-scientist . The scientist then leaves the room , leaving the participants with nothing to do but look in the mirror , only to find a man in a gorilla suit staring back at them .  The video concludes psychology experiment , and it showed you you 're not actually a hideous monster . So where 's our Nobel Peace Prize or whatever ? "