The Mighty Sandow: How the world's strongest man wowed ...
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-21/mighty-sandow-worlds-strongest-man/6408670

With his golden curls , waxed moustache and bulging muscles , Eugen Sandow cut quite a figure when he performed in Australia in 1902 .  Born Friedrich Wilhelm Mueller in Prussia in 1867 , Sandow was billed as the strongest man on earth and has come to be regarded as the father of body building .  The National Library of Australia ( NLA ) has a collection of material related to his Australian tour , including handbills , newspaper reports and a local edition of his book The Gospel of Strength , which included exercises that outlined Sandow 's theories on physical culture .  The NLA 's manager of Printed Australiana Erica Ryan said the book , which included photos of Sandow posing in leopard print briefs and a fold-out image of his arm , " tapped into that enthusiasm that there clearly was amongst the community " for his appearances at the Tivoli Theatre .  " If you look through the newspapers from the period , in the early 1900s , there 's loads and loads and loads of sensational reports about London , and what incredible things he could do , " Ms Ryan said .  The program for his first Sydney appearance promised he would exhibit his " 400 phenomenally developed " muscles , tear packs of playing cards in half , and lift -- at arm 's length -- a grand piano on which a musician was performing , and support on his chest " a platform ( weighing 800lbs/363kg ) on which three horses play at see-saw " .  Inspired by marble sculptures  In an interview for an Australian newspaper , The Mighty Sandow , as he was also known , described himself as " a delicate child " who was inspired to exercise after a visit to Italy at the age of 10 .  He said his eyes were opened " by the glorious sculptures of the men who ruled the world when rule was a matter of strength , not money and weapons " .  As a young man , Sandow joined the circus to avoid military service , performing tricks and feats of strength .  In the late 1880s in aka Professor Attila , who encouraged him to participate in strongman competitions .  He opened a gymnasium , became the first Ziegfeld star in the United States and organised what is believed to be the world 's first major body building competition , which was held in London 's Albert Hall in 1901 .  The three judges were Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , the physician who invented Sherlock Holmes , the athlete and sculptor Sir Charles Lawes , and Sandow himself .  " Sandow was obviously impressed with statuesque figures and I ca n't help but wonder whether or not he might have in fact modelled for Charles Lawes , " Ms Ryan said .  " He does look like a lump of marble in the fold-outs in The Gospel of Strength . "  Eugen Sandow died in England in 1925 , with some reports claiming he suffered a brain haemorrhage caused by lifting a car single-handedly out of a ditch .  " He was just such a celebrity , " Ms Ryan said .  " He was phenomenally strong ... like nothing anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @