Cellmid appoints Dr Bryce Vissel as chairman of scientific advisory ...
http://www.proactiveinvestors.com.au/companies/news/63324/cellmid-appoints-dr-bryce-vissel-as-chairman-of-scientific-advisory-board-63324.html

Cellmid Limited ( ASX:CDY ) has appointed award winning researcher Dr Bryce Vissel as chairman of its scientific advisory board to guide efforts to translate its robust science into meaningful patient outcomes .  Vissel is currently the Head of the Neurodegenerative Diseases research group at the Garvan Institute of Medical Research .  He is also Conjoint Senior Lecturer at St Vincent 's Clinical School , Faculty of Medicine , University of New South Wales .  Prior to that Dr Vissel worked for a decade at the highly prestigious Salk Institute in La Jolla , California , the world 's leading neuroscience laboratory .  He was recruited by the Garvan Institute to Australia from California 's Salk Institute to establish and lead research in brain and spinal cord disorders and repair .  Dr Vissel 's research has been widely recognised internationally , and he has received a number of awards , including the prestigious Fulbright award , a Liebermann award and a BIOFIRST award .  He has published more than 50 peer-reviewed papers , many in top tier journals .  Maria Dr Vissel is a world-class researcher and his outstanding medical research experience will be invaluable in guiding Cellmid 's therapeutic development programs toward clinical success .  Dr Vissel added :  " Cellmid 's sharp focus on midkine underpins a range of therapeutic development programs for the company . This is because manipulating midkine therapeutically offers important potential for treating a range of diseases .  " My goal is to help realise this potential so that patients can benefit from the robust science underlying the company 's drug development programs . "  Last month , the company was issued a Notice of Allowance for a U.S. patent covering its lead humanised antibody CAB102 for the treatment of cancer .  This follows on patents already in force in Europe , Australia and Japan .  Its patent portfolio currently includes 88 patents in 21 patent families , which cover use of MK and anti-MK agents for therapeutic purposes in a number of diseases , as well as the use of MK as a diagnostic marker in cancer and other disorders .  Proactive Investors Australia is the market ASX emerging companies with distribution in Australia , UK , North America and Hong Kong / China .