2015 in review: Tactix continue to be whipping girls of the competition
http://netballscoop.com/2015/07/2015-in-review-tactix-continue-to-be-whipping-girls-of-the-competition/

2015 in review : Tactix continue to be whipping girls of the competition  Taking the title from original owners Central Pulse , for a long and harrowed six years the Mainland Tactix have been widely known as the whipping girls of the ANZ Championship . They faced some embarrassing scorelines throughout the 2015 season , once again finishing bottom of the table , a feat that is a worrying reoccurrence .  To make matters worse , 2015 was also a record-breaking year , equalling their previous worst records of one win for the season . The win in the last round against the Waikato Bay of Magic was suprising , and may have been the Tactix making it to the light at the end of the tunnel .  However , the words ' promise ' and ' potential ' have been thrown around for many seasons . ' Rebuilding ' is another one added to the lot , but in the end the Tactix 's performances defined the team . An injury-ravaged Magic managed to win the New Zealand conference , but the Tactix  New coach in Australian Sue Hawkins was expected to work miracles , but the 12 signed up to the Tactix were missing one key aspect -- height . Import Demelza Fellowes and defender Jess Moulds both stand at 188cm , but are far shy of the taller goal shooters posting up in the ANZ Championship .  The midcourt was neither flashy , but servicable . Hayley Saunders was solid in WD and Anna Thompson sound in C. Erikana Pederson gained more court time at WA as the season wore on , seeming more available in the attacking end than Keshia Grant . Although the midcourt were a determined bunch , they lacked the ability to generate turnover ball . The oppposing attacking team did n't have the fear of a flying intercept and could move the ball whichever way they pleased . At times it seemed GA Bailey Mes was the lone ranger in putting the pressure on the ball carrier , creating many deflections in the process .  Combination to watch  Bailey Mes and Mwayi Kumwenda , both great movers and holders , continued to improve the most turnovers in the Tactix side -- either a lack of judgement , or perhaps an unavailable midcourt was the reason for this . Mes ' confidence grew over the year -- if her long shots and good accuracy continue into the 2016 season , this could be a dangerous combination for the opposition .  Report card  Room for improvement .  For a team at the bottom of the table , the optimists will say there is only way to go -- up ! We saw small improvements over the course of this season , and maybe another year with coach Sue Hawkins will be enough to suprise fans in 2016.  share  Comments ( 3 )  Height is not always the asset . You have to be a great mover and thinker if you do not have the height . Its the strength of the mind that overcomes the disadvantages . Let 's not forget our past defenders who did not have the height however had the strength in body and mind to overcome this . Its the will and want to win and it -- they just need to believe in it and put it out there when it counts .  Height in the defence end does of course help , but it 's not just height that will win you a game . Look at Corletto of the NSW Swifts , Geitz of the Qld Firebirds , Cullen of Nthn Mystics , though somewhat tall , these defenders do not match the height of JFR , CBass , Romelda and Borrego but their vertical jump , quickness to the ball and athleticism does win them possession over their much taller opponents . Tactix are in dire need of quality defenders that 's obvious , but to be honest , they need quality all over the court . Both Mes and Kumwenda do provide that , but 2 players , does not a team make .  recent articles  donate  It 's important that Netball Scoop is all about the game -- the players , the teams , the fans and the readers . We 're completely ad free , but if you think we 're doing a good job , .