Ronda Rousey needs 34 seconds to make a point
http://www.smh.com.au/sport/ronda--rousey-needs-34-seconds-to-make-a-point-20150802-giprvv.html

using her newly developed punching power instead of her famed armbar , rousey knocked out challenger bethe correia 34 seconds into their ultimate fighting championship bantamweight title bout in brazil on saturday night ( local time ) .  rousey ( 12-0 ) has now won 11 of her 12 fights in the first round , and she has ended her last four in 34 seconds , 14 seconds , 16 seconds and 66 seconds .  advertisement  rousey kept the fight a stand-up battle and first hurt correia significantly with a big right hand , followed by a hard left punch to the face . she then landed a knee to the body , then finished correia with a short right hand to the temple .  correia ( 9-1 ) slumped to the mat , unresponsive , as referee john mccarthy signalled the bout was over .  " i planned not to force it ... she went for the clinch , and could n't ... i guess you ca n't doubt my hands anymore , " rousey said in the octagon afterward . rio de janeiro , fiercely striding to the octagon while wearing the brazilian flag like a cape behind her .  but her performance could n't match that apparent rage , and she briefly tumbled backward while struggling to find rousey and avoid a fight on the mat with the 2008 olympic judo bronze medallist .  rousey expressed outrage when correia said in the lead-up to the fight that she hoped the champion would n't commit suicide if she lost , talk rousey thought went below the belt considering her father committed suicide .  in the co-main event , light-heavyweight antonio rogerio nogueira blasted former champion mauricio " shogun " rua with a slew of wicked left-handed punches late in the first round , wobbling rua .  but rua rallied in the second by keeping nogueira backed to the canvas for most of the round , then whipped in some body kicks in the third . nogueira sought a deciding chokehold in the third , but rua slipped away .  judges gave rua ( 23-10 ) a 29-28 unanimous-decision victory on all three scorecards . it was by decision .  " i did feel that punch , was a bit groggy for a while , but i just had to recuperate , " rua said in the octagon afterward . " i won . i got the victory . "  struve , the tallest fighter in the ufc at 6-foot-11 , avoided the 39-year-old nogueira 's submission attempts and relied on his massive reach advantage to subject nogueira to big rights and hurtful jabs en route to the unanimous decision .  brazil 's claudia gadelha , the no.1 contender in the women 's strawweight division , showed the wide divide that exists between her and no. 15 jessica aguilar by repeatedly landing punches and left kicks to the head in the first round , leaving aguilar 's nose bloodied . the punishment continued until judges awarded gadelha ( 13-1 ) a victory by unanimous decision without one lost round .