Family of cyclist Rebekka Meyer hopes truck changes will save lives
http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/queensland/family-of-cyclist-rebekka-meyer-hopes-truck-changes-will-save-lives-20150821-gj55gi.html

the family of a young danish cyclist killed by a truck at a notorious brisbane intersection hope a coroner will recommend tighter regulation of heavy vehicles on inner city streets to prevent another death like hers .  rebekka meyer , 22 , was hit and killed by truck at the intersection of annerley road and stanley street , as she cycled to the university of queensland during morning peak hour on september 11 , 2014 .  during the three day inquest into her death , which finished hearing evidence on friday , the distressed truck driver , jody jeffrey , told coroner christine clements he did not see the young cyclist as she waited in front of his truck at the intersection to turn in the same direction as him just seconds before he unknowingly ran over her .  advertisement  during the course of the investigation , specialist traffic police concluded mr jeffrey 's heavy vehicle , a " conventional " truck with a protruding bonnet , had a blackspot of seven metres .  the same blackspot range applies to all trucks cycling veterans , bicycle queensland chief executive ben wilson and cbd bicycle users group co-convenor paul french , declared themselves astounded by during the course of their testimony on friday .  at the conclusion of the inquest on friday afternoon , ms meyer 's sister tania lousdal jensen said she hoped limiting the use of conventional cab trucks would be among the coroner 's recommendations .  " for us , this will always be horrific and meaningless but maybe if something can be done to prevent another accident another time , whether it 's to look at biking lanes or extra lines , physical barriers and also the trucks that are on the road , especially considering had mr jeffreys been driving a cab-over truck instead of a conventional truck , the odds are he might have seen my sister and she might still be alive , " she said .  " my first concern is my sister . if there had not been that blind spot , if it had been a cab over , he might have seen her but i think many of the other down here .  " turn every stone , check every corner . "  the seven metre blind spot in conventional cabin trucks is a figure that severely limits ms clements ' recommendation capabilities , as she works to determine the best outcomes that might prevent another horror death like ms meyer 's .  counsel assisting the coroner , anthony marinac , repeatedly told witnesses trucks were an essential component of the thriving large scale inner city development and the inquest had to work to determine how heavy vehicles could best share the road with other vehicles , in particular cyclists .  one possible recommendation being considered was the installation of bike boxes at intersections , a dedicated bike spot in front of vehicles that gave cyclists a " head start " at intersections .  however , dr marinac conceded even that would not have saved ms meyer 's life , as the truck that killed her would needed to have been seven metres back from the intersection to see her to account for the length of its blind spot .  other potential recommendations , including second head start on motor vehicles at intersections , would increase peak hour vehicle build up from 120 metres to about a kilometre , according to brisbane city council modelling .  the inquest revealed it was not just ms meyer 's family suffering the ongoing trauma of her death .  one man said he saw her foot slip off the pedal , which hindered her momentum , while another recalled thinking to himself , " i hope she gets going " just as the truck clipped her back wheel , flinging her bike into oncoming traffic and ms meyer under the vehicle and to her death .  dr marinac will take four weeks to determine the submissions he will make to the coroner .  12 comments so far  i do nt think more regulation of trucks is the answer.the accident happened because the bike and truck were only inches apart , there needs to be more separation of bikes and motor vehicles.whether it is dedicated lanes or separate infrastructure for bikes , we just need to give them somewhere safe to ride .  commenter  , 9:33pm  absolute tragedy . this intersection is one i use several times every day , sadly although this event is known by all i am aghast at the risks taken by cyclists at this junction . every day , ' yes ' every day red light running , cyclists on mobile phones , a guy on a recumbent bicycle so low it 's hard to spot at all and a mum that tows a baby in a trailer behind her bicycle . may i suggest that cyclists be required to dismount at this junction and walk their bicycles to cross the intersection . a small inconvenience to prevent another tragedy , please .  deeply disturbing and sad as it is about the lose of ms meyer , i believe cyclist should take a bit of responsibility for their own safety , i am not familiar of the circumstance of ms meyers accident , and am not trying to shift blame for individual accidents , but as a motor cycle rider have seen on more occasions than what would be seen as an acceptable percentage , cyclist put themselves will know they are there , and make room for them .  commenter  robbo54  date and time  august 22 , 2015 , 10:23am  ' i did n't see ' that **29;1058;toolong is not a reasonable excuse . its another way of saying ' i was not paying attention ' .  commenter  pete  date and time  august 22 , 2015 , 12:37pm  so the truck and trailer is stopped at a traffic light and a cyclist squeezes up the side - how is the truck driver supposed to know the poor girl is there ?  the answer is separate the bikes from the vehicles .  commenter  scotty  date and time  august 22 , 2015 , 4:16pm  without x-ray vision the truck driver could not have possibly seen the cyclist . the cyclist certainly saw the truck and ignored it . for the 2 cycling veterans not to know about blind spots in trucks is astounding and sort of shows the attitude of most cyclists .  commenter  steve  date and time  august 22 . unfortunately everyone seems to ignore that there has been a road sign for at least 7 years that tells cyclist to dismount and walk across at the pedestrian crossing . this sign is just after the entrance to the mater carpark.by rights this accident should never have happened . if cyclist decide to collectively ignore road signs is that the councils , or car drivers , fault ? maybe bicycle queensland , and the cbd bicycles user group , should have a campaign for their members to follow the road rules , that should make things a lot saver for everyone .  commenter  rob  location  springwood  date and time  august 22 , 2015 , 2:20pm  rob , there has been absolutely no suggestion that rebekka meyers was disobeying any road rules . for you to suggest otherwise is disgusting victim blaming , and reveals the kind of attitude that has led to a situation where cars and trucks have several lanes to conveniently traverse this intersection in safety while other road users have none .  commenter  aaron4065  location  brisbane 6:21pm  i 'm sorry , at what stage does it say the victim was crossing the road ? " jody jeffrey , told coroner christine clements he did not see the young cyclist as she waited in front of his truck at the intersection to turn in the same direction as him " . my understanding is they were travelling in the same direction ?