When 70% of the seafood we eat is imported and not properly ...
http://www.businessinsider.com.au/when-70-of-the-seafood-we-eat-is-imported-and-not-properly-labelled-the-australian-government-needs-to-act-2015-8

when 70% of the seafood we eat is imported and not properly labelled , the australian government needs to act  i live not far from the water . water in which you can catch flathead , that iconic australian fish that most of us have pulled in on a line since we were kids .  and yet the two nearest takeaways to me that sell " flathead " do n't sell anything from those waters . instead , the so-called flathead should , by rights , be called " argentinian stickfish " ( the scientific name is percophis brasiliensis ) if it was labelled accurately .  now , the fact so many takeaways sell imported fish and rebrand it using misleading names was news to me a couple of years back , and it 's still news to most people .  in fact , studies suggest nearly 3/4 of people assume seafood sold in australian restaurants , cafes and takeaways is local . they assume that if it 's not from the body of water closest to the diner , then at least allows those who have something to hide to keep it that way .  despite local fishers , markets , importers and wholesalers being required to have accurate fish names and to give the origins of their seafood , the hospitality industry does n't . they can be sneaky and make up names for fish . they can call anything " fish " when you ca n't simply call any warm-blooded animal flesh " mammal " or feathered animal " bird " .  they can obscure the origins of the seafood they use because the law , as it stands , exempts what 's known as ready-to-eat seafood -- any seafood cooked and sold outside the home .  some may know this already . i 've spent more than two years of lobbying , agitating , hearing the stories from local fishers about how their seafood ca n't compete with mislabelled and misrepresented products , and trying to get legislative change so we , as consumers , can know exactly what seafood is on our plates .  but the australian senate is unmoved . i 'm not against put in my mouth , and the first step in that process is to be told what you 're eating . certified sustainable fisheries , and those with a good news story from anywhere in the world , should welcome consumers being informed .  yes , we did help get a senate committee to look into seafood labelling . yes , the committee did recommend country of origin labelling be extended to all seafood sold in australia . and yes , i 've met so many responsible professional fishers who have been so excited that the regulations they meet -- to properly sort , label and record their catch accurately -- could be passed on to the consumer .  but last week , the australian senate knocked back a bill put up by south australian senator nick xenophon to transform the labelling of ready-to-eat seafood : the fish at your takeaway or sushi joint , the prawns on your pizza .  so , restaurants , cafes , bistros and takeaways can still call any fish simply " fish " , and not say exactly what it is . it . or call argentinian stickfish " flathead " , even though it 's no relation of flathead , and do it with impunity .  when i sent a list of questions to senator richard colbeck , parliamentary secretary to the minister for agriculture , who represents not just me as a tasmanian , but the entire fishing industry in australia , his response was less than emphatic . i did n't even receive a form letter . in fact , i 've yet to receive any response at all .  i know most consumers would like to know where their fish is from , even if they have someone else cook it .  they 'd like to know what they 're putting in their mouths . evidence from the nt has shown seafood sales skyrocketed when the territory government brought in country of origin labelling for seafood in restaurants . and profits also soared .  i 've been on the fishing boats . i 've seen environmental pillaging . i 've witnessed the great , the good , and the awful . i really want to i know some of you do too . and the first step in that journey is to be told what 's on the plate .  not knowing is bad for the environment . it 's bad for the consumer and it 's bad for those responsible fishers who do the right thing , both here and abroad .  i 've fought for legislative change , because the voluntary system of labelling seafood has failed . laws are there to protect us from the shonks and charlatans , not from the good and noble . but for now , thanks to both our major parties ( who ignored the advice of their own committee ) , we are still at the mercy of those who have something to hide , not something to share .  the public expect more . the seafood industry expect more . but until we see real change and accurate labelling , ready-to-eat seafood will continue to be a little fishy .  if you expect more , sign this change.org petition i 've started calling on the australian parliament to amend the legislation to of origin for all seafood sold in australia .  * matthew evans is a former restaurant critic who moved to tasmania to try his hand at farming , a career change that featured in the sbs series gourmet farmer . he 's written several books and the tv series what 's the catch , about the truth behind australian seafood and what we should be eating and why .