Facebook's Latest Update For iPhone Fixes Two Major Battery Drains
http://www.lifehacker.com.au/2015/10/facebooks-latest-update-for-iphone-fixes-two-major-battery-drains/

facebook 's latest update for iphone fixes two major battery drains  ios : if you use facebook on your iphone , you 're probably used to terrible battery drains . while we would n't count on this suddenly changing , facebook is fixing two major problems that were chipping away at your charge .  as facebook engineer ari grant explained , there were two major issues that were causing large , unnecessary battery drains . the first was a constant cpu spin cycle that was using up your resources without really doing much of anything .  the second , and seemingly worse , was a bug that caused an audio channel to stay open if you closed the app while watching a video . this left silent audio playing , which did nothing but use up precious battery power . both of these issues should be fixed in the new version .  of course , as always , using facebook 's mobile site will be a much better way to preserve your battery in the long-run . hopefully these new bug fixes will purely battery draining bugs exist in the app . it 's generally been assumed that facebook drains battery because it does too much stuff on purpose , but now it seems like some of that drain is simply due to accidentally using up resources for nothing .  trending stories right now  mac . openemu is easily the best classic game emulator for mac , and today it gets even better by adding support for 16 new consoles including playstation and nintendo 64 , alongside a ton of new features .  some shoes are better to wear without any socks , especially in the summer months . whether you like to wear flats , boat shoes , sandals or loafers , here are some tips to help you keep your shoes from smelling nasty when you strut your stuff sockless .  safety razors are a great way to get a cheaper , less irritating shave . but unlike cartridge razors , there are a ton of different blades out there , and which one you like best will depend on your razor and your skin . try a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @