Zombie ants and sprinting sumos: the week's most bizarre stories
http://thenewdaily.com.au/news/2015/10/23/stranger-than-fiction-londonufo-parrotman-taxi/

Zombie ants and sprinting sumos : the week 's most bizarre stories  Hangover clinics and sprinting sumo wrestlers are among the most bizarre stories in the news this week .  Sumo wrestlers took a break from fighting this week . Photo : Shutterstock  ' UFO ' found on busy street  The ' flying saucer ' . Photo:Facebook  London police are left laughing after being called to a suburban road for a suspected UFO crash , only to find an object far more earthly , but no less strange . Read more  The amazing parrot man  Englishman Ted Richards has tattooed his face to emulate his pet parrot 's . Photo:Shutterstock  This Englishman has taken his pet obsession several steps too far , cutting off his ears as a tribute to his exotic birds . Read more  Zombie ants want beer  The ants ' love of beer will be used against them . Photo:Getty  Northern Territory eradicators decided to use beer as bait after spotting a foreign species of ant crawling around broken beer bottles . They the worker ants into zombies . Read more  Man steals taxi to avoiding walking  The man faces a second-degree theft charge . Photo:Shutterstock  A US man has been accused of stealing a taxi after being discharged from hospital . The man told police he stole the vehicle because he did n't want to walk six blocks to his home . Read more  Retrial for woman executed 300 years ago  The woman was executed for the crime of witchcraft . Photo:Shutterstock  An Italian village council has decided to grant a retrial to a 60-year-old woman who was beheaded and set alight after being convicted of witchcraft in 1715 . A local official has researched the case , and says the woman was innocent . Read more  Cafe owners outlaw money kept in ' bras or underwear '  The owners are frustrated with customers storing money in unhygienic places . Photo:Shutterstock  A coffee shop in a small WA town has gone viral after posting a disclaimer in its store which read ' We do not accept $$$ from bras or underpants ' . The in their unmentionables . Read more  New York beauty clinic shocks bottoms into shape  The clinic is offering electric shock treatment with results akin to a sweat-inducing workout . Photo:Shutterstock  New York clinic SB Skin is offering electroshock treatments for people in search of facelifts , toner stomachs and better bottoms . Read more  Google employee lives in his van  The 23-year-old Google employee was sick of paying rent for his San Francisco apartment . Photo:Shutterstock  You would think working for a billion dollar company would pay the bills , but this staff member decided the money going to rent could be better spent elsewhere . Read more  Sumo wrestlers compete in sprint race  These sumo wrestlers are a jacks of all trades . Sumo wrestler Masakatsu Ishiura was on tour in Japan and decided to film his work mates throwing caution to the wind in this tight race . Read more  Hangover clinic coming to Sydney  The New South Wales Opposition is concerned the new clinic could encourage binge drinking .  If litres of water does n't do it in Sydney where certified doctors are said to provide IV drips to ailing revellers . Read more