'Destiny' dev shares insights on microtransactions in game, 25 ...
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/destiny-dev-shares-insights-microtransactions-game-25-million-players-continue-play-1480903

' Destiny ' dev shares insights on microtransactions in game , 25 million players continue to play  Used to be , " Destiny " only saw paid DLCs , which expanded the game 's story and adventure for its Guardians . Since the introduction of the Silver in-game currency , players have also started to see the new addition as a way to customise their players .  The success of the new microtransactions in " Destiny " appears to be something in the long-term plans of publisher Activision . In an exclusive with GameSpot , Activision 's Eric Hirshberg confirmed that " Destiny " fans can look forward to the continuation of this in the future for both paid content .  " I think we 've already shown that DLC and microtransactions can co-exist and that our community is hungry for more great content , " said Hirshberg to GameSpot .  For Activision , the DLC expansions provide major content , locations and activities for players to explore . The new microtransactions are just limited to customisation options , which works for the turn the tide for other freemium players .  The strategy is bound to stay considering its success . But even then , the publisher appear to already have other strategies in mind that can be worked out in the future . For now , the current flow of the game appears to be in top shape .  To date , " Destiny " enjoys 25 million players . In addition , these players even clock in around three hours of gameplay a day , according to GamesRadar . With numerous " Destiny " activities , the expanding lore and new ways to customise characters , developer Bungie 's plans for a long-run of the title is not implausible .  In the meantime , " Destiny " players can enjoy another Armsday once again . This event allows players to order any of the weapons via gunsmith , after which players can also get a combination of perks on the weapons ordered , GameZone reported . The five weapons in this week 's selections include Suros Ari-41 , Hakke Herja-D , Hakke Lyudmila-D , SUROS JLB-47 and Omolon Eirene bounties to help Guardians go up the ranks .