Dwellingup, 3020 Pinjarra-Williams Road - $1.6 million
http://www.communitynews.com.au/realestate/Dwellingup-020-Pinjarra-Williams-Road-$1.6-million/7678510

Dwellingup , 3020 Pinjarra-Williams Road - $1.6 million  AS the mist slowly rises off the surface of the dam at the crack of dawn , a joyous appreciation of being alive sweeps over me .  This pretty much sums up the reality of life at 3020 Pinjarra-Williams Road Dwellingup .  Nestled among state forest , the 12.72ha ( 31.5ac ) property is adorned with vineyards , orchards , dams and a very comfortable , classically styled homestead .  Owner Bill said the original vineyards were planted in the mid-eighties as he described some of the many wonders of the property .  " The winery has never operated commercially , although the fruit from our property was used by a Swan Valley producer to make wine and it was sold from our cellar door , " he said .  " This was prior to our ownership of the property and we have never sold wine .  " We have carefully tended the vines and kept them in prime condition , adhering to organic principals .  " We have also planted I 've been told we are the only growers of these varieties in WA .  " Tannat is reputed to have the greatest health promoting and anti-aging benefits of any wine .  " It has the highest level of polyphenols , such as resveratrol , which are anti-oxidising chemicals that are believed to be highly beneficial for blood vessels and directly contribute to longer life spans .  " We trial planted Gruner Veltliner because we love the taste of the wine it produces and I 'm told it 's the new favourite of sommeliers in all the top restaurants . "  Since owning the property , Bill and his wife Helene had bought all the necessary equipment to produce wine .  " We have produced some wine for our personal use , " he said .  " It 's a hobby/lifestyle-based situation for us , which can easily be converted into a commercially operating business without too much effort . "  Bill said he was still astounded by how fortunate life had been on the property .  " Living on the property has he said .  " It 's a private and relaxed lifestyle , yet always things to choose or amuse .  " At this time of year , blue wrens flit and trill from their homes in the jasmine vines , willie wagtails whistle , chitter and flamenco dance from the rose garden and wild ducks parade their babies from dam to dam .  " Catalpa trees fill the air with their floral perfume , the vines are bursting to life with the promise of a new vintage and silver perch make perfect circles on the dam as they engulf floating insects at sunset while we sit gazing from the veranda at the beautiful vista . "  However , he said the highlight of the day came from the aerial display of the abundant birdlife in the area .  " It 's an aerial ballet . Arriving from above , in what seem like erratic swoops , a scarlet-fanned finale follows as magnificent Red-tailed Black Cockatoos gently alight at the edge of the dam to drink , " he said .  " As the air chills out to solve the troubles of our world ... and realise there are n't any ! "  The homestead spans two stories and is beautifully presented inside and out .  With a true rustic style , it features quality , ageless fittings and fixtures .  The deep rich tones of jarrah give warmth to the home as they line walls and frame windows throughout .  Downstairs is a big dining room that overlooks a formal living room .  The kitchen is big and has ample storage space .  The bedrooms are upstairs along with the bathrooms and they have balcony access .  Each bedroom has mirrored built-in robes .  " This has been a happy place for us , filled with joy from family and friends , " he said .  " There have been fun projects , such as pruning weekends , picking grapes and even making some lovely wine .  " Then at night , flickering lights and laughter from the dams as the children scoop marron and try to stay dry .  " It 's a lovely are living life to the full in every way . "  There simply are not enough pages in this lift-out to do the property justice , so contact the selling agent to arrange a viewing .