Seddio, TJ Club Tab Jamie Williams To Run For Canarsie Assembly ...
http://www.kingscountypolitics.com/seddio-tj-club-tab-jamie-williams-to-run-for-canarsie-assembly-seat/

seddio , tj club tab jamie williams to run for canarsie assembly seat  kings county democratic party chair frank seddio and the powerful thomas jefferson democratic club last night gave their blessing and support to jamie williams to run on the democratic line for the 59th district assembly seat left vacant with the recent election of former assembly member roxanne persaud to the 19th senate district seat .  the district includes canarsie , bergen beach , gerritsen beach and mill basin . williams was persaud 's chief of staff .  chairman frank seddio at the tj club . photo by tsubasa berg  " choosing a candidate is not an easy task . there are many worthy , qualified people , " said seddio . " jamie has been part of the club for ten years , and i have watched her grow . she has an empathy of others and a desire to work for them . "  seddio noted williams has also run a domestic violence prevention program , and received a master 's degree from fordham , all while raising said she was thrilled and overjoyed to have earned the club 's support .  " come to me with your ideas , offer me your advice , treat me like a friend , " she said , adding that in her role as persaud 's chief of staff she has had the great opportunity to both work with persaud and learn about the community .  " public service is an honor , " said williams . " i need you to be there for me , i can not do this by myself , we need each other . as the tj club has taught me , we are a team . "  while williams received the endorsement , it remains unclear if gov . cuomo will call a special election for the seat as she would have to run in the primary again in september -- less than a year away .  while a democrat is all but assured to win in the highly democratic district , williams could face a battle in the primary , particularly if the haitian-american block of voters run a candidate cousin , political operative samuel pierre .