A quick once over before the final good-bye
http://www.smh.com.au/comment/a-quick-once-over-before-the-final-goodbye-20151112-gkxinl.html

a quick once over before the final good-bye  john birmingham  it must feel like one of those dreadful dates at the end of a relationship , when both partners know it 's over , and nobody has really said anything , but everyone has tacitly agreed to start dividing up the old cds and books . nobody would be so gauche as to say anything awful to prince charles and his second wife , not even peter fitzsimons , but it must feel odd , flying all the way around the world to give one 's colony the once over , knowing that soon enough one will be parking the royal yacht here to lower the flag for the last time .  did charles and cammy sip quietly on their pimms and regret not making the trip earlier , when tony abbott would have shown them a much better time than the current republican upstart ? maybe not . they probably get a bit tired of all the fawning and spittle-licking and toned abs , the maximum monarchist , might well have embarrassed them ladythingies . the onion breath , the giant ears flapping with excitement , the repeated tone-deaf invites down to the surf club to get a few laps in -- there 's a reason they only stay for a couple of days at a time , you know .  the highly polished malcolm turnbull would never think of discomforting his guests by continually checking his apple watch and looking surprised whenever he sees they 're still hanging around , but that 's only because it 's tapping him on the wrist , with silent reminders to make sure lucy sees them to the door .  hello or goodbye ? prince charles and camilla , duchess of cornwall , there 's a reason they only stay for a couple of days at a time , you know . photo : getty images  there was no escaping the terrible awkwardness of it all , though . the dozens of kiddies , press-ganged into waving their little plastic flags , the crackle of static electricity from david flint 's trouser legs as he unconsciously rubbed them together like a giant cicada , cover up the creaking of an ancient institution barely able to sustain itself . the royals , when they visit , now recall nothing so much as an ageing musical act which once filled stadiums with roaring crowds and now has to giveaway tickets to get a decent turnout at the rooty hill rsl .  advertisement  still , republicans should n't get too cocky . their british counterparts are no less determined to see off the house of windsor and it 's not impossible to imagine a scenario where liz and the gang are run out of town and turn up here with their suitcases and a packet of duchy of cornwall biscuits looking for a place to bunk down .  " after all , one is your sovereign , you know . "  ---  on the other hand , maybe they 'll drop us first . having said goodbye to so many third world dictators and klepto-thugs who decided they 'd make better heads of state for life , it ca n't be pleasing for her maj to be queen of a mob who 've . you can imagine liz 2 shaking her head over the times and frowning as she dunked her toast soldiers in the breakfast googs , muttering , " i thought we were done with all this " .  more than 100 countries lined up to trash talk her australian colony 's human rights record this week , offering 300 recommendations for how we could do better at looking after refugees , women , indigenous people , the disabled and the gay community . even north korea , a champion abuser of human rights , got to strut the stage , demanding australia " cease the maltreatment of and violence against the refugees , including sexual violence by the officials in detention centres " . indonesia , which is toying with the idea of dumping all of its drug dealers on an island guarded only by crocodiles , recommended we " address asylum seeker and refugee issues in accordance with the bali process and our human rights and humanitarian obligations " . even russia and iran took time off invading and undermining their neighbours to lodge their official appallment about what the criticism of such egregious hypocrites , but not to dismiss the policies which gave them a free kick in the first place . when the worst people in the world feel free to bitchslap your rep , your rep was probably looking pretty shabby to begin with .  ---  not as shabby as the taxi cartel , though . who could have predicted the victorian taxi association 's social media campaign , #yourtaxis , would go so horribly pear-shaped so quickly . ( hint , everyone , especially the brainiacs behind #coalisamazing ) .  the taxi owners ' club seemed to genuinely believe people would flock online to share stories of helpful cabbies who would never take them the long way home .  instead reality mugged the hashtag . the fabulous fake taylor swift account , @swiftonsecurity , pronounced #yourtaxis a " really interesting social media disaster " , with tales of abusive drivers , filthy cars and criminal behaviour up to and including sexual assault .  rachael lonergan ( @rachaelhasideas ) shared her fine memories of " the multiple drivers who drove off after my broken foot unconvincing apparently . " meg watson ( @msmegwatson ) recalled " having to beg the driver to take the short fare to the hospital because my friend needed stitches in her head " .  as glorious as the hashtag catastrophe was , however , it paled next to the association 's response as the train wreck unfolded . they put out a press release , entitled " yourtaxis #epicfail ? not quite , " which tried to argue they had totally meant that to happen , when the entire internet rounded on them like a dingo on crystal meth .  " social media is designed to offer the opportunity to engage directly with the community . yourtaxis has delivered exactly this . "  yes , yes it did .  83 comments  yes there was a certain pathos in charles ' visit . he looked like he was going through the motions . he likes australia , i am sure , but he is fully aware of the massive indifference . the ageing rock star analogy is so apt , except no-one can remember date and time  november 13 , 2015 , 10:14pm  they always look like that , even the queen . quite understandable really , because it must be incredibly boring doing these visits and enduring all the ceremonies and other non-events they have to attend . great privileges but like living in a fish bowl .  commenter  reader  location  sydney  date and time  november 13 , 2015 , 11:15pm  they seem a nice couple . and apparently they were invited to a dinner in canberra to meet prominent celebrity australians . looking forward to learning where they had their cup of tea in perth and what flavour it was .  trying to find an angle to make the tour more interesting , one evening news had film of the royal couple in their bathers hanging around a pool on their day off . or it might just have been mum and dad . same interest factor .  commenter  bernie  location  hv  date and time  november 14 , 2015 , 3:00am  g'day miguel.jb -- it appears no one else has dared to raise it with you . i might as well get straight to the point ; john , your fawning love for the monarchy is clearly blinding your journalist endeavours . this article -- it 's a homage to the monarchy ; full of hyperbole . your duke of edinburgh undies are showing ! ! as you sip tea from your princess diana cup and gaze at your kitchen wall photo montage of royal family occasions - i want you take a deep breath , and solemnly promise to be less kind to all the monarchists when next you put pen to paper .  commenter  howe synnott  location  sydney  date and time  november 14 , 2015 , 7:01am  @miguel:yes its over and even the most fawning forelock tuggers like david flint must know that times up . with the labor party now pro republican and the liberals shedding their aging deeply conservative dinosaurs from the past its clearly time . turnbull , an avowed republican will probably make his move now that the issue is non-partisan .  commenter time  november 14 , 2015 , 7:46am  probably there are few hits to remember but that said , if charles and camilla are such an anachronism and are about to be discarded , why do they attract such crowds wherever they go ?  commenter  ian  location  fremantle  date and time  november 14 , 2015 , 9:39am  awkwardness ? i gave the royals a good wave and i received a good wave back . not sure what the problem is . lovely people and a future king of australia .  commenter  enough is enough  date and time  november 13 , 2015 , 11:20pm  eie lol ... you always nail it ..  commenter  rustynails  location  theburbs  date and time  november 14 , 2015 , 7:02am  they came , they saw ...... and scuttled off back to the palace and forelock tuggers.at our expense of course.where is border farce when you really need them to keep the unwanted out .  commenter  fizzybeer  date and time  november 14 , 2015 ) saying , the royals are relics of the past . timefor this nation to grow up . eie was a big abbott fan who is now just fishand chip paper , yesterday 's new . when the queen falls of her perch this nation willbecome a republic .