Fresh mass fish deaths in Cockburn Sound as probe fails to reveal ...
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-12-02/fresh-mass-cockburn-fish-deaths-as-probe-fails-to-reveal-cause/6992530

The WA Fisheries Minister has admitted authorities are still unsure what caused the death of large numbers of fish in Perth 's south , as officials begin to investigate further fatalities .  The Department of Fisheries confirmed late yesterday it was investigating further deaths in the Cockburn Sound area , in addition to the estimated 1,000 fatalities that were first identified in late November .  The most recent deaths , affecting both blowfish and snapper on both sides of the Garden Island causeway and also near the Point Peron boat ramp , led authorities to visit the area yesterday to collect samples for further testing .  The initial deaths , which affected as many as 14 species , ranging from blowfish to squid , have been subject to testing which Fisheries Minister Ken Baston admitted was yet to find a cause .  " Results to date are not conclusive as to a single definitive cause , " Mr Baston told Parliament .  " We are seeking expert interpretation of the results , but there is nothing obvious that might explain the cause Rick Mazza , who questioned Mr Baston on the deaths in Parliament , said it was vital authorities determined the cause of the problem quickly .  " It 's very disappointing that we have n't got to the bottom of the reason why we 've had these fish deaths , " Mr Mazza said .  " Until we understand what has actually occurred there could be further deaths .  " There have also been concerns raised with me that there could be a knock-on effect to other wildlife that feeds on fish , such as dolphins and seals and also birds . "  Recreational anglers frustrated by slow response  WA 's peak recreational fishing lobby , Recfishwest , has also called for a speedy resolution .  " With all the resources of government we are hopeful answers can be found , " Recfishwest CEO Andrew Roland said .  " Given new reports of fish kills , we 'd hope to see a quicker response from authorities that should result in the collection of fresher samples for testing .  " It is important that account . "  He said the kill was especially distressing to recreational anglers , as Cockburn Sound was an important breeding area for pink snapper .  " The recreational fishing community advocated for greater protection of Pink Snapper spawning aggregations over many years , " he said .  " Fish spawn in the sound at this time of year and it 's currently closed to protect breeding stock .  " We , as a recreational fishing community , are upholding our end of the bargain and this is a massive let down . "  Mr Baston said on current advice , the area was safe for fishing and other recreation and that seafood from the area was safe for human consumption .  But the Department of Fisheries warned people not to swim in areas that look discoloured or murky or where there are large numbers of dead fish .  Perhaps the most disturbing part of the festival of bad behaviour brought to us by Jamie Briggs and his supporters is that the victim blaming and political opportunism is not likely to be over any @ @ @