Hipster web-rag's depiction of Iqaluit irks local youth
http://www.nunatsiaqonline.ca/stories/article/987678_hipster_web-rags_depiction_of_iqaluit_irks_local_youth/

Hipster web-rag 's depiction of Iqaluit irks local youth  " Nunavut teenhood , in a frozen and depressing nutshell "  CHRIS WINDEYER  Angnaluaaq " Tia " Friesen , an 18-year old nursing student from Iqaluit , has started a Facebook group calling on Vice Magazine to pull a web-log story about teenage life in the Nunavut capital . ( PHOTO BY CHRIS WINDEYER )  " What if it was -50C outside , booze and drugs are almost triple what they are in the rest of the country , and a bunch of your friends committed suicide because they got dumped ? " the story reads . " That 's Nunavut teenhood , in a frozen and depressing nutshell . "  The piece also describes the smell of maktaq as " sweet , rotting , flesh-garbage " and claims that kids go snowboarding " in tank tops when it 's -- 35 C and get sunburned . "  Angnaluaaq ' Tia ' Friesen , an 18-year old nursing student at Nunavut Arctic College , called the story " pretty insane . " to Nunavut for some southerners , and while the article has streaks of truth throughout , it 's insulting to imply that all teens ever do on weekends is get wasted .  " I 've never been drunk , " Friesen said . " I 've never been high . "  So Friesen 's started a Facebook group calling on Vice to pull the story . It 's attracted more than 130 members in under a week .  Vice Magazine originally started as a newspaper-style publication in Montreal in the mid 1990s , and later moved to New York City .  Among other things , the magazine has published an " interview " with a piece of pasta , instructional stories on how to perform oral sex and a photo of an old man in purple tights urinating on himself .  Vice has also written about social issues , politics and war in a decidedly offhand style .  Lauren Solski , 19 , who lived in Iqaluit from the age of 11 until she was 17 , said the article is sloppy journalism . The insensitive to Iqaluit 's social problems .  " Vice Magazine ... claims to be lighthearted and not necessarily following the journalistic values , " said Solski , who 's studying journalism at Ryerson University in Toronto . " It just came off the wrong way because it was just treated without any sensitivity whatsoever . "  Solski , along with several other current and former Iqalummiut , is depicted in several photos that run with the story , which appear to have been harvested from Facebook . She 's not pleased with that either .  An email to Vice seeking a comment for this story got no reply . Solski said she 's written emails to several staff at the magazine and has also received no reply .  Friesen said the ultimate solution lies in young Nunavummiut telling their own stories via the arts , making their own movies , journals and books .  " I think Nunavut can slap itself in the face instead of having someone else do it , " she said .  " Maybe this might be a way for us do n't see , help them realize what Nunavut is. "