A slice of life on Pizza Pizza University
http://www.thestar.com/news/insight/2010/03/28/a_slice_of_life_on_pizza_pizza_university.html

until she moved to canada three years ago , khayala karanon had never seen a pizza , let alone scarfed a slice .  until she moved to canada three years ago , khayala karanon had never seen a pizza , let alone scarfed a slice .  today she flips over the stuff and can assemble a medium , three-topping , standard issue pie in two minutes flat . she hopes to be rolling in the dough when she and her husband open a pizza pizza franchise in london , ont. this year .  " we have mcdonald 's back home but i never had pizza there , " says karanon of her native azerbaijan .  " i really love it . "  so how did she rise to the occasion ?  it 's little-known that besides u of t , york and ryerson , toronto has another " university " of sorts that provides what its students figure is a well-rounded education in the life of pie .  sure , it sounds a bit cheesy . but just as mcdonald fast food competitor pizza pizza -- the largest pizza chain in canada -- has ppu in etobicoke , an academic and culinary training centre that boasts 3,500 " graduates " a year .  " i 'm going back to school after 30 years and i 'm loving it , " says suman jairath , who is hitting the bright orange books at ppu with husband chander . together they are opening a franchise in orleans near ottawa after years of running an indian food restaurant and working at the bay .  as they 've learned , pizza is an ordinary snack food for most folks , and many assume that ingredients are tossed on haphazardly , depending on who 's making it . wrong .  there 's meticulous method to this mozzarella madness that keeps franchisees on their toes for six weeks in a red brick building located in an industrial park at kipling ave . and bloor st. w.  it 's equipped with 13 ovens plus food prep stations and a mock restaurant as well as classrooms for lectures and more formal study about all things the key number associated with the franchise is ( 416 ) 967-1111 , thanks to the ubiquitous jingle that has been around since 1975 . ( and if you remember from high school math class , the other number for pi is 3.14 ) .  at pizza u the key sequence of numbers is actually 4-3-2-1 , the formula for the single pepperoni pizza slice you would order at the counter , which always has 10 pieces on it . ( that 's four on the base just above the crust right on down to one at the tip of the slice . )  similarly , a square slice always has five pieces : one in each corner and one in the middle .  a pop quiz that ppu 's director of training ben campoli likes to give students -- whose mornings are filled with classroom work and afternoons are spent in the test kitchen -- goes like this :  " hey guys : how much cheese would you put on a deluxe large classic ? "  the chorus of eager pupils replies : " 8 of mushrooms ? " to which they chirp : " four . " one keener who has clearly been studying the manual chimes in that this ingredient goes on last so that moisture can escape and prevent the pizza from becoming soggy . good point .  " i had no idea there was so much to learn , " says haroon arif , who works at a pizza pizza outlet in scarborough and is training at ppu to become a manager at a new store in keswick this spring .  the students begin their first week of schooling with a history lesson on the restaurant chain , whose first store was at wellesley and parliament back in 1967 . the second week is more hands-on , starting small with rolling , stretching , saucing and cheesing the dough and making garlic sticks and garlic bread . week three is all about making party pizzas , squares , wings , fries and chicken bites and learning how to clean the fryer and the filtration system . week four focuses on the tricky and more time intensive signature pizzas such as six they 're really cookin , ' spending most of their time at the ovens and prep stations and getting tested on their culinary acumen .  they learn the system top to bottom , from handling hazardous material and dealing with h1n1 to how to screw in a light bulb , literally , since special restaurant lighting is ordered from pizza pizza 's central commissary along with all the franchisees ' food and other equipment .  courier wadie youssef , 31 , does n't think it 's a mistake to take over a franchise in montreal amid a struggling economy , although it 's a significant investment .  " people still have to eat . "  a piece of this variety of pizza pizza pie costs from $100,000 to $500,000 depending on the location , sales , condition of the store and its track record of profitability . the fee secures the right to own and operate a franchise in a given territory and the use of the pizza pizza trademarks , trade name , recipes and retail marketing plan .