Don't die from embarrassment
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/national/dont-die-from-embarrassment/article4188759/

somewhere in a small medical room near here , there is even video evidence should this debate end up in court . i am an empty vessel , clean as a whistle , good to go for another few years .  but i have no intention , thank you , of putting my butt up on facebook for all the world to see .  that , however , is what the colorectal cancer association of canada is asking people to do this wednesday in a campaign they are calling " buttmob " that will bring an end , no pun intended , to a solid month of making canadians more aware of what has become the second-leading cause of cancer deaths .  getting people to smile about something as personal as their own rear end is not a bad thing . colon cancer canada uses " we 're behind your behind " as its slogan . virginia gastroenterologist dr. patricia raymond gives comical speeches as " the devine ms butt meddler " to get people to at least open up their minds to opening to jokes about getting a colonoscopy : " are we there yet ? " ; " let me know if you find my dignity " ; " could you write a note for my wife saying that my head is in fact not up there ? "  jokes help get to the seriousness of the situation . some 22,000 canadians will be diagnosed this year with colorectal cancer . more than 9,000 will die from it . yet a stunning 90 per cent of this cancer is curable if caught early enough - and the only way that will happen is through the rather undignified screening process .  this was my third time wearing the charming backless hospital gown and waiting while an assembly line of bums went in for the obligatory scan by **25;55;toolong . it being a different hospital with different procedures , this time included sedation . i do n't recall a thing . it was like being back in the sixties .  my brothers and i get it because there is family history . sister ann - a much-loved fact checker at maclean 's " - died of it at age 50 . her gift to her siblings is that we get checked regularly .  as one brother puts it , " the ' prep ' is much worse than the procedure " - meaning the 24 hours when you dissolve and drink a couple of packets of magic powder , ca n't eat anything and would n't dare venture more than five strides from a toilet .  for obvious reasons , " screening " has long been a tough sell for the medical community . people do , it turns out , die from embarrassment .  with all the bad publicity that hockey has had over heads these past weeks , it is a delight , then , to report a story about bums that truly inspires .  the windsor spitfires , last year 's memorial cup champions , used their march home games to get the message out . the players , including taylor hall , the probable no. 1 nhl draft pick come june , all wore uniforms with a " colon cancer check " crest on the at the end of the campaign .  at breaks in the play , spitfires general manager warren rychel came on the scoreboard , telling the fans to " get checked , " over video showing rychel checking various nhl superstars during his playing days with the los angeles kings .  between periods , local pharmacists had information booths where they provided free the fecal occult blood test kits that allow for a simpler screening to be done in the privacy of one 's own home . a positive test here would call for a full colonoscopy later .  rychel figures the message was hitting the perfect target group : the team 's 5,000 seasons-ticket holders , mostly men aged 40 to early 60s .  " we were aiming for the fan base , " agrees dr. john day , head of the erie st. clair regional cancer centre that worked with cancer care ontario to set up the program with the spitfires . but day also came to the dressing room and talked to the young players about the devastating effects of this cancer , including the it .  " these kids know what tragedy is , " says rychel , referring to the team 's loss of its captain , mickey renaud , who collapsed and died at home two years ago .  " the knowledge those kids get will stay with them the rest of their lives . "  day says the hope is that one day people will be able to talk about getting screened without " turning red " - and he 's hoping that the spitfires ' successful campaign can spread right across junior hockey ranks just as the nhl 's hockey fights cancer program has raised awareness of screening for breast cancer .  as for the 42-year-old rychel , his team 's campaign even reached an unexpected target : himself .