THN.com Blog: Sutters must pay for Calgaryƒ_Ts failures
http://www.thehockeynews.com/articles/32495-THNcom-Blog-Sutters-must-pay-for-Calgaryas-failures.html

thn.com blog : sutters must pay for calgary ? ? ? s failures  brent sutter 's first year behind the calgary bench has been anything but a success . ( photo by gerry thomas/nhli via getty images )  brian costello 2010-03-28 10:10:00  the time has come for the calgary flames to bid adieu to the sutters .  though still mathematically alive to make the playoffs , the fact of the matter is the flames have regressed in giant steps this season and have no business competing for the stanley cup . and for that reason , gm darryl sutter and coach brent sutter must pay the price with their jobs .  expectations were high in calgary this season , mainly because the flames had five solid cornerstones and a defense-oriented coach with a winning resume . captain jarome iginla and goalie miikka kiprusoff are among the best in the business at their positions . and with a defense than included dion phaneuf , jay bouwmeester and robyn regehr -- all among the final 10 or so rearguard candidates for the canadian olympic league .  gm sutter 's task was to supplement the five pillars with serviceable role players and coach sutter 's job was to implement a system that got stronger and more refined as the season progressed . both sutters failed and with a 2010-11 payroll that 's already at $53.4 million , it 's hard to imagine improvement next season .  perhaps gm sutter 's greatest undoing -- not just this season , but since taking the job in 2003-04 -- was not finding the right player to center iginla . craig conroy worked for a while , but was never a long-term solution . daymond langkow had back-to-back 30-goal seasons centering iginla , was signed to a four-year contract worth $4.5 million per season , then bumped to the second line where his production dried up . gm sutter did the phoenix coyotes a favor last season taking underachiever olli jokinen and his $5.25 million contract off their hands -- giving up a first round draft pick as part of the return .  the intention was good , but jokinen never panned out under coach sutter 's york rangers . problem is , the players he got in return , chris higgins and ales kotalik , have scored just three goals in 30 games since . and sadly , offense-challenged kotalik is on the books for $3 million each of the next two years .  it 's tough to fault anyone for the rapid disintegration of phaneuf as a defenseman in calgary . the 24-year-old former norris trophy candidate became totally lost in his own end without the puck and stopped generating much offense -- and did n't respond to coaching . convinced the flames could n't win with the cornerstone system , gm sutter dealt phaneuf to toronto for depth players , which is n't a bad notion , but then he signed matt stajan to a $14 million contract over four seasons and stajan went on to prove he ca n't produce on the top line with iginla and rene bourque ( stajan 's calgary stats prorated over a full season are 13 goals and 51 points ) .  niklas hagman is a serviceable second- or third-liner , but even his production has been calgary ) . jamal mayers is playing well on the energy line and ian white is a marked all-around improvement on phaneuf . sadly , though , the flames have just $3.8 million in cap room next season -- assuming the salary cap stays at $56.8 million -- and six roster spots to fill . those spots include fourth-liners eric nystrom and mayers , two more forwards , a backup goalie and white . keeping white is a priority because of the trade and that 'll cost in the neighborhood of $3 million .  since the influx of new players , the flames have won 10 of 19 games , which is n't enough to make the playoffs any season , unless you factor in that loser third point .  ironically , it 's brent sutter 's failings as a coach that are making his older brother 's managerial moves look bad . the flames clearly have n't bought into coach sutter 's system . perhaps it 's too archaic in today 's transition to aggressive offense , employed by the game 's exciting teams . for sure the 28 shots per game , fifth worst in the league .  since january , the flames have the league 's most anemic offense . and that has to be routed back to coaching . but then , coach sutter has shown a litany of shortcomings , from phaneuf falling off the rails to jokinen not meshing in , to the third-worst offense , the sixth-worst power play , the second-worst faceoff percentage . and aside from white and mayers , the new players are n't making a difference .  what 's worse , the flames may not pick ' til the fourth round in this june 's draft and there 's not a lot of jaw-dropping skill in the development system . only mikael backlund and ryan howse look like second-line skill players .  for those reasons , it 's time for the flames to move past the sutters . fortunately the time is right because steve yzerman is a gm in waiting and ken hitchcock is looking for a coaching job . both men worked well together for team canada at the olympics .  brian costello a regular contributor to thn.com . you can find his blog each weekend .