PETERBIO | A fish called Walter
http://www.mykawartha.com/sports-story/3718831-peterbio-a-fish-called-walter/

peterbio a fish called walter  all the kids will be hoping to snag ' walter ' at this weekend 's greenwing fishing derby  walter the big fish  lance anderson  walter , the big fish all the kids are trying to catch at the annual greenwing fishing derby .  greewing derby 1  lance anderson  victoria beasley , 2 , reacts as walter flips out of his net during the annual release of rainbow trout into the lift lock canal on wednesday ( april 21 ) . the greenwing fishing derby runs this weekend along the canal .  sidebar  walter was named after a trout from a 1981 american drama film called on the golden pond . the movie won several awards including the golden globe award for best motion picture - drama . henry fonda also won an oscar for best actor , while katharine hepburn took home the an oscar for best actress .  what : greenwing fishing weekend  when : april 24 and 25 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily .  where : registration fee for children 15 years old and younger . each additional child in the same family costs $5 at time of registration .  that 's right , the popular big fish that all the kids are hoping to snag during the annual greenwing fishing weekend is a woman .  always has been and always will be .  fact is , female rainbow trout live longer and grow bigger than their male counterparts . according to jennifer penhale , walter 's girth is what sends children into frenzy .  " i do n't think to many kids have the opportunity to get that close and see a big fish like that . i know for my son it 's about the thought and the chance that he can catch something that big , " explains mrs. penhale .  megan , 3 , and kathryn , 6 , joined their mother near lock 19 to watch 5,000 trout be dumped into the trent canal on wednesday ( april 21 ) . about a half-dozen youngsters waited in anticipation to see the top prize at this weekend 's and centre when event co-chair gordon bowley revealed the 10-pound fish to the public .  " he is my favourite fish . he splashed out of the net and dived onto the sidewalk , " said an excited megan .  walter has been the infamous rainbow trout since the inception of the derby -- originally held at the jackson park pond before later moving to the canal . nearly 5,000 anglers will line the canal between the lift lock and the maria street swing bridge to try and bring the trophy fish to shore .  " the biggest difference is she 'll be in a much larger body of water . our set up is quite natural here but she will really enjoy the additional space , " says ms taylor , explaining that walter was one of 2,500 female rainbow trout eggs fertilized in a incubator with the milt from a male rainbow trout . thirty-eight days later walter 's life began . little did she know she would become famous in the eyes of children and adults alike six years later . she received no special , walter was removed from the incubator and placed in a small trough with flowing water when she started to swim . there she lived off her yolk sack for a few weeks before starting her commercial trout diet .  " they start with 54 per cent protein , which is a huge amount compared to other animal feed . probably why walter gets so big , " says ms yaylor , noting the protein comes from fish oil .  as walter grew , the linwood staff moved her to a various sizes off holding tanks where she could swim comfortably .  " at age two they go into the pond for a couple of reasons . it 's heathier on their fins because the pond has a mud bottom and they like being in the natural light , " adds ms taylor .  she says between the ages of two and three are when females are examined to be potential spawners . it 's unknown if this year 's walter was used as spawner but her days of maybe producing a future walter are likely over egg production decreases and their not economically worth keeping as far as producing eggs goes . one of her eggs from the past ( if she was a spawner ) could turn out to be walter one day . a former walter could well have been her mother as well , " says ms taylor , explaining large fish that ca n't produce anymore are used as trophy fish at fishing derbies .  " she was the biggest fish in a pond of about 200 and that 's why she became walter . "