Suspected gunman at pot protest linked to gang
http://www.torontosun.com/news/torontoandgta/2010/04/23/13701906.html

suspected gunman at pot protest linked to gang  a suspected gun-toting man with four court prohibitions from having a firearm and arrested in dundas square during a pot protest is tied to the point blank souljahs gang .  the gang was formed in the regent park area and some of its members have dispersed throughout the city .  the suspect was tackled and disarmed by his intended target and others during the tuesday afternoon gathering at yonge and dundas sts .  toronto police recovered a 22-calibre semi-automatic pistol .  the intended victim , rapper da genius , was whipped with the gun before lunging at the suspect and ripping the pistol out of his hand . the victim 's friend , billy burnz , jumped in to help hold down the suspect .  before genius was attacked , the suspect allegedly said , " i am a g. " the letter could be short for gangster .  a police source said the suspect is known as a member of the point blank souljahs .  burnz said he and genius n't know him .  " oh , wow , " he said when told of the suspect 's affiliation . " yeah , i know of them . "  as for burnz , he said he and his friends have turned to " the positive . "  " i guess that 's what the dude failed to realize , that 's why he came out like that , not knowing that people like ( us ) ... might have been ( intimidated ) in the past , but now we 're in the positive , we ca n't let innocent people get hurt , " burnz said .  " you can look at it as that i 'm at a higher level now in the sense of the things i 'm doing now . "  burnz said he can judge himself by the success he has had in his music .  he said others will slowly have to realize that " no matter how bad or scary a person thinks they are , there 's always somebody scarier or badder , so i guess they blank souljahs apparently splintered from the regent park crew , and have had their share of violent battles , primarily with the project originalz , based in the vanauley walk housing complex in the spadina ave. -dundas st. area .  donovan wynn , 33 , is charged with numerous firearms offences , four counts of possessing a firearm contrary to a prohibition order and threatening death .  in september 2008 , wynn was jailed for nine months after being found guilty in superior court of using a firearm , possession of a pellet gun while prohibited and uttering a death threat for a june 2007 incident . he was sentenced to 37 months but was given 28 months credit for 14 months pre-trial custody .