My mother is a toxic guilt tripper
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/relationships/my-mother-is-a-toxic-guilt-tripper/article1367058/

Group Therapy is a relationship advice column that asks readers to contribute their wisdom . Each week , we offer a problem for you to weigh in on , then publish the most lively responses , with a final word on the matter delivered by our columnist , Lynn Coady .  A reader writes : I 'm moving to the Caribbean with my husband and five-year-old son for the next two winters ( September through May ) . I am 42 and I still have not been able to tell my mother . I know she will find a million reasons why it 's a bad idea . I know that every attempt to persuade her otherwise will be met with : " I know , but I just worry . " And I know that she will spin herself into a debilitating depression that will affect not only me , but my sister and father . Even if I tell her I 'll be there on the next flight if she needs me , it wo n't put my mother at ease . How do Give her tools to cope  It sounds like there are two problems here : a ) mom has some separation issues and b ) you feel that you need her permission to act on your own thoughtful but perhaps controversial decisions . Mom needs to hear that you have made a careful decision and that you are firm on it . You do not need to accept guilt . Focus on her separation issues and the ways that you can support her ( e.g. , setting up e-mail , Skype , buying her phone cards , setting up a trip for her to visit ) .  - Janice Mackenzie , Indian River , Ont .  Follow through  You 've essentially answered your own question , though the hard part is following through . Your mother has some emotional imbalances , and you 've rightly identified that there is no reason she should make you feel guilty . Yet filial bonds have a way of overruling logic , so you have pre-empted her and guilt-tripped yourself by inventing the idea that if you leave , you will cause sure they have long ago developed their own coping strategies . Tell your mother calmly what your plans are and refuse to get into a discussion . That 's the easy part . Now for the hard part : Enjoy your warm winters and ignore her phone calls .  - Jeff Meyes , San Francisco  Bite the bullet  You are 42 , so presumably your mother is at least 60 . That makes you both adults who are  responsible for themselves . If she will truly experience a debilitating depression over this , then her mental state should be addressed ASAP . Speak to your father and sister first , so that everyone is on board with a plan that includes a couple of Caribbean visits . Bite the bullet and tell your mother ; anticipate frostiness and wait for her to sort of come around . Welcome your family when they visit , and enjoy every minute with your husband and son . These will be memories you will all treasure .  - Kathy Christenson , Toronto  The final word  If I did consist of only three : You are 42 .  Now , all that remains is to pad my response like a Grade 12 essay on Poor Parenting Choices in King Lear .  King Lear is the story of a young woman who refuses to let a bullying parent walk all over her . The parent in question promptly goes crazy and dies - something all guilt-ridden children secretly fear will happen should they dare stand up to a parent . Why ? Probably because , like Lear , the guilt-tripping parent often responds to such insubordination with histrionic avowals that he or she will promptly go crazy and die .  So it 's not as if your fear of revealing your plans to your mother is irrational . Heck , manipulative parents have been flogging Lear 's thankless child/serpent 's tooth line since - well , since Shakespeare . Obviously , you 've experienced this toxic behaviour in your mother before and know what she is capable of .  But once again : You are 42 .  You ca n't indulge this foolishness . To indulge it . Lear went around the table demanding each of his daughters kiss his butt and Cordelia responded by telling him , in so many words , to kiss hers . You must , in so many ( loving , patient ) words , tell your mother the same thing . Or as Kathy puts it : Bite the bullet .  Jeff says to ignore your mother 's phone calls during the Caribbean winter months while Janice stops just short of recommending video-conferencing . That 's up to you and your own level of tolerance . The important thing is to let your mother know you wo n't be drawn into emotional head games . Tell her it 's fine and perfectly motherly of her to worry - but you 're going to the Caribbean ! To spiral into depression and make her entire family miserable over your temporary absence is beyond absurd .  Like Lear 's youngest daughter , you have to stand against the absurdity . But the hardest part of taking a stand is the knowledge that your brave action is n't necessarily going to change mother will still , to put a final literary flourish on my essay , go ranting into the storm when she does n't get her way . Let her . You wo n't be able to enjoy full-fledged adulthood until you can .  Lynn Coady is the award-winning author of the novels Strange Heaven and Mean Boy , with another one currently in the oven .  Next week 's question  A reader writes : I 'm divorced , late 40s , deeply in love with a divorced , early 50s man who brings much happiness and laughter to my life . But he was cheated on in the past , and whenever we have an argument it ends up with him following me around ranting and yelling in my face . One evening , after he had too many drinks , he cursed loudly at me when I accidentally stepped on his toe . I did what I always do when the mood changes between us - I become distant and then he starts demanding that I show some love . The night is shot , yet the self . But I need time to shake off the hurt . That 's when he starts yelling . He wants affection but I just want to run , which makes him angrier . How can I defuse his bullying ?  Do you have an answer to this question or your own dilemma ? Weigh in at **29;160;TOOLONG and include your full name and hometown . ( We will not print your name if we publish your personal dilemma. )