Click, click: How the people's credit card was launched
http://www.thestar.com/news/insight/2010/05/28/click_click_how_the_peoples_credit_card_was_launched.html

chargex was the first card aimed at canadian consumers , but it almost never got off the ground . hard to imagine today  " yes , i would say it was a tipping point . i never thought of it that way , but that 's exactly what it was . "  that 's griff thompson , casting his mind all the way back to 1968 when , as research director at advertising agency mccann erickson , he was part of the group charged , if you will , with launching the nation 's first full-service credit card .  chargex .  an edgy , go-go sort of a name sprung from group x , a boutique offshoot of mccann , housed in the lothian mews . the creative types at group x spent a lot of time at the coffee mill there . thinking .  the group 's writer , a guy named george , would get a faraway look in his eyes . " everything was in metaphor , " says dennis bruce , who was art director . " that good , " says griff thompson . the name being chargex . " it sounded like whatever i 'm not going to pay right now i 'm going to charge to my account . "  one of the group 's challenges was this : how to introduce the nation to " the working man 's credit card " as the star would refer to it , as distinct from the businessman 's credit card , american express ?  click-click .  that 's the sound of an imprinter being run across a plastic credit card , pre-magnetic strip , the signature sound of the card 's commercials . " i have this theory about advertising , which is , if you can create a mnemonic device , you 've got a burr in the brain , " says bruce . " it almost never leaves you . "  and , unlike , say , the eaton 's card , or esso -- " happy motoring ! " -- consumers could use their chargex card to purchase everything from antiques to yard goods from a wide array of participating category out of business and putting it in the hands of consumers , " says stu eaton , once mccann 's chairman , now long retired . the name chargex , he points out rightly , " was both original and explanatory . " sharp . in contrast to , say , a name such as visa , a good name for a car , eaton thinks , or maybe a line of diet foods .  back to free money . what was not to love ?  consumers did not love the idea . " people said , look , if you 're going to bring out another card we 're going to cut it up , " bruce recalls . he wonders if debt aversion was part of the reason why . in pre-market surveys , as many as 60 per cent of respondents said they did n't want it .  " usually in my business when you get a 60-per cent resistance , nothing goes anywhere , " says terry o'reilly , ad guy and co-creator of the age of persuasion on cbc radio . " . "  the prognosis was grim . " it 's going to be a flop , was sort of the take we had on it at the time , " says bruce .  four banks were on board , which meant that group x had to wrangle reps from the bank of commerce and the royal and the td and banque canadienne nationale all in one room . the group would rotate , bank to bank to bank , each trying to outdo the other . the wine ! the meals ! egos being what they are , the ranks of the big swinging banks grew and grew until a meeting room had to be reserved at the park plaza hotel . " it got to a point where the meetings would erupt into arguments backwards and forwards , " says bruce . " terribly embarrassing for the clients . "  the initial ad campaign was built from two angles . one : appealing to customers -- " you can furnish the living room . buy a violin . " two : appealing to merchants -- " cancel busy this year . " shoppers newly armed with chargex would be running shopkeepers off their feet -- that was the idea .  debt ? well , the adverts made a delicate suggestion : " cardholders may make small monthly payments if they prefer . " at a 1.5 per cent rate of interest monthly .  click-click ! gold mine !  group x 's television commercials are lost , like much of the story , to " the mists of time " as dennis bruce likes to say .  but that sound . will that be cash or chargex ? click-click ! that stays with us . " that mnemonic was so catchy and sticky , " says terry o'reilly . it burred right into the brain .