Need cash? Off to the pawnbroker
http://www.thestar.com/business/personal_finance/spending_saving/2010/05/28/need_cash_off_to_the_pawnbroker.html

" please take a number off the wall and step into the booth , " advises a sign near the back of mctamney 's , the historic church st. pawnbrokers .  the place does n't smell like an old shoe , nor does it emit any dickensian musk , though mctamney 's has been at this location since 1916 , and before that was around the corner on adelaide st. one hundred and fifty years young this year , and still a family business .  the buy-and-sell business . there 's that .  and the pawnbroker business .  " you have to start with your price , " says floreen shortt , who runs mctamney 's with her husband , christopher . there 's a photograph of james mctamney , christopher 's great-grandfather , above her desk . mctamney 's daughter , olga , married maurice shortt . everyone called him m. j. " he was going to wrap the books up and sell it , " says floreen of m. j. 's plan to wind up the business . " but he have been in charge every since .  it seems such an anachronism , pawn brokerage . a dying trade . but in his just-released broke usa , gary rivlin writes that the pawnshop business -- part of what he calls poverty inc. -- in the u.s. is booming as the citizenry struggles under the weight of historic financial woes .  flo shortt would n't care for the poverty characterization . " we 've always said this is a smart financier 's way to do business , " she says .  enter the pawn wicket . name your price .  the negotiation begins .  " rolexes are coming through constantly , " she says , sitting in her office in a white pant suit and a tangerine top , her hair short and frosted . " sometimes it 's just for tuition for university . "  a watch worth 10 grand might get you a $1,000 loan . maybe two thou . " ideally you receive a fairly minimal amount . . . we want you to come back for it . "  the rate the pawnbroker is committed to keep the item for a year -- they ca n't sell it prior to that point . between 85 and 90 per cent of customers come back for their goods .  so how 's business ?  " when there was a dip in the markets we did have a rush , " flo says . " but people kind of hung tight for a while to see what was going to happen . now things are getting a little tighter and they 're having to borrow again . the banks are tightening up on their lending , so you have to figure out another way ( to borrow ) . "  many years ago flo herself was turned down for a bank loan . she never forgot it . " i said to the bank manager , ' thank you very much . you 're the reason i 'm still in business . ' "  who 's her customer ? " if anything we 're seeing a shift to the middle-aged group , higher income . . . they seem to be "  there are four clients at the wickets . a guy has just sprung his bicycle from pawn . the shop is bright and clean and polished .  should you forget to retrieve your ping clubs at the start of the season ? " we like the good stuff , obviously . if we 're going to be left with it , that 's what we want to be able to sell . "