Building the football Blues
http://www.timminspress.com/2010/05/28/building-the-football-blues

building the football blues  a large group of students at timmins high &amp; vocational school certainly are .  the blues football program is currently in the middle of a stretch of practices even though the start of the next season is n't until september .  on friday , players on both the junior and senior teams took to the field for their second practice . having had a practice on tuesday cancelled because of the heat , and another on thursday because of lightning , the players appeared to have no beefs with spending extra time at school with the weekend ahead of them .  and that 's exactly the mindset andrew schroeder wants out of timmins high when it comes to football . not only with the players , but also with the student body and faculty .  " it 's more than the team , it 's the program that we 're trying to build and that 's spread throughout the school , " said schroeder , the newest member of the blues coaching staff .  " the culture the school gets out and everyone 's behind it . there 's the hockey culture here that 's very strong , but we 're not trying to compete with that or take away from that , we 're just trying to copy some of that enthusiasm and bring it here with what i know from southern football . "  with experience playing at the high school , university and semi-pro levels , schroeder has seen how the sport has brought people together . in his native hamilton , seemingly everyone was behind his football team when he was a high school player . his squad even got to play at ivor wynne stadium , the home of the cfl 's tiger cats .  " we sometimes take that for granted , " schroeder said . " that was just the level of expectation when i was in high school , that 's just the way it was . not that i 'm trying to copy it or mimic it , i 'm just trying to bring a little of that spirit here . "  the timmins high football got their first taste of regular-season action in september 2007 after a hiatus of more than 30 years .  a glaring problem in trying to get re-established is that they play in the nipissing district association . last season , the blues did n't have the luxury of hosting a game and had to travel to north bay for each of their tilts . to do that and be competitive is a " daunting task , " schroeder said .  " in college , our longest road trip was four hours , " said the former mcmaster university centre . " we 're asking high school kids to do what professionals and college students do n't necessarily have to do . "  thrown in the fact that timmins high is the only school in the city with a football program makes things even more challenging .  at the same time , being the only team around has its perks . prospective players around timmins are attracted to attending the school to be part of the gridiron gang . there have been a few transfers from roland michener into it and they want to come to ( timmins high ) because we 're the only football team in the city , " schroeder said . " once that reputation gets out there , that this is a fun thing to do for kids at this age ... they 'll want to come here and be part of the football culture . "  in trying to create excitement for football , the program has had a number of different events , including an assembly and the april fool 's day bowl . one goal the coaching staff is hoping to meet with such occasions is getting more students to join the football team . that would also help to improve the product on the field , schroeder said .  " i would like to make us more competitive , " he said . " i 'm not going to say we 're going to win and be perfect , but i 'd like the point gaps in the games to be a lot better and field more players . it 's not like basketball where you need 11 are 12 on offence , 12 on defence and 12 on special teams . adding that up , you need a small army out there . "  coach craig beda said that a number of players that were on the junior team last season will make the jump up to the senior squad , leaving a number of vacancies . by holding practices in may and june , the coaches are able to gauge how large the junior and senior squads will be .  " the seniors have been working out all year and they 're anxious to hit before they start up again in september , " beda added . " for some of the grade 9s that did n't play last year , it 's introducing them to the sport , and hopefully we have them back in september . "  if nothing else , schroeder said the players will benefit by working on their team skills .  " it 's a very team-oriented sport , " he said . " it 's also , believe it or not with all the contact , a of the rules , your team is very heavily penalized , more so than any other sport . so it really encourages a lot of positive play within the rules . it 's the positivity that will lead to the 100% buy-in and growing the football culture . "