Ethics crusader Duff Conacher leaving Democracy Watch
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/ethics-crusader-duff-conacher-leaving-democracy-watch/article1386962/

canadian ethics crusader duff conacher is calling it quits as the head of democracy watch after 17 years of court challenges , research papers and pithy quotes for the media all in the name of making mps , cabinet ministers and corporations more accountable .  a former ralph nader 's raider who drew inspiration from the u.s. consumer advocate as an intern in the 1980s , mr. conacher has carved out a unique niche in ottawa since he formed democracy watch in 1993 with seed money from the proceeds of a book he and mr. nader co-wrote .  no one else looks for loopholes and studies the details of federal ethics rules quite like he does , meaning that after mr. conacher departs from the national scene , canadians could be in the dark as to which mps , ministers or lobbyists may be running afoul of guidelines governing their conduct .  he will stay on for a few more months until he finds a replacement , but the challenge of raising money for the organization means there is no guarantee that it can years of very non-profit work , " said mr. conacher , 46 , a university of toronto law school graduate . " hopefully , if all goes well , it can continue . then i 'll stay on the board and have someone else do what i 'm doing . "  never associated with a political party , mr. conacher said he may one day run for office , but not any time soon . his grandfather lionel was a two-term liberal mp , nhl star and cfl hall of famer .  he has n't decided what he will do next , but said he simply felt it was time to do something else . looking back , he said , changes to party donation rules , ethics and lobbying rules and banking regulations were the organization 's biggest accomplishments .  " overall , we 've played a big part in winning more than 100 changes to federal law in the areas of government accountability and bank accountability , " he said .  before elections canada began posting campaign donations online , mr. conacher 's group would canada 's ottawa head office , scanning corporate donations for signs of conflicts of interest .  helped in part by the sponsorship scandal , democracy watch 's long-standing criticism of corporate donations eventually won out in ottawa when prime minister jean chr ? tien imposed new limits in 2004 and prime minister stephen harper banned corporate and union donations entirely in 2006 .  rejecting government funding , mr. conacher 's small operation is essentially a one man show operating out of a downtown ottawa office that runs on volunteers and an annual budget of about $60,000 .  " there 's not too many people in civil society who are that selfless and work that tirelessly for no financial gain , " said ndp mp pat martin , who has often taken up many of the issues mr. conacher raised . " it 's a real loss and a real disappointment , but the guy deserves a medal . ... the guy did a great deal with very little and a very marginal little organization that punched way above its weight . "  mr. conacher was relentless in , howard wilson , repeatedly calling him a " lapdog " who lacked independence . reached on friday , mr. wilson said mr. conacher deserves credit for his indefatigable campaign for an independent ethics commissioner .  " he certainly was a force pushing the government to enshrine the position in legislation so that the person could not be removed except for cause , " mr. wilson recalled . " he was extraordinarily persistent . "