Family, friends and fellow hockey players remember Bob Probert as ...
http://www.thehockeynews.com/articles/34447-Family-friends-and-fellow-hockey-players-remember-Bob-Probert-as-gentle-giant.html

fans line the streets as bob probert 's casket arrives at windsor christian fellowship church in windsor , ontario july 9 , 2010 as the detroit red wings enforcer is laid to rest after his sudden death earlier this week at the age of 45 . the canadian press/geoff robins  2010-07-09 04:09:00  windsor , ont. - family , friends and fellow hockey players paid tribute to bob probert on friday , remembering the former nhl tough guy as a gentle giant with a big heart .  about a thousand mourners gathered at the windsor christian fellowship church to say goodbye to one of the most feared fighters in nhl history .  probert , who played for the detroit red wings and chicago blackhawks between 1985 and 2002 , died monday after collapsing with chest pains during a family boat trip on lake st. clair . he was 45 .  former red wings captain steve yzerman remembered his former teammate in a eulogy .  " he had nicknames for everyone and lit up the dressing room , airplane and bus with his the rink , he had a kind heart and was a gentle giant . "  yzerman was joined at the funeral by many other members of the hockey community , including red wings owners mike and marian illitch , detroit general manager ken holland and former players dino ciccarelli , doug gilmour , stu grimson , darren mccarty , joey kocur , tie domi and gerard gallant .  despite his off-ice struggles with drugs and alcohol , probert had a significant impact on the game , said former detroit assistant coach colin campbell .  " we had many challenges with bob early in his career , " said campbell , who shared the podium with yzerman . " but he battled through them all to become one of the biggest impact players in the nhl .  " i always used to think that i was helping bob , but looking back now i realize that he was giving me life lessons . "  during his days on the ice , probert never shied away from a fight . he was part of many memorable battles , shoulder pads had fallen to the ice . the list of his fighting partners reads like a who 's who of nhl tough guys : grimson , domi , marty mcsorley , basil mcrae and donald brashear .  domi was visibly moved following the service .  " everyone thought that bob and i hated each other , but we had a great mutual respect , " said domi , a native of nearby belle river . " i always loved playing against bob because he always competed so hard . "  but yzerman said probert was more than just a tough guy .  " bob was one of the single biggest reasons for the rebirth of the detroit red wings back in the 1980s , " he said . " bob probert was not just a one-dimensional hockey player . yes , he had fists of stone , but he also had a soft scoring touch . "  a lengthy procession from the families first funeral home on the city 's far east side to the church in the south end led by 54 motorcyclists , tribute befitting of probert , who was an avid motorcycle rider . probert 's casket was transported to and from the church in a motorcycle side car .  hundreds of fans also lined the streets during the procession to pay their respects .  " i can tell you with absolute certainty that bob did not know how much he was loved , " probert 's father-in-law dan parkinson said during a eulogy . " the response of the city of windsor today has been overwhelming . to see so many people lining the street to pay their respects to bob is very special . "  parkinson , a retired windsor police officer , then paused for a moment before making light of probert 's numerous brushes with the law .  " bob was more fascinated with my career than i was with his , " he said as the audience broke out into laughter . " he took every opportunity to interact with members of law enforcement agencies both in windsor and detroit . "  probert is survived by his wife dani and his four children  one of the most touching moments of the service came from probert 's daughters .  " on july 5 , 2010 , my father was called to heaven , " said tierney . " heaven will never be the same . "  " i had the goofiest , most embarrassing dad ever , " brogan said during the service . " but he was my dad , and i will always love him . "