Portrait of an Addict as a Young Man: a Q&amp;A with Bill Clegg
http://news.nationalpost.com/afterword/portrait-of-an-addict-as-a-young-man-a-qa-with-bill-clegg

portrait of an addict as a young man : a q&amp;a with bill clegg  it was n't a perfect life , but it was a good one . bill clegg was a respected literary agent , co-owner of burnes &amp; clegg , a boutique agency which represented such authors as nicole krauss . he was a recovering addict -- meth , cocaine , pot , crack -- but outwardly , at least , his life seemed to be in order : a loving boyfriend , a thriving business , the support and friendship of many in new york 's literary scene . little by little , things began to fall apart , until one day , in early 2005 , he realized he was about to lose control . he skipped a flight to berlin to meet his boyfriend at the berlin film festival and e-mailed his partner , sarah burnes , telling her " to do what she needs to do , that he 's relapsed and that she protect herself in whatever way is necessary . " what followed was a months-long crack binge  clegg 's harrowing new memoir , portrait of an addict as a young man , is one of the most-discussed books in publishing circles this summer . chronicling clegg 's long battle with alcohol-and-crack addiction , it is a bleak reminder of how easy it is to lose it all .  he recently traded e-mails with the afterword .  q : no offense , but you do n't come off as a good guy in much of this book . did you have any hesitation in putting it all on the page ? was there anything you held back ?  no offense taken . i had no intention of trying to portray myself as an appealing character . the point of the book was to show , frankly , candidly and with as much detail as i could muster , the experience of active addiction and alcoholism . and the experience is not attractive and not pleasant -- for the addict and for the people in his or her life .  what 's been the reaction from those people since the book came out ?  family , noah , the clients who i work with again , my friends -- at least as they 've expressed it to me , have been supportive . i do n't know the reactions or feelings of those who are not in my life now as a result of my drug use .  looking back now , are you surprised you survived ?  i 'm surprised that i survived and amazed that , after , i was able to get sober and stay sober this long . it is absolutely a cliche i would have scoffed at once upon a time : but every day is genuinely a miracle .  speaking of clich ? s , how did you ensure this book was fresh , and not just another " addiction memoir " ?  i wrote it privately , honestly and without thinking of other eyes on it . and i tried not to make myself a hero or justify , excuse or even explain my use . i did n't think of other memoirs and i did n't deliberately attempt to make it different from  at what point did you tell friends and family you were writing this ?  my sister and my closest friends knew about six months before we submitted the pages to publishers . at that point i still was n't sure . i wanted their feedback about the idea of my writing a book about that time and i also wanted the frank , no-holds-barred reaction to the 130 or so pages i wrote before moving forward . so on some level i did n't make the decision alone . it had to be written , i did n't feel like i had a choice once it began , but to have it published was something else altogether .  you did n't feel like you had a choice once you began ? that 's remarkably close to the language you use in the book to describe drug use . was writing this book an addiction ?  no , not like an addiction where there is no light , no hope , no creation but something closer to a being given something to deliver somewhere , something that feels go and how you get there is like working through a complicated riddle -- frustrating , thrilling , destinations almost coming into view , dead ends everywhere , eventual answers , surprising arrivals .  i wanted to get into some more specifics , namely the penneys , who come to represent paranoia . was this something you 'd previously experienced -- or experienced again , when you relapsed -- or was this unique to this binge ? talk about revisiting those delusional feelings for the purposes of the book .  i had begun -- in the last few years of smoking crack -- to become increasingly paranoid . every night would end with me squinting through the peephole of whatever apartment or hotel i was in , getting on my knees and looking under the door for the shadows of possible cops , dea agents , etc . but until that period of two months there had never been such a sustained , full-blown and intricate paranoid state . one that persisted regardless of where i was -- indoors , on the streets , in airports , airplanes , use of dialogue . specifically , the fact that there 's hardly any quotation marks . was that your way of calling b.s. on memoirs where the authors seems to have a perfect memory , or did it just suit the story ?  hmmm . i prefer how it reads without quotation marks which reflects how words said surface in memory -- organically , instantly -- more accurately then when they are cordoned off by commas and quotation marks . i would have liked to go without italics even but the publisher was not so keen .  you mentioned noah a little while ago . for me , the book 's most tragic -- and perhaps even beautiful -- moment occurs in what i 'll just call " that " scene . i 'm still not sure if it was the ultimate betrayal or the ultimate display of love . looking back , how do you feel about that moment . and , since you said he 's still in your life , may i ask if you 're together ?  i look at that moment similarly and my own actions it serves as one of the most extreme examples of where my addiction took me : to a place utterly without care or concern for anyone or anything but the satisfaction of my own desires . there was an enormous amount being played out psychologically but what matters to me most in that remembering that experience is that on drugs i was capable of betraying the person i loved the most so brazenly , so horribly .  we got back together for a year . it followed the year that i spent getting sober , not working , separate from much of my former life . we had no contact during that time . it was one of the most painful experiences of my life . and then he heard i 'd gone back to work , was doing well and he invited me to dinner . he asked me then if we could spend the rest of our lives together now and i said i hoped so , that aside from staying sober it was what i wanted most . what we discovered was that our . what we thought had been tearing us apart was precisely the thing holding us together for so long . we parted as friends and have become like family .  you 're working as a literary agent once again -- i guess you 've been at william morris for a few years . how difficult has it been navigating the industry this second time around ? i understand you 've since reunited with some of your authors , but i imagine others still hold grudges . and i have to ask , what would you say to sarah if given the chance ? do you still regret the way that partnership ended ?  coming back to work was a lucky , frightening-at-first , slow process . there were many relationships -- editors , publishers , writers , friends , new colleagues -- whose trust i slowly regained . there are some who do not and may never trust me . i absolutely respect the decisions of those people or just chosen not to work with me or be in their life . anything i 'd say to them -- -- i 've said or will say privately , not in a newspaper or any other public forum .  i understand you 're at work on another book ; can you tell us what it 's about ?  it 's called 90 days . achieving 90 days of consecutive sobriety is a milestone used in many recovery programs . it was the most difficult and most amazing period of my life and the book will give a close chronicle of that period and hopefully illuminate the changes i needed to make in my life and the colossal shift that needed to occur in me to go 90 days without a drink or a drug , and which led to my being able to stay sober now for over five years .  what do you want people to take away from the book ?  when i think of the people i want to read the book most i think of addicts and alcoholics who are , as i did , struggling alone , ashamed and still convinced they can get a handle on their use . i 'd that what seems like the most unique strife is in fact one shared by many and , most importantly , that drugs and alcohol are not manageable . it 's not a fight that can be won or figured out . that in seeing how i tried , again and again , to control how much i used , when i 'd come home , what i 'd do , and failed each time . that the amounts and frequencies increased and that eventually i cared for nothing else but using . if anyone recognizes themselves in any aspect of my story -- the behavior , the feelings -- and is encouraged to step off , get help and avoid where i went with drugs and alcohol , having the book published will have been worth it to me.