The best of Caribana cuisine
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/toronto/the-best-of-caribana-cuisine/article1386911/

caribana 's crowds do n't just come for the beats and the glittery , shaking booties . if anything 's worth lining up for on a hot day , it 's the authentic caribbean cuisine , prized for the home-cooked flavours that translate into excellent street nosh . whether you 're at the official parade or a guerrilla-style blocko , go beyond the standard beef patties - here 's our guide to the delicacies you wo n't want to miss , and where to get them . avoid filling up on a dinner-sized portion of anything - you 'll want to save room for sampling .  dish : roti  national origin : west indies  why you want it : toronto has an ultra-competitive roti scene , with various east and west indian and jamaican restaurants vying for the crown , but the best of this flatbread-wrapped curry stew is always the kind grandma makes . the key is in the hand-rolled dough : " the skin should be soft . you should n't have to pull it with your teeth , " says sheila lovers are divided into two camps - those who order it boneless , and those who want the bones kept in . the latter is the more " authentic , " admits famous recipe owner kevin mohammed , who brings his special mango-tamarind chutney and his 20-inch cast-iron pot in from hamilton every year to feed hungry revellers by the parade on lake shore and at several other events . " the flavour is so much better with the bones , but you have to use your fingers , " he says . " it gets messy . "  dish : jerk chicken  national origin : jamaica  why you want it : recipes vary , but the flavour relies on two key ingredients : allspice and nostril-singeing scotch bonnet peppers . look out for the kind cooked over charcoal in an oil drum : " that 's about as authentic as you can get , " says carl cassell , co-owner of harlem restaurant , who heads up to the vendors at eglinton and oakwood for a fix year-round .  dish : fish cutters  national origin , former chef at amuse-bouche , gets nostalgic for his homeland when he talks about flying fish cutters - the bajan word for sandwiches in salt-bread buns . " you rub the fish with a mix of bajan seasoning , green onions , lime juice , thyme and oregano , bread it , and fry it , " he says . " it 's really , really tasty . " get it with roasted corn and lots of rum , of course .  dish : oxtail stew  national origin : jamaica  why you want it : off-cuts may not be your thing , but this is an island dinner staple . beef tail , a bony , gelatinous cut of meat , is slow-cooked over several hours and melts into buttery , tender chunks . every family 's recipe is top secret . allette betton of matchless catering , a popular wedding caterer and caribana favourite , says she uses a signature mix of six different spices , but do n't ask her what 's in it . " if i told you , i 'd have to doubles  national origin : west indies  why you want it : cheap , filling and hot , this is the ultimate trini street dish , a sort of chickpea sandwich made from curried channa between two pieces of fried dough , hence the name . the bana - the bread - should n't actually be bready at all , but spongy , pillowy and chewy , yet structurally sound enough to contain the filling . toppings can include tamarind , hot pepper sauce or fresh cucumber , but bonus points if you get shado beni chutney , made from a cilantro-like caribbean herb . traditionally eaten for breakfast , doubles are often gobbled down as a late-night calorie hit ( or any time in between ) .  why you want it : this furry-sounding concoction is actually a beverage made from pur ? ed sea algae , mixed with milk and flavoured with vanilla , strawberry or peanut butter . get it fresh or canned : it 's famous for its supposed aphrodisiac qualities ( the brand name big bamboo is a giveaway ) . it 's said "  dish : fresh coconut  national origin : all over the caribbean  why you want it : vendors might charge a pretty penny to stick a straw into a nut , but it 's cheaper than a plane ticket to the islands . the sweet juice of young green coconuts is full of electrolytes - ideal after a long day of jump-up - and some sellers hack open the nut with a machete so you can scoop out the jelly inside .  where to get it  whet your appetite at the official launch party at yonge-dundas square ( thursday , 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. , free ) . but street food central is undoubtedly the parade route , which starts at exhibition place and heads west on lake shore blvd . ( july 31 , 10 a.m. to 6 p.m . ) . bypass the big chains and pizza vendors and head to lake shore near jameson . " that 's where most of the mom-'n ' -pop booths are , " says caribana publicist stephen weir . they 're your best bet for authentic , where vendors will set up inside and outside lamport stadium for the king and queen show ( july 29 , 7 p.m. , $30 , 1151 king st. w. ) . the party rages on there for the post-parade f ? te ( july 31 , 6:30 p.m. $25 ) .