Energy drinks pose serious health risk to kids: Canadian medical ...
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/life/health-and-fitness/energy-drinks-pose-serious-health-risk-to-kids-canadian-medical-journal/article566173/

a critical editorial published by canada 's leading medical journal is the latest move a mounting effort to convince the federal government to crack down on the sale of caffeinated energy drinks to minors .  energy drinks that contain high amounts of caffeine - some more than five times the amount in a can of cola , or nearly double the amount in a cup of brewed coffee - can pose serious health risks to children and adolescents and require stronger warning labels , according to the canadian medical association journal 's editorial .  caffeine content in common foods and drinks  " it is time for the federal minister of health to be awakened and alerted to concerns about energy drinks sold to children , " states the editorial , written by noni macdonald , section editor of population and public health at cmaj , matthew stanbrook , cmaj 's deputy editor , scientific , and editor-in-chief paul h ? bert .  " strict regulations are required if business practices and consumer trends are not curbed . "  the editorial comes as urging action .  the medical society of prince edward island has been pushing for the province to restrict the sale of caffeinated energy drinks to young people .  the house of commons health committee has also been investigating the use of caffeine in energy drinks and other carbonated beverages . in june , it heard from a man named james shepherd who said his 15-year-old son died from an unexplained arrhythmia ( irregular heartbeat ) in 2008 after he had consumed a red bull energy drink . he said he believes the drink contributed to his son 's death .  chris turner , health canada 's director-general of the marketed health products directorate , said the department has received several dozen reports of adverse reactions linked to energy drinks , and that 15 of them were cardiac events .  red bull is one well known example of a caffeinated energy drink . but as the market has exploded in recent years , a growing number of products that deliver high levels of caffeine are available .  unlike cola drinks or similar carbonated beverages , energy drinks instance , a 250-ml bottle of coca-cola contains 26 milligrams of caffeine , according to the company 's web site . but a 75-ml bottle of rockstar " energy shot " contains 200 mg of caffeine . a 355-ml can of red bull contains 113.6 mg of caffeine .  health canada says children between 10 and 12 should not consume more than 85 mg of caffeine a day ( children 4 to 6 should not exceed 45 mg , while those 7 to 9 should not exceed 62.5 mg ) . healthy adults should n't consume more than 400 mg a day , the department says .  it does n't have specific limits for teens because it says there is " insufficient data , " but recommends caffeine consumption for that group not exceed 2.5 mg per kilogram of body weight .  excessive caffeine consumption can lead to irritability , loss of sleep or nervousness . but there is also concern that its stimulating effects can cause rapid heat rate , an abnormal rhythm or other problems that could have serious health consequences .  one of the is that makers of energy drinks regularly target young consumers through event sponsorships and promotional materials .  health experts are also concerned by the fact many young people may mix energy drinks with alcohol , a potentially dangerous combination because the stimulating effects of caffeine can allow an individual to drink more over a longer period of time , which could lead to alcohol poisoning or risky behaviour .  caffeinated energy drinks are sold as natural health products in canada . they must undergo a review to determine they are safe and effective and those that are approved have a licence number printed on their label , according to health canada spokesman gary holub .  but since there is a major backlog of products to be reviewed and approved by health canada 's natural health products directorate , the government has allowed many to go on sale while waiting for approval . that could mean some energy drinks and other natural health products on the market have never been reviewed for efficacy or safety .  but mr. holub suggested some energy drinks could represent a section of wrote in an e-mail that health canada is " reviewing the latest information and safety data on energy drinks and reassessing the labelling requirements for these products . "  red bull and other companies that sell caffeinated energy drinks did not respond to requests for comment .  refreshments canada , an industry association representing beverage makers , issued a statement saying companies that sell caffeinated energy drinks are responsible and do n't engage in marketing campaigns aimed at children . it states that energy drink labels clearly indicate the products should not be consumed by children and that the products have been approved for sale in more than 100 countries .  it also sent a letter to dr. h ? bert stating the cmaj 's editorial wrongly insinuates that energy drink makers target youth or are unregulated .  " energy drinks are intended for adults and clearly indicate on the label that this category of beverage is not recommended for children , pregnant or breastfeeding women and people who are sensitive to caffeine , " refreshments canada president justin sherwood said in the letter .