Teams capture 'spirit of this tournament'
http://www.woodstocksentinelreview.com/2010/07/26/teams-capture-spirit-of-this-tournament

there was nothing unusual about brian paton 's speech . the former canadian national fastball star from woodstock addressed players and fans during friday 's opening ceremonies at the seventh annual gord marshall memorial tournament .  afterwards , though , paton removed his jersey , signed it and donated it to the tourney 's silent auction . it was a selfless gesture to raise funds for cancer in memory of marshall , who succumbed to the disease in 2003 .  " that 's the spirit of this tournament , " chairman brad hallock said .  the tournament was initially a fundraiser for the innerkip ladies ' fastball team . in 2006 , the umpires were asked to run the event and decided to use it not only as a means to showcase women 's fastball , but to also raise money for charity .  " it 's taken a different focus , " hallock said saturday afternoon .  since 2006 , the tournament has become a staple for area women 's fastball teams . more importantly , it has raised over $40,000 . that total will likely approach $60,000 after this weekend .  " it 's the secret of the success -- the volunteers and players who contribute , " hallock said . " the umpires do their thing on the field . it 's the town of innerkip that supports it . "  " that 's a real indication of how teams and the community support it , " hallock said . " it 's a case of everyone giving back . "  the hamilton pontiacs led by example , donating over $4,300 and challenging other teams to donate any winnings back to the tournament .  " teams are good about it , " hallock said . " they 've been here before and they know what we are doing . "  the aw milverton jrs. have competed in innerkip the last five years , winning the tier 2 title in 2007 and 2009 .  " being able to bring out all these teams and people together for a long weekend to support such a worthy cause has touched all of us in one form or " parsons said . " the innerkip umpires and volunteers put on a great tournament each year and it is hard for us not to join in on the festivities each year and support ( them ) . "  oxford county teams were well represented . woodstock mike 's electric is one of many teams that have participated each year .  " it 's an amazing tournament to play in , probably one of the best in ontario , " mike 's player janine morrison said . " it 's a good tournament , but it always rains . "  rain wreaked havoc with games friday and saturday as thunderstorms soaked the fields and caused delays . the results of the tournament 's championship games were not available at press time .  marshall was a local farmer who was actively involved in the sporting community as an elite men 's intermediate fastball catcher with the innerkip eagles for over two decades , as coach and mentor to the innerkip ladies ' fastball team , as well as an umpire with the local association .