FP Tech Desk Startup Spotlight: Wattpad's quest to become the ...
http://business.financialpost.com/fp-tech-desk/fp-tech-desk-startup-spotlight-wattpads-quest-to-become-the-youtube-of-e-books

Allen Lau is thrilled the rest of the technology world finally caught up .  It was the fall of 2006 , and Mr. Lau was busy running a small Toronto development studio that specialized in building games and other software applications for cellphones , when he heard the news that Google Inc. had decided to shell out a whopping US$1.65-billion for YouTube , a Website where anyone could post their own videos .  The year before , he 'd watched as Yahoo Inc. scooped up a Canadian Website , Flickr.com , where users could upload their own photos . That deal was estimated to be worth about $15-million .  He soon realized there just might be something to this whole " user-generated content " thing .  But with video and photos off the table , and with MySpace providing a home for musicians looking to cultivate an online fan space , Mr. Lau went looking for a media that was lacking an online hub where users could upload their creations and reach out to the potentially vast audiences of the World Wide Web , and e-books at that time were a very nascent market , " Mr. Lau said in an interview .  " It was pre-Kindle , before the iPhone even existed , we saw the opportunity to do something pretty drastic and kind of disruptive and help the little guys out to get the word out . "  Unfortunately for Mr. Lau , his partner Ivan Yuen and their fledgling startup -- Wattpad -- in 2006 the world was n't quite ready for an e-book platform where aspiring authors could write short stories , poems and fan fiction and publish them to the Web so that other users could read their creations on their PC or their cellphone .  Today , thanks to gadgets like Amazon.com Inc. ' s Kindle , Apple Inc. ' s iPad and the rapid proliferation of application-enabled smartphones with screens more suitable for reading text , digital books are being pushed into the spotlight , and Wattpad is well on its way to becoming the YouTube of e-books .  " That YouTube deal gave us a lot of inspiration for the business , , the user-generated content space was very hot . It 's still very hot . Even today , the bulk of the content on the Internet is generated by the end user , rather than professional content producers , no offense to the National Post . If you look at all the studies , there are more and more people becoming creators of content . "  Today , there are more than 500,000 stories and poems on Wattpad , with more than 50,000 more being added every month . The top stories on the site are often read by more than a million users and the company 's applications -- available for just about every platform , from sophisticated Android and BlackBerry smartphones to more traditional Java-based devices -- are downloaded more than a million times each month , Mr. Lau said .  Among the most active members of the Wattpad community are teenagers , who write everything from vampire fiction to poetry . Like YouTube , which has spawned online celebrities and mini-communities , Wattpad has its own rising stars and niche collectives .  Several of the and Mr. Lau said the site is receiving more attention from the physical publishing industry as it looks to identify new talent with built in fan bases . Wattpad recently signed an agreement with MacMillan Publishers to promote some of the company 's Hugo Award nominees .  As well , Mr. Lau is working hard to expand Wattpad beyond smartphones and the iPad to other e-reader platforms . Earlier this year , the company inked a deal with Sony Corp . to make some of the most popular Wattpad titles available on the technology giant 's popular Sony Reader digital book device .  Currently the site is supported by advertising , but Mr. Lau said Wattpad will experiment with other revenue models in the future .  " Advertising pays the bills , but it 's not the endgame for us , " he said .  " To paraphrase Twitter and Foursqure and all those guys , once you have a billion eyeballs , there are a million ways you can make money . I 'm not too concerned about it . "