What's a parent to do when teens want piercings or tattoos, and you ...
http://www.thestar.com/life/health_wellness/2010/07/26/whats_a_parent_to_do_when_teens_want_piercings_or_tattoos_and_youre_opposed.html

negotiating when , and if , getting a tattoo or piercing with your teenage child has not only become more common , but complicated too .  a tattoo is seen at the back of a woman during the international tattoo convention in bogota june 5 , 2010 .  by:beth j. harpazthe associated press , published on mon jul 26 2010  new york , n.y . -- one day your kid wants a new bike . the next day , a new cellphone . before you know it , your little darling is as tall as you are , demanding pierced ears or even a tattoo .  pierced ears , you say , what 's the big deal ? in some cultures , girls get earrings as infants . but how do you feel about pierced ears for a boy ? or five holes in one ear for a girl ?  as for tattoos , these statistics might surprise you : 22 per cent of women and 26 per cent of men said they had tattoos in a 2004 survey published in the are higher among young adults : tattoos were reported by 36 per cent of 18- to 25-year-olds and 40 per cent of 26- to 40-year-olds in a pew research center survey from 2006 .  but among 41- to 65-year-olds -- the demographic most likely to have teenage children -- only 10 per cent reported having tattoos .  so how do parents of teens , most of whom probably do n't have body art or untraditional piercings themselves , cope with kids who want nothing more than to look like lebron james ? tattoos and earrings did n't hurt his job prospects , so can you really argue that nobody will hire your child because of a flower on the shoulder or a stud in one ear ?  shelley davis mielock , who works with colleges and corporations on dress codes as part of her image-consulting business in lansing , mich. , says parents should point out that tattoos and unusual piercings are still frowned upon in some industries and segments of corporate america . disney employees , for example , are not permitted to have visible tattoos . do n't know what your future holds , " said mielock . " i am not against tattoos or self-expression , but other people are going to form perceptions of you based on these things . i recommend if you 're going to get a tattoo , get it where you can cover it up . "  mielock has two tattoos but has not allowed her 17-year-old son to get one . " he argues that i am being a hypocrite , but this is a decision i made as an adult and i made it knowing the perception other people could have , " she said .  parents should also research state laws . some states prohibit minors from being tattooed altogether ; others permit minors to get tattoos only if they have parental permission or if a parent is present .  you might also point out that tattoos are not as easily discarded as video games or out-of-style shoes . j. kim wright told her daughter , then 15 and living in chapel hill , n.c. , that she could get a tattoo as soon as " she wanted betty boop for a few months . then tweety . she is now 26 and has no tattoos , " said wright .  kathy sussell , like many parents , made the argument that as long as her teenagers were dependent on her financially , they had to live by her rules . " it 's my house , " said sussell , of brooklyn , n.y . " if they needed to get pierced or tattooed , they could find another place to live . " her kids are now 20 and 23 , " and i think they are happy today not to have tattoos . "  but aside from rational reasons -- legalities , health , future careers -- experts say it 's also ok for parents to simply set limits based on what matters to them .  " i am not a believer in giving in to all kids ' demands , " said dr. fran walfish , a family psychotherapist in beverly hills , calif . " you say that the rules and practices are different in every family , a bummer , but this is what our family believes . "  she added that " nobody likes to be told what to do , or forced or over-controlled , so you need to say it clearly , but with empathy for how hard it is to be told what to do . "  maggie macaulay , a parent educator and parent coach who leads an organization called redirecting children 's behavior in south florida , also recommends setting reasonable limits while " side-stepping the power struggles when it comes to issues like this with teenagers . make it a discussion so it is n't laying down the law . "  you might ask your child why he or she is so interested in earrings or a tattoo . if you think you might agree to , say , pierced ears when the child is older , macaulay recommends saying , " i am not ready for you to do that now , " while promising to reconsider in six months or a year .  some parents have a more relaxed view . dianne sikel of phoenix ear pierced . " he 's now 10 and rarely wears ( an earring ) , but i do n't think it was a big deal , " she said . " it 's a tiny little hole . "  she feels a little differently about tattoos . she got one when she was 18 , and now , at age 41 , is considering getting it removed . " i do n't think tattoos are that big of a deal , but i am happy that he does n't have a permanent tattoo at 10 , " she said . " instead , we stock up on temporary tattoos like crazy . "  susan tordella of ayer , mass. , does n't approve of tattoos , but three of her four children -- now all young adults -- have them . " if they want a tattoo or piercing , they 're going to find a way to do it eventually , " said tordella , who writes a blog about parenting at raisingable.com .  she still thinks parents who are opposed to tattoos should let their 're underage and hope that if they do get one , it 's " in an obscure place . " but she added : " there are many worse things they can do to themselves besides piercings and tattoos -- which are not fatal , self-destructive or addictive , " she said . " do n't make it a big deal or power struggle . that will only make it more attractive . "