Buck 65 Talks 20 Odd Years EP Series, Gets Gentleman Reg to ...
http://exclaim.ca/music/article/buck_65_talks_i20_odd_years_i_ep_series_gets_gentleman_reg_to_help_cover_bronski_beat_on_next_instalment

in 2010 , canadian hip-hop icon buck 65 ( n ? e richard terfry ) is celebrating 20 years since his first proper release . to mark the occasion , he 's unveiling an ep series called 20 odd years , whereby he intends to release 20 new songs spread across five eps and embark on a 20-country tour . since starting the series earlier this year , terfry has released three eps : avant , distance and albuquerque . the next ep in the series is called cenotaph , and sees buck 65 collaborating with three distinct guests , including gentlemen reg , violinist emily wells and french pop star olivia ruiz .  perhaps the most interesting track on the release is buck 65 's cover of the bronski beat 's 1984 anthem " smalltown boy . " the track stemmed from buck 's early desire to include a cover song , and he made up a list of 75 track possibilities to choose from . to narrow it down , he tested audiences on some u.s. and european tour dates .  " i playlist , and then between songs i would play little clips of the songs , and i would explain to people that i wanted them to tell me which would be the most awesome to cover . it really came as a surprise to me , but i found the song that was getting the biggest reaction was ' smalltown boy ' by bronski beat . everywhere i went , people would go nuts . i do n't know what that says about my audience , because it 's a song from the early ' 80s , which is probably before the time of a lot of people coming to my shows . "  with the song idea pegged , he had to find someone who could live up to the inimitable singing of bronski beat 's jimmy somerville . " his voice is so incredible , so i had to think of a singer that would fit right into that pocket . i thought about it for a while , and then i remember specifically the moment that gentleman reg popped into my head because it was a really he did n't hesitate . "  with reg carrying the chorus , buck decided that he 'd make the track his own by rapping over the verses without throwing out the original song . " i figured out a not-completely-faithful version of the song and added some verses i wrote of my own while keeping the instrumental and chorus part of the song the same . it all came together beautifully , and reg just completely knocked it out of the park . it just gave me chills when i heard it . "  the ep series is a testament to the creative renewal buck 65 is having at this phase in his life . with a steady day job hosting cbc radio 2 's radio 2 drive , terfry has had less financial expectation from his musical endeavours .  " i feel like i 've kind of returned to the same thinking as where i started , just doing this because i have to and because i really love it , " he says of his creative process . " i always expected that a day would any more ... suddenly when the pressure was off the creative juices really started flowing and i went into the most prolific phase of my life . it was the most fun when i just got all thoughts of money out of my head , which was a combination of getting a job and the way the music business was going . "  once cenotaph is released on september 14 , terfry already has his fifth buck 65 ep far along in the process . though he 's hoping for another handful of big-name collaborators , he 'll only give us one so far : bucky award-winning singer and exclaim ! cover star hannah georgas . from there , he has mentioned that he 's considering a proper album this winter , which is expected to include a buck 65/gord downie collaboration .  still , the prospect of releasing eps indefinitely is equally alluring . " i 'm starting to think now i would just keep going forever if i could . "