Guy Maddin Haunts the Lightbox With His Cinematic Spooks
http://torontoist.com/2010/09/guy_maddins_haunts_the_lightbox_with_his_cinematic_spooks/

Guy Maddin Haunts the Lightbox With His Cinematic Spooks  Guy Maddin does n't harbour any particular resentment towards the Toronto International Film Festival for rejecting his first feature , 1988 's Tales From the Gimli Hospital . With the benefit of twenty-plus years of hindsight -- during which time Maddin has cemented his repute as one of Canada 's most important filmmakers -- the decision of the TIFF bigwigs may seem like some great slight . But you ca n't really hold it against them . It 's probably easy to regard an anachronistic 16mm film chock full of necrophilia , buttocks-grabbing contests , and fish-intestine hair conditioner as some bizarre midnight movie oddity , and not a calling card for a cinematic heavyweight . With the modest success of subsequent features such as Archangel and Careful , and the more immodest failure of 1997 's Shelly Duval -- starring faerie fantasia Twilight of the Ice Nymphs , Maddin proved himself more than just a flash in the pan cinematic curiosity . In 2000 , the festival commissioned Heart of the World , a six-minute ode Maddin 's " docu-fantasia " My Winnipeg with much-deserved Best Canadian Feature honours . Now Maddin 's back on TIFF 's stomping grounds with Hauntings I &amp; II , an installation commissioned for the TIFF Bell Lightbox as part of its Essential Cinema exhibition .  Recalling his project with Heart of the World , Hauntings has Maddin revisiting the styles of filmmakers he has long admired ( many long forgotten ) . A series of silent shorts , Hauntings constitutes Maddin 's unique imaginings of abandoned , lost , or otherwise forgotten films . It 's a clever complement to the Essential Cinema exhibition , allowing the Lightbox to showcase artifacts that have slipped through the creaky floorboards of cinema 's history . Maddin and TIFF now have what seems like an extremely healthy relationship , one that over the years blossomed , or at the very least congealed , into an exceptionally productive partnership . We 're all lucky that Guy Maddin is so willing to dust off the skeletons in his closet . And just as lucky that the big wheels at TIFF keep encouraging him to do new " talkie , " the skeletons rattling around in his closet , and the power of " ectoplasmic odours . " Torontoist : Last time we spoke you mentioned this idea of doing something where you remake lost films or forgotten films . So how did it go from being just this nascent idea to an installation commissioned by TIFF ? Guy Maddin : Well I 'd been thinking of doing for a long time . I 've been literally haunted by the idea that there are these really intriguing titles by some of my favourite filmmakers that I 'd never get to see , whether it 's because they 're lost for the time being , or permanently . I told myself years ago that the only way I 'd get to see any version of these is if I made the adaptation myself and watched it.Was n't your first commission for TIFF 2000 's The Heart of the World also a sort of a remake of a lost film ? It was my first wholehearted adaptation of a lost film , Abel Gance 's La fin du monde synopsis of it and decided to adapt it for my own purposes . I also adapted La Roue , also by Abel Gance , into a short film . Thinking it was lost , I made my own four-minute version . But it turns out it had n't been lost . It just was n't available on video . And it was recently released in a four-hour version . So you have my four-minute version and as well as the four-hour original . But these things were never attempted to be remakes ; they were just adaptations . The same way authors of the nineteenth century would do different versions of the same story .  It 's interesting when you say that you finally found La Roue on home video . Because a lot of times these " lost " films may be finished but just suppressed from release . Or they were projects that were abandoned . Or there were just rumours about a director working on a secret project . How did you choose which kinds of lost films you were interested in for Hauntings ? At first if a film really existed or not . But then , as I once described it to a friend , I became more generally interested in films with no known final resting place . It 's as if these films are condemned to wander the earth in limbo . Or they 're resting somewhere in un-consecrated ground . There 's something unholy about them . Then I started thinking of the aborted projects . There was Hitchcock 's famous The Blind Man , with Jimmy Stewart as the recipient of a pair of new eyeballs . And he would see the image of his donor 's murder in them . It was to culminate in a climax at Walt Disneyland , but Walt Disney called it off . I guess he did n't want the director of Psycho sullying his brand or using it for nefarious purposes . So I liked this idea of aborted projects . And then just unrealized ones . I like this idea of hope withering and dying on the vine . It 's kind of sad as well : kind of the Miss Havisham of film lumped them all together in a mass grave and then proceeded to exhume these lost , aborted , and unrealized projects.When you finally got around to putting the wheels in motion , which of these films did you exhume ? Well , I 'm working on a longer-term project with the American poet John Ashbury and the National Film Board to make over a thousand of these things . But for the Lightbox , Artistic Director Noah Cowan and I talked about how brand spankin ' new the place is , and how it was n't haunted by any film history or any ghosts yet . So I volunteered to haunt the joint . I sort of put on my curator 's hat and came up with my array of canonical and non-canonical titles that have haunted me over there years . So there 's a Mizoguchi , a von Sternberg , a Lang , an Alice Guy , an Oscar Micheaux : just filmmakers that have really intrigued me .  " We talked about how brand spankin ' new the place is , and how it was n't haunted I volunteered to haunt the joint . "  There 's so many more I would love to fit in . Ed Wood , you know , had so many lost films . Alas , Oscar Micheaux was often called " the black Ed Wood " and he made the cut because his films were so much more intriguing to me . There 's a lot of stuff about people " passing " for white in his films , and I like the idea of these films " passing " as something else entirely.Do you know about the rumoured Orson Welles Batman movie ? Think you 'll ever get around to that one ? No ! But I 'm always happy to take a suggestion . Orson was going to do a Batman picture ? Well it 's probably just a rumour or a hoax that has been circulating over the years . But anyway , the story goes that Orson Welles was going to do the first big screen , live-action Batman film . It 's entirely plausible . It seems like the kind of thing he 'd want to excuses not to finish anything.Well the story goes that it was nixed because he wanted to play Batman , and this was I think in the early 1960s , when he was n't exactly at his physical peak . No ! He was already fumbling through magic tricks on the Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts ! But forget Orson Welles . Did you bring this Hauntings project to TIFF , or did they approach you about it ? Well Noah Cowan approached me and asked me if I wanted to do some magic lantern shows , and I told him how I was thinking about this Hauntings project . And it turned out I could give myself a sneak preview of these pieces by doing a few for the Lightbox . It happened to work perfectly with what they were planning at the Lightbox . Noah and I just had a few back-and-forth conversations . It all came together fairly easily.As an installation , how are these films going to be screened ? The films all play in one room , all eleven of them . There 's no soundtrack , because , especially for the security guards . They 're mute ghosts ; scored by whatever sounds the city of Toronto brings.So you have a pretty healthy relationship with the festival ? It feels good right now . I do n't want to infuriate other filmmakers with boasts of what a great relationship we have , as if we 're some happily-married couple . But they 've been tremendously good for me and I 've liked working for them . I love commissions . I like deadlines and restrictions . I 've been happy to showcase my films at TIFF , always.Well did the festival not reject Tales From the Gimli Hospital way back in the day ? They did . But that was a long time ago . Current TIFF co-director Piers Handling was there , and current U of T film and women 's studies professor Kay Armatage , and Toronto Star film critic Geoff Pevere . I think those were the three on the selection committee . And I think it was Piers and Kay versus Geoff . But I 've since become great friends with all three of public even . He 's been very elegant about the whole thing.It looks like they 've more than made up for it . It 's like a revenge wet dream , having the festival 's most important power brokers apologizing to you in public . But I do n't need to hear it anymore . I love the guy now.And of course the festival commissioned Heart of the World , which many consider your masterpiece . It 's the one movie I 've ever made that turned out exactly as planned . That does n't usually happen with me . It happens with Stanley Kubrick maybe , but it does n't happen with me . Laughs . They 'd all turn out masterpieces if they turned out exactly as I planned them ! Do you think that 's a result of it being a short , or a commission ? Are you able to be more precise when you have to colour within these lines ? Things just fell into place . Sometimes I fall into a zone and find myself producing images that I 'm far luckier to get than making shorts and features . I just shot a talkie this summer , which I had n't done in a while.Is that Keyhole ? That 's right.There was a recent interview with Kevin McDonald where he mentioned it . He plays a sort of gangster in it . It 's a gangster picture in a haunted house . The film is my tribute to the Bowery boys , where spooks run wild . It has Jason Patric , Udo Kier , Isabella Rossellini , and Kevin McDonald . And a bunch of other dubious Winnipeggers and young Torontonians thrown into the mix.Do you have any skeletons rattling around in your closet ? Any projects that are haunting you and you 'd like to get back to work on ? Yeah , I put some of my own aborted and lost and unrealized projects right into the Hauntings shooting schedule . I figured that shooting them as four minute movies might be the only way they ever get done . It was fun to exercise these films from my own dusty drawers . And I did n't shoot them on film , are shot on digital ? They are . I had a lot of fun experimenting with different digital looks this summer . Plus it 's nice to be able to immediately see what you 've got right there , instead of sending it off to the lab for five terrifying days , waiting for something to come back only to be met with sweet depression and soul-crushing disappointment . I 'm kind of hooked on digital shooting now . But I 'll never throw away my Super 8 camera.It must be exciting to work with this new medium , after having so thoroughly tamed Super 8 and 16mm and all the other film formats . It 's great . All the happy and unhappy accidents that helped me to develop a style are starting all over again . Just when I stopped having accidents , I started having new ones based on abject ignorance . Like I did n't know you had to re-format a memory card when you switch it from one camera to another , and I 'd end up losing everything I shot.But eventually you work the kinks In the late ' 90s I learned too much , but enjoyed a renaissance when I un-learned everything in time for Heart of the World . But these Hauntings reflect that . They run four to ten minutes and some are very tightly edited and some are a lot looser , allowing each one to emit different ectoplasmic odours into the building.Guy Maddin 's Hauntings I is on display in the main gallery of the TIFF Bell Lightbox , which opened yesterday . Hauntings II is being projected on the north facade of the Lightbox from dusk ' til dawn until September 19 . Stills from Hauntings I &amp; II courtesy of TIFF.Want more TIFF 2010 ? Torontoist 's complete coverage of this year 's Toronto International Film Festival is all right here .