Recap: True Blood, season 3, episode 12 - 'Evil Is Going On'
http://news.nationalpost.com/arts/recap-true-blood-season-3-episode-12-evil-is-going-on

and we 're back . did you have fun over the labour day weekend ? i went to a fair and won a rooster crow counting contest and then ate a funnel cake the size of my head .  here we go ! the where , why , wuh ? of the third season of true blood , along with our hopes , predictions and wildest dreams for season 4 . ( yes , that alcide will finally get lucky . )  * eric has always been a badass , but this time , it 's personal . as he fries in the sunlight outside merlotte 's , handcuffed to russell , he learns that russell killed eric 's entire family because he needed goats for his werewolves . in today 's currency , that 's , like , well , a whole lot more goats . to recap : eric has been exacting revenge for 1,000 years over goats . so that viking crown was just a memento ? i 'm the same . after i 've stolen my goats ... godric ! finally all is love and forgiveness on the other side , even for goat thieves . who knows if that 's the last we 'll see of godric , but he looked pretty pouty when eric told him that godric had made him the way he was . from the start ? or from the point that he betrayed eric by giving himself to the sun ?  regardless , eric , refusing to allow russell any hope for peace in the afterlife , decides that russell should live with the grief of talbot 's true death a lot longer , maybe even go mad with nothing else to contemplate -- because he 'll be encased in cement for the next century . mwahahahaha ! personally , i love the idea . vampires already sleep in tight quarters , taking to under the soil when the need arises . but to think that there 's a vampire equivalent to a human being buried alive , only it 's really , really cozy . i can suspend my disbelief on this one . because when russell does rise from the rubble , he from here ? sookie does n't want to know him anymore , leaving him with one of the cleanest slates on the show , this after a great revenge story line and the knowledge that while he plays everyone like chess pieces , he would appear to be a man of his word .  * sookie learns that her blood is " vampire crack " and that bill ( at only 174 years old ? ) is the only vampire " alive " who has the tantric ability to keep himself from gorging on it . he vows to kill anyone who has ever tasted her .  the niftier part in all this is delivered by eric , who after a season of nudge , nudge , wink , wink , has finally tired of waiting for sookie to figure it on her own . and it 's gooood . bill was sent to bon temps to get closer to sookie so that queen sophie could walk in the sun again under the protection of faerie blood . and those nasty ol ' rattrays who tried to drain bill the living crap out of sookie , so much so that she had to feed on bill , making her his ? big ol ' set up ! sookie 's none too pleased to learn this , doubts bill 's love for her , blah , blah , they break up again , blah . sookie rescinds bill 's invitation into her home , only this time he clings to the door frame in the first of two unnecessary wire acts , the second coming later when bill tricks the queen ( or was it an undead mary poppins ? ) into stopping by for a fae cocktail , only to announce that he was just joshing and really plans to kill her . cue wire work and up they go . note : russell is scarier with only one fang .  not to undermine this development , it is a big plot point , especially for fans of the books . and it will be interesting to see how the bill and sookie story line moves forward from here in alan ball 's adaptation .  * sookie runs ( you totally thought she was going to bill , did n't you ? i may have yelled at the television . apologies to my neighbours . ) sookie says she 's never felt more alone , at which point claudine arrives to make it all better . there 's one particularly shirtless dude who always seems to be on the verge of a one-shot but never makes it into the frame . i 'm going to keep an eye out for him . sookie goes to the light . correction . sookie makes the light and joins claudine 's light and the whole lot of faeries ignite the darkness in a wash of more golden light and then -- poof -- they 're gone .  i have two concerns . this whole story line could be the show 's shark . and i wish it had been introduced just one episode earlier . if you 're a fan of the books , you know what i 'm on about . at present , the faeries are a little pastel for my taste . there 's a scene from the appear early in season 4 , if not in the first episode , that will establish more clearly what the show has yet to do so far , that faeries are n't just the pin ups of the supernatural world . they carry clout .  i 'm also always wary of answers that appear like miracles in one 's darkest hour . the show is littered with them , some which are much subtler , and manageable in a short season . jesus appearing to lafayette . crystal appearing to jason . the v vial that andy keeps hidden in his desk drawer . close encounters is not subtle . there 's nothing to do but wait and see . ( beyond this , the faeries should also be able to answer the question of what really killed sookie 's parents . )  * tara is riding the high of bacon grease , clearly thinking that there is such a thing as a normal life , when sam tells her that he 's a shifter . at this point , a pa played a practical joke on the writers line for something tara would actually say , and she goes running back to mama who is caught in flagrante delicto with the reverend . man , if this is the last time we 're going to see lettie mae i 'm going to have to take a moment . she 's so damaged . i just want to hug her all the time . she 's also the only person on this show to give poor rutina wesley a snowball 's chance in hell of performing a tara we can feel for . ( sam and lafayette are right up there , but consumed with their own issues . )  lettie mae feels finally that she 's on the ( delusional ) verge of happiness , and the abandonment is complete . lettie mae deserves happiness as much as anyone , but it 's come at the cost of having a relationship with her daughter who finally realizes that her mother will never provide a safe haven . tara will have to raise herself . symbolically , she pulls a " felicity , " cutting her hair into bouncier old car .  i was n't sure how i felt about the departure . sam did something similar at the end of last season when he left to find his birth family . so where 's tara off to ? was this intended to keep us wondering ? was rutina 's contract up for renegotiation ? i was a bit dissatisfied with her awakening . what happened to that whole rape survivor story line ? it 's a bit too reminiscent of lafayette being messed up for a few episodes after being chained up by eric and forced to sell v. but now we 're good ! it 's one of my biggest criticisms about a show that evokes real life terrors only to sweep them under the carpet .  * which brings us to jason , unofficial mayor of hotshot . crystal 's ex kidnaps her . rather than chase after her , crystal convinces jason that his new lot in life is to protect the residents of hotshot , clearly in need of baths , clothing , education and a toothbrush . oh , we laugh . forgotten . me ? i like this arc of jason growing up before our eyes , from a boy who believes the world exists for him to a man who knows that heroism often means making room in your life for those who need a place in which to recover . high hopes for this story line .  * unfortunately , i do n't have the same hopes for sam . tommy 's a thief and he ca n't read and he 's probably going to be a f -- up for most of his life . but the kid ai n't stupid . and sam seems hell bent on punishing him for the wrong things . for the entire season , tommy narrated perfectly the very thing that keeps others from going after what they want in life . tommy have have more teeth than the folks in hotshot , but he 's just as downtrodden . ( let 's not forget , his parents pimped him out to dog fights . ) all to say , sam , do n't shoot the kid ! that 's all he ca n't read and i 'm bleeding out ! you 're the worst brother ever ! " or , was it one those really well-placed " warning " shots that landed smack dab in the bag of money , a symbol that money ca n't buy happiness , blah , blah , he ai n't heavy , he 's my brother , blah ?  * finally , lafayette , plagued by bloody images , evil ghosts and the terrorized inner monologues of his co-workers , learns that jesus is a witch . but , hey , that 's cool ! lafayette is the luckiest guy alive . his boyfriend is a witch and a dude ! what was that about ? should n't lafayette being freaking out ? " aww , hells , no ! get your witchy ass up on out of my kitchen ! " i ca n't say i have a good feeling about what comes next for lafayette . maybe if holly had been in this episode to provide some balance ? still , i 'm all in favour of anything that gives us more lafayette close encounters vision off the top of the show . is she a faerie or an alien ?  * sookie 's giggle , the only thing that could have distracted me from talbot 's remains going down the drain . is this the darker side of sookie ? a nod to the fact that faeries can be pushed too far ? let 's hope so .  * in a way , terry sticks out like a sore thumb on this show . but i love him , love him , love him . he reacts to joy the way most would react to sheer pain . he 's our touchstone , a reminder that just in case we want to empathize a little too closely with some of the characters , if you 've got a job , your health , and family and friends , well that 's a pretty damn good start .  * hoyt and jessica find a cute little bungalow with tidy hole for jess to sleep in . oh , but there 's a creepy doll in the next room , and hoyt that 's how you create tension in a finale . unfortunately , it did n't have to be these characters . just the fact that they 're seemingly solid would have been finale enough for this die-hard romantic . ( team hoyt and jessica ! )  * alcide 's debt is officially paid to eric . let 's get it on ! ( yep . that 's all i want for christmas . he can hump a tree , for all i care . let 's get alcide some acshun ! )  * nan flanagan offers up another gem , that you do n't throw the baby out with the bath water . one bad vampire should not be a call to kill all vampires any more than one osama bin laden should be a call to kill all humans .  * jason and andy 's difference in opinion of right and wrong . just keep these two together . they work off each other so well . and if andy goes down the red-bricked v road , jason will know a thing or two about getting him 's giggle .  andy : you just rationalized away all need for law enforcement . jason : i do n't know what that means exactly , but you 've got to stop those government people out there .  sookie : i feel better protecting myself , now that i know i am basically vampire crack .  russell : upon learning that he 'll likely be encased in cement for a long , long time 100 years ! that 's nothing to me . that 's a nap !  lafayette : to jesus you 're a witch who 's a nurse who 's a dude .  jason : sometimes the right thing to do is the wrong thing . i know i did the right thing .  sookie : to russell steppin ' around the fact that your word 's worth about as much as tits on a turtle ...  eric : to bill and alcide well , if you two have finished eye f -- ing each other , can we go ?  hotshot resident : here you go , uncle daddy calvin of true blood . i can criticize , but it 's only cause i loves ya !