James: Mississauga needs watchdog 'group of seven'
http://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2010/10/21/royson_james_mississauga_needs_watchdog_group_of_seven.html

hazel mccallion has n't campaigned this hard in decades , if ever . but the matriarch of mississauga is n't rustling up votes to deliver her 12th straight term as mayor ; rather , she 's working to defeat the only shadow of opposition she 's had during a 32-year reign : a pesky group of seven led by carolyn parrish .  if mccallion succeeds , it will be a huge blow to democracy and a boon to the self-importance , greed and entitlement that has now come to roost in the mayor 's office .  voters should reject this petulant , self-serving bid from their mayor . residents do n't " put mississauga first " by populating city council with a company of compliant yes-men and -women .  just what are the sins of nando iaannica , george carlson , carmen corbasson , sue mcfadden , frank dale , eve adams and parrish ? they dared to challenge mccallion 's right to ignore all conventions of conflict of interest and promote a lucrative development project fronted by her son on lands near city to probe how the pension fund giant omers managed to get a veto power over the city-owned hydro utility , even though omers was a minority shareholder ; and how this veto clause was inserted without council approval ; and how the mayor signed this clause , contrary to the document council approved .  to spend one day at the mississauga inquiry , listening to mccallion and her real estate broker son , peter , testify and obfuscate and skate around clear answers to clear questions is to know the " group of seven " should be applauded .  it is they , not mccallion 's cowardly backers such as katie mahoney , pat saito and patricia mullen , who should be re-elected and given the keys to preserving the city 's good name .  it 's a waste of paper and ink to advocate that voters turf mccallion for one of her 10 challengers -- though there are capable replacements among them , such as dave cook . what bears saying , though , is that mccallion is totally misguided in her attempts to neuter the very thing mississauga needs is a compliant , boot-licking , submissive council of followers -- not now , in the twilight of mccallion 's career ; not at a time when new ideas and visions should begin to surface and define the next 30 years ; not when there is mounting evidence that hazel 's one-person regime had significant flaws .  mccallion 's rule has been good for mississauga . but the judicial inquiry will probably conclude that it came at a price . hazel refuses to see that public interest and private interest must be separate .  she fails to separate friends and social buddies and dinner partners and developers . she mixes business with pleasure . she runs interference for and negotiates business extensions for her son 's company -- all in the name of what 's good for mississauga . and the said company just happens to be the only one that has never had to pay up-front development fees ( $440,000 ) for the massive project it once planned as it began making its way through city hall .  " i started opening lids on is the way parrish explains her leadership in search of transparency at city hall .  it 's not surprising that the old guard wants to hold on to the ways of the past . they benefitted greatly by hanging on to hazel 's skirt . she 's taken good care of her friends . an example :  the city 's utility , enersource , had two city councillors and a number of citizens on the board . unlike toronto hydro , where city councillors do n't get extra pay to serve as board members , mississauga 's two politicians drew in an average $47,500 in compensation . that is above what was already among the highest compensation for city councillors in the country .  there 's more . the city manager also pocketed $38,000 -- on top of the six-figure city salary -- to sit on enersource one tuesday afternoon a month .  the problems started when parrish tried to end this practice , only to have omers inform the elected officials that the company , not the elected officials , controlled the salaries .  how city manager and friend and confidant of the mayor -- who signed it but does n't know what she signed and claims not to know the veto existed -- is one subject of the inquiry . and rightly so .  embarrassed , mccallion tried to short-circuit plans to call the inquiry and failed . she has testified , but almost as a hostile witness , in her disarming and charming way of a powerful octogenarian . and now she wants to punish the councillors for seeking the truth .  it 's an odious initiative . mississaugans would be better off to quietly hold their nose , vote hazel in one last time , and overwhelmingly return a strong cadre of councillors who pledge to keep a careful watch on the mayor 's sunset years .  parrish is indispensable in that task .  royson james usually appears tuesday , thursday and saturday . email : rjames@thestar.ca