The Globe's endorsement for Mayor of Toronto
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-debate/editorials/the-globes-endorsement-for-mayor-of-toronto/article1215507/

toronto is a city suffering from structural problems that need to be overcome over the next mayor 's four-year term . the voters now have a choice between two flawed candidates , neither of whom has a convincing account of how he will bring about these changes ; a third does not accept the fact that the city is in any trouble .  at the editorial board  at the editorial board  rob ford 's standing in the polls is a loud and clear message from the citizens that all is not well - in particular that they are at the limit of their toleration for new taxes and tax increases . more than any other candidate , he has captured the mood of voters , who are frustrated , even angry .  toronto 's public finances are not sustainable . the city government can not borrow to finance its operating expenses . it can not reasonably impose more taxation on its residents and businesses . if current symptoms persist , its government wages and salaries may well rise by 20 per cent in can no longer be appeased . the affairs of the city of toronto can not be treated as if it were business as usual . they can not be fixed by attrition , by the mere passage of time , or by restraining new spending , or cutting here and there .  there is a special problem in the arbitration awards for the essential services of police and firefighters . their increases are considerably in excess of cost-of-living increases . rocco rossi , a preferable candidate who has now withdrawn , has suggested a change to " criteria-based arbitration , " which might require new provincial legislation . in any case , the next mayor must confront this uphill challenge . george smitherman has shown no inclination to do so . as for mr. ford , in spite of his professed fiscal conservatism , he has expressed no concern about the police and fire budgets .  mr. ford has been a good city councillor for 10 years . he has delivered tangible improvements to his ward , he has been remarkably responsive to his constituents , and he stands his small-scale , grassroots virtues are not enough by themselves to solve the ills of a huge metropolis ; he is a retail politician . moreover , he is an instinctual person , lacking in analysis , and his plans have gaps and inconsistencies . his propensity to impetuous words and deeds could be embarrassing and possibly harmful to toronto . nonetheless , the surge in support for a man with these characteristics , in a sophisticated , cosmopolitan city , amounts to an extraordinary indictment of the status quo . it is a phenomenon that all toronto 's politicians must take seriously ; mr. smitherman has already repositioned himself , shifting on the ideological spectrum from where he probably would like to be .  where mr. ford is unrealistic , mr. smitherman is vague . the risk in supporting mr. ford is what he might do as mayor , the risk in supporting mr. smitherman is what he might not do . the latter of the two has failed to articulate a vision or a strategy of his own , and he could easily end up as a second , openly promises to be . still , mr. smitherman understands the complexities of multi-tiered government . in the provincial cabinet , he brought no structural change to the health budget - a monster that needed to be wrestled to the ground - though he effectively executed the tasks that premier dalton mcguinty assigned him . he is essentially a professional politician , an office-seeker with a taste for managing , but not for transformation .  between elections , the mayor of toronto must work with three constituencies : the provincial government , the city councillors and the unions . mr. ford is likely to be at odds with all three - unless he wins by such an impressive margin that mr. mcguinty finds it necessary to accommodate him as a de facto opposition leader in ontario .  mr. smitherman knows his way well around queen 's park and the liberal party that is currently in power there . he understands the dynamics of politics as well as of government , and would be better than mr. ford at balancing and cajoling the various elements on city council , probably appease the unions and seek compromises with them . he should n't . if an unmistakable fiscal crisis breaks out , the aggressive side of his volatile personality may come in handy , at the eleventh hour .  mr. ford and mr. smitherman have similarly unpersuasive and unsatisfactory platforms . in the end , mr. smitherman 's ability to get things done makes him the better candidate ; torontonians may have to live in hope that he tries to do the right things , and that he comes to see the city 's financial predicament as the fight of his life . the electors of toronto should guardedly opt for george smitherman .  join editorial board editor john geiger for an online discussion about this editorial , friday at 2 pm et , here .